ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39823	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session. On the agenda - Final draft law amending the Law on the basis of public service pay, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 425 The Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, Labour and Social Partnership, Finance and the State Budget, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Miljenko Pavlakovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39824	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you have before you the draft law amending the Law on the founding of wages in public services. The public service pay base law in March 2009 was amended in a way that the current way of determining the base of pay in public services in such a way that it is no longer regulated by a collective contract but is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special decision. The change, way, was necessary in order to preserve jobs and full employment in public services during the period of economic and financial recession in order to preserve social and existential security from fiscal sustainability. In the meantime, the social partners or the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the civil service trade unions reached agreement on 13 May 2009 on the conclusion of an agreement on the basis of public service pay, which entered into force on 12 June, was defined as the basis for public service wages, in the future, by collective agreement, i.e. by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Public Service Trade Union. And if the agreement is not reached through the negotiations, then it shall determine the Government by its special decision. This law, based on the agreement reached by the social partners, regulates the way in which pay is established in public services, which is primarily determined by the negotiations of the social partners. And unless the agreement is reached by now, the economic and fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia will determine the basis for public service pay for next year by a special decision from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, due to the importance of the matter of the financial capacity of the state and to the preservation of social and existential security both at the time of the economic and financial recession and in the long term, it proposes the adoption of the proposed law by emergency procedure. We have received an amendment from the esteemed representative of Mr Kunst, who is also president of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, and on behalf of the Government, we accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39825	Thank you. Legislative Committee, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 72nd session held on 22 September 2009, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the basis of salaries in public services with the Final Proposal for the Law, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 30 July 2009. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. And thirdly, there are no objections to the text of the final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39827	Thank you. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, chairman of the Committee, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39828	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. At the 29th session held on 30 September this year, the Labour and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the basis of salaries in public services with the Final Proposal for the Law. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 75. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening explanation of the proposing representatives, she pointed out that the aim of these amendments to the laws is to align with the agreement reached between the social partners and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the debate, the committee members supported the adoption of this law, since the basis of the salary will be determined primarily by the negotiations of the social partners. In the debate, the Committee proposed that the deadline for agreement between the social partners should be extended until the adoption of the state budget for the following year, so that the Committee proposed an amendment to Article 2 of the Law in a way that allows social partners to negotiate until the adoption of the state budget for the coming year instead of adopting guidelines for economic and fiscal policy, extending the deadline for reaching the agreement. The proposed amendment was agreed by the proposer's representative at the Committee's meeting. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law amending the Law on the basis of public service wages, with the following amendment to Article 3. In the amended article, the words "economic and fiscal policy guidelines" are replaced by the words of the state budget. An explanation as I have said to the proposed amendment extends the deadline within which the social partners can reach a pay base agreement in public services since the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy rather than the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy precede the adoption of the state budget. Like I said, there's more time for negotiations and pay base arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39829	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, chairman of the board, Mr Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 40th session held on 30 September 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending the Law on the basis of salaries in public services with the Final Proposal for the Law as an interested working body. After the debate, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the basis of public service wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39831	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39832	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the founding of salaries in public services. The public service pay base law applicable from 1 April of this year provides for amendments relating to the current way of determining the base of pay in public services. Instead of establishing the basis of the collective agreement, it was proposed that the basis for public service wages should be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special decision, with the fact that the application of the proposed law is limited to a period of two years from the date of its entry into force. The priority objective of the proposed law was to preserve all jobs and full employment in public services as well as to preserve social security and fiscal sustainability during the period of the economic and financial crisis. The collective agreement, signed under better economic conditions, also guaranteed an increase in pay base. Due to the growing economic crisis that hit Croatia, the government had to withdraw certain measures that were not popular, and which preserved social security and jobs. For these reasons, the government returned the pay base in public services to last year's level, and the other benefits of the collective agreement continued to be paid. On 13 May this year, the government and public service trade unions reached an agreement on the conclusion of an addendum to a public service pay base agreement that primarily determines the collective contract between the government and the public service union, and in the event that no agreement is reached through negotiations, then the basis for the government's salary is determined by a special decision. In order to comply with the agreement agreement between the social partners, it is necessary to adopt a Law amending the Law on the basis of public service pay. What is important to stress and what is changing is that these amendments to the laws will regulate the way in which the pay base is determined in public services in accordance with the negotiations of the social partners, and if the agreement is not reached until the economic and fiscal policy guidelines are reached, and since the amendment of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership has been adopted, so until the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is adopted for the following year, then the basis for public service wages will be determined by a special decision by the Government. It also abolishes the period of validity of the basic salary Act, which was adopted for a period of two years, because there is no longer a need to apply it only for a period of two years. On the basis of all this, but also for the reason that this law will actually have a very positive effect on improving social dialogue, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club fully supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the basics of pay in public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39833	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39834	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia has recently faced the consequences of the economic crisis. Part of the experts say that the global crisis has spread across our borders and has also affected Croatia. And the second part claims, the same economic experts, that Croatia has hit the crisis without the impact of the global economic crisis, since there are a whole series of elements for it. No matter which of these two points is correct, the fact remains that there are difficulties in the economy and business that we have to solve, and until this happens faced with various negative trends. The Croatian Employment Service data show that 1% of more unemployed persons were recorded at the end of August than a month ago. On the trail of such data and the negative trends that prevailed over our country, the Croatian Parliament adopted a law in March this year that stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines the basics of salaries for public service employees. The law was passed as part of anti-recession measures during 2009 with the intention of affecting expenditure cuts. The analysis has shown that the same or similar savings can be achieved, but also with greater impact on business, by rationalising some other expenditure on employees. Therefore, after the calculations were carried out and the agreed positions of the social partners were reached, it was concluded that it was more productive to adhere to a model that is based on public service wages determined by a collective contract concluded between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the public service union. Of course, the appropriate labour price is the starting point provided by satisfied public service employees, which was nevertheless not achieved by the predetermined provision. Therefore, an agreement has been reached on the conclusion of an agreement on the basis of pay in public services between the social partners and is in line with real economic conditions and opportunities. The agreement said that salaries in public services would be determined by the collective contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the public service union. Therefore, the basic issue to be regulated by this law is how to determine the basis of the salary in public services to be determined by the agreement of the social partners, and unless the agreement is reached by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a special decision on the economic and fiscal policies of the Republic of Croatia for the next year. We have now heard that the Government and accepts this amendment, so this changes until the state budget is adopted. Public services are an important element in the functioning of every country, including ours. With careful and thoughtful investment, both in the selection of quality personnel and in the appropriate price of public service employees and in allowing other life-important issues to be resolved, the state invests in its important link in the future. Despite the justified need for everyone to participate equally in solving the problem, i.e. they bear the consequences of the economic crisis, in our conditions where the salaries of public and civil servants lag behind the cost of living for many years. It is necessary to correct this injustice in the context of a possible correction. We are witnessing that young, professional, educated people leave in public and state services for several years because of low incomes, slow progress and the inability to resolve housing issues. Therefore, in the club HSS, we believe that despite the reduced inflow of funds into the Republic of Croatia's budget and the economic downturn recorded, we must make it possible for employees to pay an acceptable salary. Because of all of us, our priority must be the satisfaction and decent lives of employees, which are achieved by ensuring adequate pay for invested work. Adequate pay is considered the amount of money an employee can pay for real life for himself and family members. Ensuring decent salaries among employees creates a positive atmosphere, resulting in their willingness to make more effort and efforts to carry out day-to-day business obligations. Motivation of people is an important factor in doing business and optimal pay is certainly one of the best motives. It is said that Croatia is a rich country according to its natural predisposition, it is up to all of us to organize it so that it can be a country of happy and satisfied people. The HSS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39835	Thank you. Club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39836	Your Honor, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, honourable MPs. YES Croatia is a rich country and Croatia can be a happy country, but what Croatia really is then on today. The number of employees is about a million and a half, the number of pensioners a million 148, unemployed by the end of the year 280, 290 thousand, and the number of us who are on the budget somewhere counting local self-government, about 280 thousand. Which is the country with the highest tax burden, the largest number of parafiscal burdens from absurd separations for the Chamber of Commerce, ZAMP etc. We have public companies acting as self-services, the union movement is inert, we're a common state, it turns out that in this country it's a fool who works etc. The particular problem that is ahead of us so that we can be a happy country to relate to my colleague will be shipbuilding and I think we can expect bankruptcy for three major Croatian shipyards. The oil company, the Queen's special machine factory, will get away with it, and this is something else even God doesn't know what's going to happen. On page 3 of this Legislative Proposal, it is given under point 3 of the evaluation and the resources necessary to implement the law. It says here that the implementation of the proposed law does not require the provision of additional funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. So we can freely conclude that pay for all those who work in the public service in 2010 will certainly be less than greater. Why I started with the Croatian Economic Community, because Article 2 of this material literally states, "That the basis of public service wages is determined by a collective contract concluded between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Public Service Trade Unions, and if the collective contract is not signed until the adoption of guidelines of the Economic Fiscal Policy of the Republic of Croatia for the coming year, the basis of the pay in public services shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia". So here is the emphasis on the adoption of guidelines for the economic and fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia for the coming year 2010. Guidelines, I doubt it, I don't know if they're doing what's up with them, and what's going to stand there right now is actually none of us know, but we know that probably what's going to be there is going to be realized whether it's shipbuilding, textile industry, wood industry, trade, big chains, etc. So we're all going to be worse, everyone in the public service is going to be worse, and there's no way that the next year's salary is going up. So the government's salary, the health care, the military, the social, the police, will certainly fall in 2010. Now the question is, who brought us into this, I'm not going to politicize here for a pay phone, government, politics, we're going to be easy, but what our public service employees are not going to be easy with is with salaries that are definitely going to go down throughout 2010 and they're not going to grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39837	Thank you. The individual debate of Mrs. Agent Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39838	Thank you, Mr. President, dear secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The SDP Club and I personally support this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the basis of pay in public services, but with one note we see that the Labour Committee has submitted this amendment which rightly damages that it was not immediately found in the draft law as agreed with the social partners, i.e. With a union of state and public services. In fact, for a long time, this bill was born even though the union agreement had been reached, they were promised. However, only on their pressure and on their particular insistence and when noise and halabuke rose around it then we received a bill of law. However, not again in the sense of the agreement. What's he saying? He says that the government at the beginning does not respect everything it has agreed with the unions, but also by saying that the rights for no one are guaranteed but that they need to be fought for, and this time in this sense, the trade unions of state and public officials have done so. That they were not resilient, when they saw such a bill, or another draft that was sent to us as the Bill's proposal, something that is controversial in this Bill Proposal, which is the provision of Article 2 which says that the base of pay will be determined by collective agreement but if it is not signed up to the guidelines that will then be determined by the Government. However, it is important for partners to edit the base when preparing the budget, which is in 10, 11 months about every year. Because if that is not the case if they were to be determined by the adoption of guidelines and they are usually in the 5th, 6th month then, for a reason, the finance minister who would then receive them would have said all this is fine but wait for a new budget so no funds are provided, or so is not a complex budget. But that's how you see it in Article 2. Article 2 which the Government has sent to us and what the Prime Minister has signed is not on the trail of what was agreed and followed by 22. The 9th trade unions sent the Prime Minister's letter, and this letter apparently resulted in a moduso being found to correct what was agreed on, i.e. Here's the amendment he wrote and the amendment was voted upon. I believe we'll all be acclaiming him here and accept him as the trade unions have agreed. It is also controversial if there is no agreement that the foundation is then determined by the government, the unions have never agreed to it. Therefore, only in the light of this Law, where this agreement is always glorified and stresses that a good one dialogue is a good one, but the same positive results resulting from such a dialogue must then be adequate, so such an explanation must then be found in the bill's proposal, then later in the Law, because this is the case in a certain way in our proposal for the Law. But I believe that by voting that amendment, the matter will be fixed. However, when it comes to the salaries of workers, in this particular case, in this particular case of pay base in public services and in general about wages on different salaries, on official salaries, we must never miss something that is happening again in Croatia that we have a monster of unpaid salaries. Just like we have this case of Rada Buljujasic who didn't work, and he got paid. We have a monster situation where workers work and don't get paid. Such a monster ruled in the '90s. The 2002 announcement itself, when the grand novels of criminal law that we had both economic incrimination and the extension of an age-old period of 30, 40 years, were being done, because there was the foundation of everything, all corruption, in economic crime, and not in those additional incriminations, but which then also impoverished workers, which is why it is connected. That's where we had no pay as a felony. So, employers listened well to what was happening in our law, in our legislative activity, and were already announcing that an employer who did not pay unwarranted wages would go to prison. Drastically, if we follow the statistics a little bit, you'll see by the chart that the number of non-paying employers has dropped drastically. There's not one of us here, I mean no man, not here, but anywhere, a common sense that won't say that failure to pay is a first-class employee's crime, fraud, robbery, theft, whatever you want. And it must have its proper sanctions. These are dangerous social behaviors. It's not some slow-talking, even in a world where it's impossible for an employer to pay a worker's salary. It might be potentially controversial what she is for a certain period. That in us, especially in these times of crisis, those who hunt in the dim come back on their own. That's why the SDP club has re-repeated the thing, for the third time proposed to the government, it's an emergency and it's first and foremost when there's no recession, when all flowers, it's the foundation of justice in society, to pay for it. Because if there's no such thing, if it's possible to play it, then anything is possible. This leads to catastrophic erosion and business and civic morality of the fastest kind, but the government is sending us an opinion. Here, let me read it to you. Often changing criminal law and in this respect would lead to legal uncertainty. Whose legal uncertainty, please? Thieves and criminals who on the back of those who have earned their bread honestly won't pay them. I believe that, after all, it was a small administrative mistake, that it would be corrected as soon as possible. After all, it would relieve both the state and its funds, especially those social ones that really belong to those who need it. I don't know who the state is protecting. I think maybe there was still one wrong phone, a deaf phone, maybe there was some measure of strength there, would we give you a break? Let that be the government's proposal, we'll support it, we won't even mention it was our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39839	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39840	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, secretaries, fellow MPs, and I would like to fully agree most of the debate between my colleague Anticevic-Marinovic, but as regards this proposed Law amending the Law on Fundamentals pays that this basis of public service wages will be determined in a way that will primarily be followed by negotiations which will later be established in collective agreements, I think it is acceptable for all of us and that no one here, no one, has anything against supporting such proposed changes. However, I must stress one thing and remind myself that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made this decision, which now changes normally on 27 March 2009 that the base of pay for approximately 180 thousand public service employees, means 180 thousand employees, determines by a special decision at one point when they are really, when the government has been pressed and I still think that it is, unfavourable economic movements. But we must stress one important fact here that yet the government has made such a decision and such an agreement in agreement with the Public Service Trade Unions. So she never made such a decision without them, she didn't break a collective contract, meaning a basic collective contract, but in agreement with the social partners she found a solution to how to preserve the jobs of public servants and how to keep paying those people who work today in public services, which I think is for every praise. And just this, these changes, I think it's okay that fellow Anticevic said they're on the verge of an agreement because then a deal was reached with the trade unions that at the moment when the circumstances would be such that they could return to that meaning starting position, that the basis of the public service salary continues to be determined primarily, by the social partners' negotiations and by a collective contract, and the government has fulfilled it. And that is a promise she has fulfilled towards the unions and social partners, and in this way I think she has sent a clear message to other social partners that she will primarily respect social dialogue and respect what she will achieve through social dialogue, or social partnership. As far as this amendment is concerned, I don't think there's much science to be made out of. I think it's logical to negotiate for wages, meaning for the basis of public service wages to lead to the actual adoption of the state budget because it is something later than the economic and fiscal policy guidelines are adopted in the current year. And that is why the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, on my proposal, accepted it, and here I am glad that the Proposer has also shown great understanding and accepted this amendment. As regards the adoption of these amendments to the law, there is no longer any reason in this sense for the Law on the basis of the pay in public services to impose a time limit on the value of the pay base. This was the agreement, so there is no longer any reason to limit the time of validity of the pay base, and it is logical precisely because the social partners will in future negotiate and negotiate the basic salary and normal time to which it will apply and the time from when it will apply. It will all be prescribed by the collective agreement itself. So that provision in this agreement that was previously concluded with the trade unions, I say at a partner level of government and public service unions, has its logic. So I don't see any reason at all for some big debate and I don't see any reason why any representative in this House would not support this amendment to the Law on the basis of public service wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39841	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final review, State Secretary Miljenko Pavlakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here's just a few words at the end. I think that precisely this amendment to the Law on the basis of pay in public services, we once again show that this Government of the Republic of Croatia is certainly ready for social dialogue with all partners and that exactly what is said to be done by the Government and fulfils all its obligations to what is agreed. I think it is the greatest positive in this short law, that we have respected both trade unions and employers in this way, and a clear and complete Croatian citizenship that works in public and state services. When we talk about the 2010 funds, clearly with this amendment that we have accepted the possibility of negotiating, the negotiations must be extended there to 11.12 months, i.e. to the adoption of the state budget. So once again, I thank you for supporting this law, which is the product of social partners' dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39843	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39844	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the basis of pay in public services, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 425, Proposer of the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment and did not vote on it because it became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on the basis of public service wages. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill was adopted by a majority of 94 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39845	We're moving on to the next point. - Proposal for a law on the State Commission to control public procurement procedures, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 429 The bill promoter is the Government. When setting the agenda, the government gave up an emergency procedure, so that this legislative proposal will be discussed in the regular procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, European Integration and the Economy. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship Tamara Obradović Mazal will further explain the proposal. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, in our first reading, we propose a draft law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The need for an amendment, i.e. the need to define a new bill, originates in at least two circumstances. The first is the subsequent additional harmonisation in the segments relating to the very legal property of the European Union with the last Remedies Directive, the Directive in legal protection procedures issued by the European Union a year ago. And the second circumstance, i.e. the second need to change, or to refer the new law to the procedure, is the whole system of public procurement, which rests on two common denominators. The public procurement system includes classical public procurement, public procurement procedures as we know by the Public Procurement Act, but a higher level of legal gain and what the legal logic of the European Union recognises as public procurement were also awarded concession procedures, as well as project design processes based on a public-private partnership. The procedureal start for both public procurement and concessions and for a public-private partnership is a public procurement process which is therefore a common starting point and for the classical procurement of concessions and for a public-private partnership. After that, each of the three procedures starts, I dare say, with my life. Concessions to their own, classical procurement of their own and public-private partnership during their course, depending on which model of public-private partnership it is. After that route, we come back to another common denominator that is kind of summed up at the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which is legal protection. After a certain procedure and award of concessions and public procurement contracts, as well as parts relating to a public-private partnership, the dissatisfied parties in the procedure must request, or must have the right and exercise that right to legal protection. In view of the fact that this start of a procurement contract, a concession contract, or a public-private project, is common through the procedure for the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, legal protection is also common. In this segment, this law should also be amended in a way that the State Commission can also act in legal protection procedures for the dissatisfied party, when it comes to contracts based on the Law on concessions and on contracts based on the Law on Public-private Partnership. Therefore, the State Commission for the Control of Procedures on how to obtain a purchase element, regardless of whether it is public procurement, concessions or a public-private partnership. Since it is the starting point of the common denominator, and it is the selection procedures or concessionaries or the private partner or tenderers in the public procurement system, the common teaching point, i.e. the final phase is exactly legal protection through the State Commission whose jurisdiction extends to these other two elements. In addition to this very important circumstances, we held that the trend itself in the public procurement system required that a further step in the normisation of the rights and obligations of the institution itself, therefore beyond this range of enlargement of competences, but also indicated the need in some way to ban the impact on the course and outcome of the proceedings being conducted before the State Commission, as well as stronger emphasis, or further steps in existing practice, which is the transparency of the decisions of the State Commission, namely the publication of decisions by the State Commission through an eyewitness and a register on their website www.dkom.hr, and that part of the publication of decisions by the State Commission within 5 days of decision making is also extended to decisions made in the proceedings of appeal relating to concessions or public private partnership. In addition, what needs to be complemented are the changes in the part relating to the very compensation for the conduct of the procedure, depending on the type of contract which is intended to be rejected by the statement of appeal. It ranges from 2 to 7.5 thousand kuna, of course depending on the estimates and value of the items of purchase. And in that part, unless a fee is paid which is also an integral part of the State budget then, such a complaint will be rejected as unlawful. Furthermore, in implementing the very harmonisation with the 2007 European Community Directive, which came into force a year ago, what was wanted by this bill is also to establish a further standard regarding the protection of the reputation and reputation of the state commission as well as of course a postulate that a Member of the State Commission as such must not perform any other duty, any other service, anything that could affect the quality and content of its work, let alone the outcome of the procedure before the State Commission. It also prohibits members of the State Commission from carrying out an economic, professional, other activity, having shares in a company, share in capital or business share, having management rights, decision-making rights, voting rights, being members of the Board or members of the Supervisory Board. Therefore, their professional work should be exclusively devoted to decision-making in proceedings before the state commission. And that this job is very demanding and very large speaking and unofficial latest statistics. In fact, as early as 2008 before the state commission, as many as 62% of complaints were made in relation to 2007 and by a number of yesterday's date, the state commission received a total of as many as a thousand 73 complaints this year, which for at least 50 more than the whole year was statistically speaking. So, and numericallysubstantially, in substance with the extension of jurisdiction, we also want through this law on adequate proposals of the norms to be the sole and maximum commitment of the members of the state commission to decision-making work in the proceedings before that body. It's not just about the figures on the lawsuits made, it's about high values. We speak at least for the past year of 30 billion kunas of the value of procurement only in the classic supply sector as we know it and 30 billion kuna is definitely a good reason for the maximum commitment of members of the state commission to work which, of course, ensures both the trust and the private and public partners that meet in front of the state commission. This bill has been debated before several committees, the remarks are really substantial, welcome, the work of this commission is important, it is public, it affects the way, the synergy between the business and the public sector and in order to have additional opportunities to improve further this law is suggested that it still goes into two readings so that all natural remarks in the debate will, in the first reading, be very welcome to improve the quality of this law and of course what we want and this is a good implementation in practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39847	Thank you. The Committee on Legislatives, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39848	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and, of course, supports the proposal to discuss this law in a regular parliamentary procedure, so in two readings. The text of the proposal is made by the Committee to make observations and proposals which are both principled and concrete in nature, in the first place, in view of the name of the law itself. It is apparent that this law, or the affairs of this State Commission, also applies to the procurement process but also to the award of concessions and procedures in a public private partnership, as well as to other matters when it is prescribed by law which is not reflected in the name of this law and in most of its provisions. It is necessary to bring the content of paragraphs 1 and 2 in line with Article 1 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. It is doubtful in Article 4 that the State body has a statute establishing the structure and mode of work but also the height of the salary. At the same time, it is not clear whether members of this state commission and state officials are. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 6 of this Article and any of the following, it is unnecessary and it is not consistent and it is not carried out to indicate the names and according to possible birth meanings, since no matter how they are written in any regulation must be interpreted as being equally legally related to male and female. If the Proposer wishes to and regulate it, it is sufficient to prescribe one provision within the general part of this law. It is also not clear whether employees are civil servants or not, in particular, in the light of the provisions of the latter articles, in particular Article 21, where those employees who carry out certain duties are appointed workers to whom labour regulations apply. There is no indication of the damage involved because the state commission does not enter into this regard in concrete legal relations. It is necessary, in Articles 7 and 10, to determine who designates the President, or his alternate, as well as in a transparent manner to establish the conditions for appointment because, for example, the conditions for a judge are not the same for certain types of courts. Articles 13, 14, and 19, for the abovementioned reasons, the defined Council does not show which or what kind of body, who makes it up or what jobs it can carry out. At the same time, it is not clear whether the majority in the decision-making process relates to most council members or to most members of the state commission themselves. It is also necessary to review the solutions in Articles 15 and 16 as regards legal expressions, the accuracy of the reasons set out for the resolution or the conditions for the termination of the duties of a member of the State Commission. It is also necessary to examine in principle whether it is a compensation for the conduct of appeal proceedings or for the compensation of the costs of that procedure. In particular, it is necessary to review the decision referred to in paragraph 5 which, if the applicant fails to pay or does not pay in advance, loses the right to legal protection within the time limit set out above, because it is provided that the appeal will be rejected and it is not permitted in those cases. Articles 22 to 27, in addition to the so far referred to in this provision, do not show what the internal structure of the State Commission is, as Article 4 will set out in the Statute, and these articles indicate a special secretariat, professional service, general affairs and other technical affairs. At the same time, the office, which also manages the cases, is particularly isolated. Furthermore, the solutions referred to in Article 27 in relation to Article 21(3) are incompatible because it does not show whether they are rights and obligations or official duties. In addition to the fact that all the provisions should be legally and unambiguously laid down, Article 28 does not show what kind of duty paragraph 3 is to be done, and in relation to the whole text of the proposal for a provision should be legally and nomotechnically processed, systematised and omitted by certain provisions which do not constitute the content of this law, e.g. Article 24 which tells us or discusses the position of the spokeswoman or spokeswoman in the State Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39849	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? The Economic Committee? I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HSS, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39850	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures was founded by the Law on Public Procurement of 2001 and established by the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures of 2003. According to the Public Procurement Act, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement procedures, prescribed by the Public Procurement Act, while the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures defines the formation and part-time of the State Commission. However, the Law on the State Commission on Public Procurement Control is extremely short. It contains only 13 articles that are primarily related to how the state commission is established and basic issues needed for the mere functioning of the state commission are addressed. The law therefore defines the establishment of a state commission, the appointment, the duration of the mandate and the resolution of the members of the state commission, the decision, the costs of the appeal procedure, reporting, financing and liability for damages. The adoption of the Law on concessions and the 2008 Public-private Partnership Act is also given to the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, specifically to control concessions and public-private partnerships, which calls for a clearer standard of the rights and obligations of the State Commission. Amendments to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures also provides for a strategy for the development of the public procurement system adopted in 2008. Of course, it is not necessary to circumvent the fact that the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is brought into line with European Union legislation. The proposal for a law that is before us detailedly regulates the structure of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, the appointment and duration of the mandate of the members of the State Commission and the procedures for resolving their obligations and rights, the decision-making of the State Commission, the obligation to submit reports on their work and other issues relevant to the normal functioning of the State Commission such as employee issues and the like. In particular, it is necessary to support the efforts made to increase the transparency of the work of the State Commission in such a way as to make all solutions made available to the general public by making full disclosures on the websites within 5 days of the knowledge that at least one party in the process has taken the solution. We also welcome the infringing provisions set out in this law that are really high-level punishable by one who tries to influence the decision of the state commission. However, we also consider it a failure to consider this law as a violation only an attempt to influence the decision-making of the state commission through means of public communication or public intervention when it is clear that the influences of such a species can be easily made by personal contact and therefore the members of the state commission should be obliged to report and to make such attempts. We also noted that this law allows the state commission to decide by its own statute on the level of wages. Since the activity of the state commission is financed exclusively from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, such freedom is at least questionable, although we are aware that the statute itself cannot practically apply if it does not have the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But it would be very bad to ask ourselves, after some time, whether a member of the state commission has more than a prime minister or a prime minister or a president of the state. Also, Article 14 lays down the rights of members and members of the State Commission, and we have a few questions. It is specifically about, for example, annual holidays of 30 days, permits and holidays, which are unclear formulations, and we hope that until the second reading will be clarified. Furthermore, there is also a question of the expert service of the State Commission consisting of advisers or advisers. According to all that can be read from the bill, it is evident that these people are actually doing the job of a member or a member of a state commission. In Article 22, counselors are working on a practically complete subject, members of the state commission then deliver a majority of votes solution at the session, publish it on the Internet, and their work is done. At the same time, the provisions of Article 6 have not only freed any liability for damages incurred in carrying out their duties, but it is transferred to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, another issue is the issue of the annual report. According to the proposed provision, the state commission is required only to substrate statistics. For example. the number of items received, the number of cases solved, the number of procurement procedures cancelled, the number of pending cases, etc. The members of the State Commission are not obliged to provide explanations, for example, in any word. Which is why some of these items aren't solved and so on. It should be noted that all of these issues that we have open questions, i.e. pending second reading and answers, do not comply with European Union legislation or do not relate to the compliance of these provisions that we have cited as potentially problematic. Article 31, too, is not defined in it means keeping the official secret, yes, but the question until when. In fact, it can be theoretically that man no longer works on the state commission. How long before he's obliged to keep that same secret that he came up with either by accident or at work? And in the end, one more sentence only. We've also heard from the State Secretary's report that the number of complaints is increasing from year to year, so I think it might be a signal. And since a lot of people here worked in local and regional self-government units to maybe reassess and part of it, certain parts of the public procurement process for all those who worked in local or regional self-government units, municipalities, cities and counties. We know for ourselves that the big problem has just been to respect everything dictated by the Public Procurement Act. So we think that if the number of cases continues, that is, the complaints will be growing and the state commission will have more and more work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39851	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39852	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Here, I'm talking about the number of discussions and earlier, and here I think it will be today just not so much about the Commission's structure to control public procurement procedures as much as there have been really heated and bile discussions about public procurement itself, then the issue of concessions and public-private partnerships. In fact, here in the text of the proposal for this law are the three elements covered, i.e. there has been an extension of the Commission's powers to control the procurement procedures exactly and with the control of concessions and the control of the public private partnership. My colleague who was here in the Parliament before he became Osijek-Baranja Mayor, Col. Šišljagic once said and repeated several times that he had just, were the public procurement processes of the public-private partnership and the award of concessions to one of the main sources and elements of corruption and crime in the Republic of Croatia. That it is best to bear witness to the affairs that I daily say to nothing like mushrooms after the rain and that are accompanied by the media. It should not be a great knower or some kind of system involving a man in politics, but simply to read the newspaper and to follow from that affair in connection with the construction of a sports hall in Osijek and the claims of 842 million kuna for a gym sport, and here is the hall in Osijek built for 250. No one answered, no one was called, no one pointed a finger where the 600 million kunas that would have been realized would have been realised in whose pocket they would have ended if Mr. Djapic's project had gone at the time and announced that the hall would cost 842 million kuna. Furthermore, there is still an ongoing affair in the purchase of military trucks. We see that there are some things to say, in some retarded procedure or what I would like to call a person I would not like to call so-called retards for the Croatian railways, so here's what happened that such procurement unfortunately ended with a fatal outcome due to the train accident at Solin, Split in that part. All of ours to tell the state-owned companies of the Croatian railways, of the HEP supplying electricity for 81 euros and selling for 21 euros without being in the electricity supply clause to secure some kind of fuse if the current on the world market is cheaper, that then whoever sells the electricity to HEP to lower that price. Unfortunately, it's as if we're some kind of ignorant, as if we're not, as if those who run that firm don't have any schools, so they don't know one item in a contract I'm talking about getting electricity can't put in one item. And not to mention Croatian river railways, Croatian highways, HEP, health institutions. We also have a report on the Health House in Split, etc. about the intransparent as you like to say it. Transparent means transparent in medicine, i.e. non-transparent procurement in local self-government units and in regional self-government units, and also mainly in public enterprises owned or majority owned by the Republic of Croatia. Now, we come to this commission, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, and then in this bill, the most talk is about the formation, the way of work, the payment of the State Commission, which my predecessor from the Croatian Peasant Party spoke about and studied very closely each of the articles of this law and whose comments are actually made and stand. The most interesting thing is that this commission is one of the many, 67 have, government commissions, agencies, offices, services, commissions, chambers, everything else. And clearly each of these numbers has at least 5 members, has administrative staff, has a vehicle available, etc. So this administration of ours is crawling with such commissions. But for this commission, there's a really solid and hard indication that it works, that it works, and if it really works the way it's meant by this letter of the law and how it's foreseen and how we'd like everyone here to work, then it's really necessary. I personally won't say it bothers, but one regrets saying in, that it is banned, every influence on the work of the state commission by participants in public procurement procedures is prohibited, and misdemeanor provisions are introduced for that behaviour. Well, can we even imagine someone trying to get the state commission to try to influence her? And in what sense is this intended, or written, and what effect is that? Is that just media, like my colleague just said? Is that direct contact? Or is there something third I wouldn't even want to guess about? What kind of influence can someone carry out on the state commission to control public procurement procedures? What can he do to influence the state commission? An individual or a legal person? It's not defined. But a lot of what comes out of it. So when it comes to the formation of the state commission then I see that the rule of five is applied, because that state commission has five members, they work for a period of five years, unless there are changes in composition and all five votes, or five hands must be in the air when they decide whether or not to. No abstentions. So it's written, it's so good that it's so, it can be true. Imagine that two and a half, two and a half, the result, but it must always be a clear result. In particular, we look forward to this bill, so in the first reading that is foreseen and hence the availability of decisions or solutions that the commission will issue and that availability to, therefore on the Internet, say five days from the day one of the parties, any one, gets that solution. I hope that this will be very experimental, and this five days from, therefore, from obtaining a solution from one of the interested parties is not the deadline until the party has to receive, or until the state commission has to draw up or make a decision on the appeal or representation of one of the stakeholders in the procedure, so either public procurement or public procurement, and sometimes it is a private-private partnership or in issuing a concession. That is why HDSSB and I are personally in favour of that indeed this state commission doing as we would all like, as these articles are foreseen here with certain changes that here and I say, I would not repeat them, because the colleague who spoke earlier stated them, in order to improve the text of the law, and in order for this Commission to control public procurement procedures, that is to say, to have one basis in it, and let us hope that it will be one of the supporters in, I will not say in the fight, but for reducing corruption and crime in the Croatian state and Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39853	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39854	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic presented in his presentation an example of how the Osijek Chamber should have been built according to the model of a public private partnership with an amount of 800 million kuna, and it was built for just over 200 million, or 240 million kuna per... So, since this was clearly about collecting grandmothers, frogs and satellites, I have to intervene and say that one is the price of the hall building, the other is the cost of using the hall with energy to maintain employees for the next 20 years, and the third is to restore parts of the hall. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] This model that has been applied, we are pleased in the city of Osijek that we have received the hall, but in the construction itself it has proved more expensive than the model that was originally intended, and the consequence is that, for example, the hall in Varazdin which would cost as much as the feeling, today there are numerous concerts, various cultural events and impact on the development of the city as a whole, and the feeling is now empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39855	Comrade Grubisic, you have raised a plate for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39856	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, according to Article 209, this is not a correction to the incorrect assumption, but it is the figure that I have stated is correct. But this is a replica, and a colleague of the Serbs is talking about the Varazdin Hall, so if a neighbor dies a cow, it means a cow in Osijek. It's his logic that he performs... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39857	You're wrong, you're wrong. You're not. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You claimed that the hall should have been built at one price and that it was built at a significantly lower price. And fellow Serbs explained that the hall was built, the one that was to be built, that there, there were amounts for depreciation, maintenance and everything else. The difference. ... Otherwise, we should all be very happy with that hall. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The government built it entirely with its resources. ... Yes, yes, Government. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] She's built it by means of budgets. The only hall that went out of the budget exclusively. It's nice to meet you. I've had the honor of opening that hall before the World Handball Championship. Mr. Representative Damir Cain, IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39858	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Madam Secretary of State, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Gentlemen of Osijek, if you had to build the hall with your own money, as the hall in Poreč was built, then you would have taken care of every kuna. But when the state pays, I don't care if it's 800 or 600 million kuna. The secretary of state just mentioned one piece of information that the state commission oversees public procurement at an annual level of around 30 billion kuna. If only 3.3% of that money is embezzled, and I'm sure that in this country, we can do more and more and then in a year it evaporates 1 billion kunas and so on every year. In 10 years, maybe 20 billion kuna. It is easy to say that individuals in Croatia are embezzled through public procurement every year, and those of us who have received the trust to steal on our behalf, means embezzlement of at least one Pelješki bridge, in 10 years I would almost dare say one highway from Zagreb to Split. We may not need the Peles Bridge, we don't need it right now, but we need a robbery of these funds for sure even less. Where's that money? Something revolves around Croatia, something through the offshore company in the world, but most of the money is with those who run public companies, actually their sons, wives, daughters, mistresses, come on, it's wrong, etc. State, I think at this point we need to explain another detail of where all these offshore companies are working with our companies, mainly these in public enterprises because it's one of the important money laundering mechanisms in this country. Mr. Representative Boro mentioned the hall earlier, such halls have everywhere from Istria to eastern Slavonia, from Dalmatia up to like, he mentioned trucks, stadiums, waterways, roads, HEP, shipyards can do so too, railway thresholds, and if you really alienate those 3.3% on an annual level and I know that it's certainly more, so daily in this country through public procurement you steal 3 million kuna and then you ask yourself what that state commission is doing. Perhaps the most recent example is what was happening in Croatia, only one thing worse than that abduction and the purchase of electricity for a billion kunas for 200 million kunas, which is that the leaders in the system have only made a little conspiracy and that in the future everything will remain the same, instead of both the Ant and the gentlemen of the Supervisory Board responding or better said that they have covered the damage with all their property. As regards this Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures here, the proposal means in its reasoning that the State Commission was founded by the Law on Public Procurement of 2001 and was established by the Law on the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure of the National Journal 117 of 2003 as an independent independent second-degree state body responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement procedures of the Republic of Croatia. I have the impression that all of these provisions, this final bill of law, are actually trying to keep the situation in place, not to say to set up an existing commission an existing job. Now let's do it in a row. Article 3 of the internal organisation, the level of pay, the way the state commission works, is determined by the statutes, so the statutes are adopted by them themselves. Why should they establish their own salary? It's simply inadmissible to me. Article 6 of the Members of the State Commission, as well as employees, shall not be liable for damage incurred in the course of their duties except in the event of intention or extreme negligence, so that they are not liable for damages such as the supervisory boards of Croatia's electricity business further. I personally think that we should answer politically, that we should respond materially to all our assets, that we should be responsible for this public abduction on the obvious of all of us and criminally. You gentlemen, and that provision is also missing in this final bill should also publish property cards because if abuse is possible, then it is with such commissions. And another thing I also want to say, it's my impression that all the time it's been working on that commission in a way to cover the government, why. Because they are either guaranteed an extension of “send. ” Establishment of the State Commission Article 7. The state commission is operating on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, clearly that is logical, but when we see what is happening in our embassies or popularly called casinos, consulates, etc., I think we should also do so. Article 15 here states that the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, may discharge the duties of a member of the State Commission before the end of the term of office if, even now, the term of office of five years is discussed. I think there should be a provision here that you must make your mandates available in the event of a change in government. So if there's an early election, if there's a new ruling team, I think we should put our mandate at your disposal and see what some future political furniture will do with you. I think that should also be installed behind point 6 of my amendment 7 and that you must resign in case the Croatian Parliament does not accept your report. I have the impression that you've written your own rules, and I also find that extremely inappropriate. Employees of the State Commission, etc. Let's start with the fact, I mentioned earlier, that in public services plus local self-government from doctors to cops, from the military there to the judicial staff, from parliamentary representatives to the president of the state, from teachers, teachers, and all the way there to the doctor is 288 thousand people. I have the impression that these provisions, 21st, 22rd, 23rd also lead to an outbreak of the administration. For example, I quote the number of employees to carry out the professional range of jobs, description of jobs, work assignments, conditions, etc., and other questions related to this matter are laid down in the regulation on the establishment. The only question now is who will write this rulebook, whether you write it to yourself or whether someone should determine how many of you can work in that Commission. Article 34 is an extremely interesting speech on infringement provisions, with a fine of 50 to 1 million kuna, the legal person or unit of local regional self-government will be punished for the offence. I think it's a good thing, but when the units of local and regional (regional) self-government are so taxed, I think maybe the name, last name should also be referred to the government, prime ministers, ministers or ministries because we will all agree that the unmatched greater possibility of abuse is with the government body than the local authorities. The budget for this year is 111 billion kuna, the expenditure side is 120 billion kuna, the expenditure side of all our local self-government, I doubt it, with the City of Zagreb clearly cannot cross 15.16 billion kuna. If we add this to public enterprises then we see that the Republic of Croatia, meaning the government, the ruling majority, the coalition has, controls almost 50% of the country's gross social product. The transitional and final provisions shall be bound by the State Commission within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law to adopt the sublegal acts prescribed by this law. I think it's too long a time, etc. and finally Article 36 that the members of the State Commission appointed here under the provisions of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure remain in office under the terms of the prescribed law until the end of the term of office for which they are appointed. I would like to point out once again that you should make your mandates available to that future government when there is a normal change of government. As our commission means public procurement is best witnessed by these recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent events. For example. One HEP, one Croatian Railway, there's Podravka, there's our shipyards. Neither the government, nor the judiciary, nor the M.O.P., nor you on the commission did your job, and I think that's why someone would have to deal with the consequences in this country. I heard, today I read a title that this is the right time to privatise Croatian shipyards, and the cynics might say that this is the right time to go or to pack the cases of this government. So that's what you know, what I was talking about just how much these assets are alienated on an annual basis. I even dare say that in the last 6 years in Croatia more has gone by than in the early 1990s through conversion and privatisation. He would even dare to say that it was one general test for what was to be followed just before Croatia's entry into the European Union, when all these major national companies were to fall, or I don't know those remaining public companies. We see a "Podravka" that happens there, shipbuilding, etc. And what do we have today? Even our tycoons we see are getting nervous, they know that everything they got, they get from the state, they know that there's still something in this country that they want to take over, and that's why they're literally trying to take over the institutions of this country, because a lot of their tycoon empires, without that happening, are going to come into question that I'm not saying, under quotes, might even fail. Clearly, the kid's falling off anyway, I like to say that small craftsmen are even in a harder position than the workers who work there, but this, when we talk about these big ones who took part in the conversion and privatisation, it's a whole other story. What's going on with this public procurement? Those who led these public systems today become the most powerful people in the Republic of Croatia. Even some of the '90s ministers who say that everything they've acquired, they've won't be fair, could envy their property. And everything in this country is clean and no one in this country can fall hair off their heads. So this commission hasn't done the job, and I'm afraid it's going to repeat the mandate, and that's why I think if we're going to stop this wealth from working, we should start from our institutions. I have the impression that our commission was protecting more, I'm not going to say crime than some individuals in those public systems, but what they wanted to deal with. The truth is, our citizens want to trust the commission, and that's why there's more and more of these complaints year by year, but in vain, the players would tell them in a song. So the question is, how do you end it? How can such an act be eradicated? With the same people, we will not be able to change that behavior in this country. There are 280 thousand unemployed or so many of them by the end of the year, and from that number can certainly recruit the army of those who will be in the future not only at work but who will be effective and who will work clearly under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39859	Thank you. How's the second verse of "due to the effort of the players"? "For the other, the dunes are yellow." The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, scheduled a session for today at 14 o'clock in Hall "Janka Drašković" number 202. HDZ representative club, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39860	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to begin by saying that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, that it has considered the proposal of the Law on the State Commission for Public Procurement Control and will support its adoption. We believe that laws should always be amended when an objective need is shown for this, that the existing legislation should not be an obstacle to development or a limiting factor in our country's entry into the European Union. As far as this Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is concerned, we are pleased that it is not proposed to amend and supplement it but to propose a new law because this makes it clear that the rights and obligations of the State Commission are more clearly nominated. The current Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures was adopted in 2003, while the Law on concessions, "National Journal" 125/2008, Law on Public Private Partnership, "National Journal" 129/08, was adopted, whose provisions condition the amendments to the Law on the State Commission. Also in accordance with the 2008 Public Procurement System Development Strategy, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, with the existing jurisdiction of complaint resolution in classical public procurement procedures, becomes the authority responsible for legal protection and in concession procedures and in procedures for selecting a private partner in a public-private partnership model. The obligation to comply, i.e. the adoption of a new Law on the State Commission, stems from Chapter 5 of the negotiations with the European Union, Public procurement or the obligation to implement Directive 2007/66. In accordance with the experience of the work so far, greater transparency is introduced in the work of the institutions of the obligation to publish on the websites in shorter time than the previous, clear way of disseminating cases of appeal between members of the State Commission. Furthermore, compensation for the initiation of an appeal procedure in the award of concessions and public-private partnerships is introduced, which is not determined by the current positive legal regulations. The fee is paid in the state budget, and the payment of the fee becomes a procedural assumption. We also believe that it is extremely important that this law prohibits any form of influence on decision-making, any misuse of public powers, means of communication and public intervention that could affect the course and outcome of the procedure before the State Commission. The State Commission, in the exercise of its powers and natural persons, is obliged to provide assistance particularly professional in the closely specialised areas relating to the subject of public procurement. Nothing is less important than the provisions of laws which accurately regulate the rights, obligations, appointments and resolutions of members and the way the state commission decides. The State Commission is required once a year and by 1 June for the previous calendar year, to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly on its work, on the state of legal protection of public procurement and on the general public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia. At the request of the Croatian Parliament, the State Commission is obliged to submit a report for a period shorter than one year. The law imposes criminal penalties against the provisions of this law, and in particular attempts to influence the decision of the State Commission through means of public communication or public instance. The State Commission is also committed to the adoption of all the sublaws laid down by this law within 12 months of the entry into force of this law, we believe that this should also be considered whether it can be done within a short period. Finally, we believe that this bill is well prepared for discussion, that it is a good basis for the final proposal of the Law on the State Commission for Public Procurement Control, which will contribute to better and more efficient work by the State Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39861	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39862	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the adoption of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. But before I speak on behalf of the club and say something concrete about the formation itself, or the formation, about the conditions, or about the part-time work of its competences by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, allow just a few words about the public procurement itself. Public procurement is the cancer of our society's wounds and citizens are badly perceived by the winners of public procurement tenders. First of all, we have a lot of intransparency in the public procurement process. We've passed a new law, we've passed a law on concessions, we've passed a whole series of other laws under that law. Some have passed the Law on Mining, the Waters Act, in the first reading. All these laws also speak of public procurement procedures and public-private partnerships. But once again, something different and the possibilities of not getting jobs transparently, are being arranged differently by these special laws, but by the basic law. So already at the beginning we have a glimmer, i.e. blinking from the basic law which seems to me that with our joint effort is something about fixing and not so bad. Why procedures, i.e. winners of these jobs, because they are truly lottery winners who get public procurement jobs, especially those large, especially those large in construction, are not published exactly and prices and winners. So are the concessionaries. Why concessions are not entirely public. First of all, who won the concession, which is the subject of the concession and for how many years? And everything would be clear. That's what you whisper, that's what every city, every street, every cafe. And everybody knows everything, and nobody knows anything. And what's behind and what's often hiding a big crime, then where the prima facie is all neat. When in the public procurement process, he gets a job as the best bidder. So what's the best offer? What's the price of that best offer? Very expensive and overpriced. Who's doing these jobs in the end? Often, they get those who have no apparatus at all, nor plants for the jobs they have received. Subcontractors, and then co-operatives, so the state owes or is paid off in advance for such jobs, but the one who actually did the job rarely sees that money. But new procedures are coming, so we know these people are being threatened, if you insist on legal protection, and you're not getting a job anymore. And so it's all going round and round. And that's the truth that doesn't need to be proved, because it's common knowledge. It's the theorem of our everyday life. But nobody deals with it. It's all legal. There's nothing wrong with that. As it is possible for the subcontractor to agree, the subcontractor who offered the higher price agreed to work for the contractor who won the competition and who offered a lower price. Well, it's obvious he's in agreement. It's obviously dirty mob business at the beginning. So we saw the State Commission insisting in 2003. We've seen that little anyone dares to address the State Commission, that these are initially written off people who will get any more serious jobs. And it's about a deep crisis, it's about a lot of corruption. And that's why honest, just people find it hard to get jobs and fail. In our society, thieves sleep peacefully, and unnervingly honest people, because their existence is threatened. Well, they're not clean, they're not diphtherias, they're not false accusations against those who want to fight for some kind of justice. It's our reality. But it's not a matter of law, it's a matter of system. But there's something in the law that can be done. Subcontractors can't get jobs, especially public jobs where the state is the business holder, where local self-government units are. That's where we can control them. In what way? So jobs can get the one who's gonna take them out. And if it's necessary for subcontractors to do so, then I can't get it, that subcontractor can't work for that contractor because they're obviously in agreement. This chain of corruption and crime should be stopped at the beginning. They're in agreement, they're in serious crime. The state is often powerless but there is someone who, then and within the system, obviously goes for it. And even those who want to contain it don't have a good mechanism. That's why it's all rotten down there until it gets to the state commission itself. We've seen from the annual reports of the state commission that few are complaining. Unfortunately, we also had a situation where the Croatian Parliament, the government, thanking the man who has improved these jobs in Croatia, who has provided us with certain points, points in improving the system and curbing corruption in the European Union. That's how he became a "persona non grata" for these jobs. It's not good, it's not good messages but it's good anyway, I'll be back very specific now and on the law itself. Such an imaginary body, which would be made up of lawyers, by persons who must have the same conditions as judges, state lawyers, lawyers, public notebooks, is absolutely acceptable. And their untouchableness must be guaranteed. Therefore, here, who have spoken of some of the dilemmas that are pressure procedures, every pressure procedure. But it's not acceptable since everything about public procurement, we've seen and I've tried to say something about how we've had a lot of system shortages in this low-level transparency. That's why the state commission itself doesn't have any official secrets. Procedures must be public. When the parties are open to citizenship, they must be open. Of course that doesn't mean in the old sense that citizens will come to listen and monitor but it must be made possible for them, that through the Internet as all decisions will be published here. But every procedure in the beginning must be public. That is why we are absolutely unacceptable in the SDP Club Article 20, article 30, which speaks of official secrecy because we are talking about the public of work immediately in Article 32. So wherever public affairs are, wherever they're talking about state resources, there's no secrets. However, this Institute of the Public needs to be further improved until the second reading and this article 30, because it's hard to imagine what would be within the official secret system itself. There are no secrets where public money is available, taxpayers' money, every citizen's money, these are common jobs, and they have to be transparent to the very extreme. Also, if we compare jobs and the state administration a little bit, and even in the judiciary, we can see that it is a cancer of the wounds, so the speed of action, not only the quality. We often in the state administration in the judiciary no one talks about quality anymore but about speed itself even though it must be connected. That is why it is good for us to determine here already in the process when, quite frankly, we need to complete until the second reading that the state commission, or those working on the members, has to solve each object that has arrived within 15 days. That's what it's supposed to say. And also as reasons for the resolution of the members of the State Commission, this point 6 does not, without justifiable reason, carry out the duties of members. It's not "not performing"; it's "ordinarily not performing" or late making decisions. As soon as he's late, he's not up to it, no excuse. Another thing when he is ill is that he is already on schedule for these jobs to be taken over by other colleagues or colleagues. I think that, at the beginning, if the state commission solves within the deadline of the case, if those appointed are to remove persons who do not meet these high criteria, efficiency and quality to thank them for their previous work, that they will gain a reputation very quickly and that means calling and encouraging all those who consider them to be damaged because they are then damaged and the citizens that the public procurement process so far is part of the wrong. So this is our chance to gain citizens' trust and, above all, institutions that have or manage citizens' money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39863	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39864	Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. It is good for this law to be in two readings, I hope that by the second reading you will prepare a series of significant changes, several such proposals I will give in my debate. The importance of this state commission that we have so far but also under the new law with a new way of regulation and authority in me is of paramount importance not only because of the amount of public procurement value in Croatia that is being implemented annually but also because of the fact that, with public procurement, they also have the power to monitor concessions, public-private partnerships and the determination of temporary insurance measures if it has been at a level of 30 billion kuna jobs a year that they could control, probably after the concession of a public-private partnership, they will probably be working at around 60 billion values. It's just my assessment. This commission, in my opinion, is one of the most significant or could be one of the most significant anti-corruption bodies in the country because it has the right to intervene or conduct a procedure before a criminal offence has been committed because it can prevent damage and possibly criminal offence from taking place by cancelling the tender. It is an appeal body, and unfortunately some fellow MPs did not understand that the state commission under this law and so far it was activated only at the time of the appeal and not the supervision of all public procurement procedures, and let's say that fellow Cain would have to understand and understand what it was about. But I ask the question because it is indeed true that too few participants in the public competition process of concession rights and the public-private partnership decide to appeal. For this reason, the Croatian specifics and experiences could give this commission the right of supervision and under the official duty of competitions or concession decisions worth more than 5 million kuna. Why just a complaint or a body overseeing the appeal procedure? Let's just say that this commission has the opportunity to interfere on official duty, it wouldn't happen next. To open a tender for new police uniforms, the Ministry of the Interior will receive an offer from the offer of a community of bidders led by the Chatex 20 million kuna and cancel the tender. The State Commission respects the appeal of participants in the competition, and at the same time, be careful after 11 May this year that the same Ministry of Interior concluded a contract directly with the "Vartex" from Varazdin for part of the course of the competition. The state commission knew about the public procurement process, respected a complaint from the public tender participants, and at the same time the same ministry concluded a contract with another offering community led by Vortex at the value of 12 million kuna for part of the police uniform. Not complete, not new, but old. This is just an illustration of why I think it would be very good to think about and that this state commission can get involved in the procurement process, let's just say my proposal is worth more than 5 million kuna, not only when it comes to complaints. What I think is good in Article 2(3) that this state commission is responsible for the Croatian Parliament, but then I do not understand the provision of Article 4(2) why the consent to their statutes is given by the Government and not by the Parliament. In fact, the statutes will prescribe procedural actions and relations within the state commission itself, and the government gives consent to the statutes. If the state commission is responsible to the Parliament, then the parliament, which would not be the first or only case, would give consent to the Commission's statutes. I therefore suggest that you provide for consent in Article 4 to the Statute of the Parliament, not to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Article 9 regulates the government's right to propose a selection of board members to the Parliament. It will start three months before, it must end no later than a month before the term of office. But you didn't prescribe anything about how the government would lead or carry out the application procedure. A public call open to all citizens, a secret call opened only to party members, communities and parties or anything else. I think the law deserves at least one provision on how the government collects possible candidates, in which, upon the call of the Government, citizens who meet the requirements of the law can come forward and say I want to be a member of the state commission. Article 11 provides that a Member of the State Commission may not. Now I would like to warn you of the fact that the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is not covered by either the President or the members of the State Commission. In view of the new importance and definition of this state commission, I believe that the Government should or should propose to supplement the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and this State Commission, so as to include members of the State Commission in the persons covered by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. This is not a state-run administrative organisation, so it is neither covered by that provision, and it is indeed unclear to me, because a mixture is made, whether members of this state commission acquire the status of state officials or civil servants. I didn't understand that. I repeat, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest must refer to the members of this Commission. This Regulation shall enter Now listen to this. After the end of the term of office and the resolution of the board member has the right to pay, the full salary he received a month before that year after the resolution. A year after being replaced, he has the right or the right to receive salary, full pay as if he were working. Does any official in Croatia have such right? I don't know who that... A year of full pay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The public has been suffocating and on our rightful representation rights, after six months the right half of the salary is realised. Here is the introduction of one privilege a year of receiving the salary after the resolution and the amount of the last salary. I don't understand why that. Article 15 refers to the case of an early resolution proposal. According to Article 15, only the Government has the right to propose a resolution. If the Parliament chooses the commission and if the commission is responsible for its work to the Parliament, why would the Parliament not have the power, the right to initiate proceedings for the resolution of members or commissions as a whole? Article 29 states that the Commission must give us a report by 1 June for last year. March 31st, I suggest, because why until June 1st if they give us until March 31st, we will discuss it in September, and believe me, it already fits. Finally, Article 36, the current commission appointed under the old law remains until the end of the term of office. Okay, but you could've at least written it by when it was. Do any of you know when the term of office of this committee expires? In the light of the law, you didn't give it, so I'm asking you to tell the current members of the commission when that mandate expires and, in the future, the relevant information is, in my opinion, put it in the light of the law. Without these repairs that I have made so far, as well as these other colleagues who have spoken so far, the law could be extremely dangerous because it would create a state commission with quite large and important powers that could be a cover, apostrophe, concessions and a public-private partnership to the business that has been present so far. The construction mafia deals with each other, especially great values, complaints are gone and everything is formally fine. 1% on 30 billion, 1% on 60 billion on my estimate. If that part of crime is prevented, the commission will finance itself, there will be no cost to this country, even a lot of money. That is why I propose these serious changes in the current text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39865	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39866	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This proposal, the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure, is an extremely important law. If we know that up to 30% of the state budget is carried out through the public procurement process on tens of billions of kunas, then it is certainly a need for a legislation that will thoroughly and professionally fence that space. I welcome first that this law is not passed by emergency procedure because unfortunately there are too many shortcomings. I would not repeat all the shortcomings made by the president of the Legislative Committee because it is visible, and I will only touch those that no one has mentioned before or touched in part. But indeed, because of the importance of this area, I appeal to a more professional and systematic approach to this proposal. Because this is one simple law on just a few pages, and there are more mistakes than pages. And that's a thorough mistake. It is unacceptable, indeed unacceptable that the statutes of the State Commission are governed by the State Commission itself and determines the amount of wages itself. It's impossible to act so professionally. It is said in Article 7. The State Commission is operating on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. If the State Commission is on whose territory it will operate, it will not be in Slovenia, so I guess it works on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In Article 10(1), I would ask the Secretary of State to write down what I'm saying. In Article 10(1), it is proposed that everyone be a member of the State Commission, and from the conditions provided for in which I welcome such conditions, that the professional conditions are a highly educated professional preparation. But where it's said that five years is at work and public procurement. I suggest he be on the job for five years, not just public procurement. Public procurement is a narrow term from procurement, and then if it's only on public procurement, then we rule out everyone else and those who are more qualified for the job than the others. Therefore, let it be who has at least five years of experience in the procurement business. Article 10 does not show who appoints the President. All we know is that there are five members of the State Commission, but you can't see how the president will be elected. This Regulation shall enter The Council of the State Commission shall decide on the incompatibility of the service, etc., and no description of what the Council is and who makes the Council. There's no definition of the Council. Article 14 of Mr. Lesar referred to this article and said that he would have the right to resupply for 12 months to an early discharge or an end to his term of office. Comrade Lesar, I didn't want to correct your incorrect allegations, as foreseen by this proposal, but it won't be so, I'm sure it won't be so. Because 12 months of severance and pay, and if his term of office ceases, and Article 15 says when his mandate ceases, when he permanently loses his ability to perform his duty, when he commits a criminal act against the Republic of Croatia, when he violates his obligation to keep his business secret. It means when he does not exercise the authority of the members of the State Commission for no good reason. So that he could be resolved at the time, and for the reward, because of his poor work, unprofessional work, the crimes seemed to receive a year’s wages. That's really unacceptable. I propose to reduce the deadline, and for those who are due before the deadline of Article 15, there is no one month of any severance. He cannot receive wages from someone who has broken the law, who has committed a crime, and who is unprofessional in his duties or who loses his ability permanently. That's unacceptable. The State Commission shall take decisions at meetings of the Council. And yet we said we don't know what the Council is at all, in what way and what the Council makes up. Article 22 does not define the structure of the State Commission at all, but that is why Article 24 defines the term spokeswoman. Well, by law nowhere, there's no definition of a spokesman in any law. There is no structure here, and even given, it explains legally what the role of the spokesman is. When we talk about official secrecy, Article 30, so if it is stated that they are obliged to keep the official secret, and they are doing public work, and it is not specified what makes the official secret, it is not known what data, what activities make the official secret. Finally, it is said that the State Commission will, within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law, pass the sublaws prescribed by this law. So what's he gonna do for 12 months? He can do that within 30 days. There's only one sublegal act. And when this is all we've heard from the president of the Legislative Committee, some colleagues and these remarks can indeed be made an extraordinary legal framework for the professional action of public procurement, and I will certainly support such a law. But I think it's more reckless than intentional failures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39867	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39868	Col. Marić, under this bill, a member of this State Commission commits a criminal offence against the Republic of Croatia, is relieved of membership and has the right to pay another 12 months afterwards and full salary. Maybe someone wanted to be here... Then let's send them straight to a well-deserved pension, and let's make it his last paycheck. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean scary! But what is even more dangerous to me is that I see a link between such a provision giving consent to the Commission's Statute to the government, the government is proposing candidates and only the government can propose a resolution of the members of the commission. And to God, the commission responds to the Croatian Assembly and delivers reports to the Croatian Parliament. The Parliament gives its consent to the Statute, the Assembly is running a nomination procedure and the Parliament can initiate a resolution. Then the true responsibility of the commission will be in this House if we want the same thing. And it seems to me that you want them to answer to us together.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39869	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39870	Thank you very much. I hope that my colleague, Lesar, will respect these remarks and that no one will really have the right to receive a salary when he is relieved of the work referred to in Article 15 of this proposal. I'm saying that this was meant to be this proposal, but I'm sure it won't be so, that this is a random disregard or a transcript has been made and certainly won't come across support for this kind of proposal to be voted on. But I also agree in part that the relationship between making status, the role of the commission in making statutes, the role of the government and the role of Parliament in all this should be harmonised. That it should be coordinated and a natural relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39871	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It is up to the honourable representative, Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I have to say that the motivation to report in the debate on the Bill's proposal to the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is a lot, and I'm only going to look back at two. The first is, therefore, the European Union guidelines require the establishment of an independent body to control public procurement procedures and this is highlighted in the light of this law. Secondly, if Croatia were to look at all the laws and bodies that protect the legality of public procurement, I think Croatia would be the best and most organised country in Europe. Croatia has the Office for Public Procurement, Vladin, has the Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, and also protects the procedure from judicial authority, so to speak, administrative procedure. Then there is protection against regular courts for the collection of damages, for determining the collection of damages and misdemeanors. So we have several bodies and several procedures that protect the legality of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia, and yet truck procurement takes place in Croatia, so public procurement in the classical sense or public private partnership of the type "Sunish Hvar". And if we add to that the right of administrative oversight that remains always to the Government and the Government, I am now going back to that European Union request through my own guidance that this commission should be independent of the Government and the Executive Authority. We put it in an explanation, and then when we solve the question, it looks like this. My colleagues have already said that, so I'm going to do it again to establish the material. The formal state commission is responsible for the Croatian Parliament and is independent of the government. The Commission is a commission of the Croatian Parliament, but the statute of the state commission, in the statute of the state commission, gives the Government of the Republic of Croatia consent, so it approves of the statute. It immediately eliminates the independence of the state commission. In Article 9, the members of the State Commission shall be appointed, true, by the Croatian Parliament, but the authorising officer shall only be the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And the Commission is an independent body according to the European Union's instructions and according to the alleged wish of the Croatian Parliament, as a decision will be made in one article. Third, refer the same to that independence. At the government's proposal, the Croatian Parliament can resolve members of the commission and commission, but only again on the government's proposal. And the body is independent of the government and the executive. If it is added that the Government also creates a material position of the Commission through the budget, then out of the independence of that commission, you can put the cat on the tail. That's how it shows practice in Croatia. We had all of this, and the European Commission for Negotiations, the main reason or often the most important reason, object that we did not regulate the issue of public procurement in the spirit of European standards. So it's not the regulation, it's not the Parliament's will, it's not even ignorance, it's something else. If something really exists in Croatia, it acts, as a rule, that the parliamentary majority does not consume the Constitution when it comes to the supervision of the government and the executive authorities, but in general almost always votes everything that comes from the government's office or the government's cabinets. We have a situation, therefore, that the domination of the executive power over Parliament, when it comes to public procurement, is almost absolute. Almost absolute. And there's nothing more to add. Of course, when it comes to things already mentioned, it is necessary to distinguish between qualified and unqualified forms of resolution of members of the state commission. Well, I don't think anyone's going to stand behind a member of the State Commission for the Control of Procedures or any commission that's been cleared for qualified reasons, so he's committed a criminal offence, that he's still getting paid for a year. So he was disgracefully fired, of course it must be excluded from the attractive conditions for people to report to that commission. But for example, in the same position, it can't be the person who's earned the terms of retirement and is therefore resolved. These are two different reasons and two different reasons should be different and regulated in law and their rights and obligations. So the attractiveness of working in that commission is, let's call the best judges, lawyers, all of it, but we can't put under the same basket the person who committed the crime in connection with the work on the state commission and the one who worked neatly and went to regular retirement. That's two important reasons, different reasons. Of course, we should add that we are not making innocents and ignorants of ourselves, because the state commission is actually working only in the appeal procedure. By the time we get to the state commission, all the marifettes are finished. She's just taking certain things that are encouraged to enter the account process I won't compete in at least two, three years more at this competition or at that public institution in the public procurement process or in the concession procedure and don't give God the most in the public private partnership process. Let us not now expect that honey and milk will be running in public procurement in the Republic of Croatia when we adopt a new Commission Act and we say we have solved the problem of public procurement in Croatia because we have completed and passed a new Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, when we have a fresh memory when the Parliament in this composition has resolved the President of the Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which has been commended by the Parliament and the European Commission itself. This absolutely shows that in Croatia it is not a matter of regulation, norm, law, but of the conduct of the executive government, government and government in order. And also the parliamentary majority because they do not carry out the constitutional task of overseeing the government's work. For this reason, of course, I support that this Law be adopted in two readings, that a new law be passed, of course, but that we do not deceive the public with this Act, nothing will change significantly in Croatia in the practice of public procurement, concessions and private public partnership, of course I hope that there will never be another Sunni Hvar, a public private partnership of this type selling such Croatian property through a private partnership or giving private persons such a firm to buy it through investment in its company. Thank God it's just an invention in Croatia and there's no such thing anywhere else. Therefore, let's pass the law but let's change the practice, monitor the government, and the public has the right to know we open public procurement procedures completely public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39873	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39874	In fact, I'd just like to discuss this thesis that Mr. Leco said for a moment. Therefore, given the legislation we have, and the whole system as well as how it is arranged and which deals with public procurement, including the State Commission, etc., so that we can say that we are one of the most orderly countries in the European Union, but we should certainly think in a way that the State Commission is only one extremely important point, one of the most important points but that its work does not solve the problem of public procurement. So, they only act on this complaint, according to that application, and thousands of those irregularities that occur in public tenders, from units of local self-government, different institutions, etc., remain unexplained, never shared, etc., unless there are those participants in the competition who will complain about the procedure and warn about irregularities in the process namely, we also have the third thing which is the question of the bidders themselves, therefore, those who, in this case, complain and who are the address of the state commission where they, like some invisible cartels, join and perform in competitions in a way that negotiate prices, mutually agreed prices, go with that price and to a certain competition for a particular institution, simply release one supplier. In the second competition then again the same team I would say this invisible cartel lets the other one, etc., it revolves around and comes up with huge prices that are characterized by public competition, so it's all done by law, and in fact we have one association in the background that needs to be dealt with and this State Competition Protection Commission. There are particularly significant these activities such as the building, such as pharmaceutical companies etc., meaning where the work is constantly, where it is not only one competition per year but it is a continuous job.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39875	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39876	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There is no answer to the replica because we agree here, I can only conclude thank God that those who are in the position of the authorities also see the problem in practice and not in normative optimism, and here we fully agree. So it's not about writing and writing laws and norms, it's about starting to show examples that you can't work, so let's sanction Sunny Hvar or getting a truck I think it's more important than changing this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39877	Thank you. And individually, we have another debate, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39878	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after a whole series of proposals for observed irregularities in this relatively short law, I would still try to remind myself of what is positive and the importance of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and what is pointed out in this relatively short Law, thus saying that this law is essentially the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, founded by the Public Procurement Act of 2001, and was established by the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures as we know in 2003. As an independent and independent second-degree state body responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement procedures of the Republic of Croatia. So complaints, not complete procedures and all this talk during the debate on this law. The Act on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures with the existing competence shall be settled by the Commission in the classic procedures of public procurement of the complaint. This becomes essentially the body responsible for legal protection and concession procedures as well as for the selection of a private partner in a public private partnership model. I remind such a body and such a Commission in these two areas so far we have not had, and that is something positive that is being introduced by this Law. There are only 13 members, and practically in the past six years there have been no objections to this rather short Law, we are now in a position to comment on it through the adoption and proposal of this Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. These articles require a clearer standard of the rights and obligations of this institution in the area of jurisdiction to provide uniform legal protection in public procurement procedures, as I said concessions and public-private partnerships, prohibitions of influence on the course and outcome of proceedings before the State Commission, the obligation to publicise all decisions of the State Commission, the obligation to pay compensation for the conduct of the appeal procedure with regard to the award of concessions and the choice of a private partner. Among other things, the adoption of the Law on concessions and the Law on Public Private Partnership in 2008 has given the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedures jurisdiction in the proceedings and the granting of concessions and procedures for selecting a private partner in the models of a public-private partner. This law therefore lays down a State Commission with an extended competence in the procedures for the submission of those interpretations. Finally, in line with the experiences of the work so far and the public's demands, greater transparency is introduced in the work of the institution, the obligation to publish decisions on the website within shorter deadlines than the previous, clear way of sharing cases of appeal between members of the State Commission. This enables all participants in public procurement procedures, concessions and public-private partnerships to better monitor the legal practice of the State Commission. The news is as the fee has been said, and the importance of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures is also visible in the increase in the number of complaints lodged in 2008 compared to 2007 for the lack of 62%. This points to a trend in enhanced control of public procurement procedures, i.e. the fact that economic operators participating in the procurement process are increasingly using their right to appeal in the event of a suspicion of irregularity in the procedure. Of course, it is also expected to increase and continue the growth of this trend given the new competences of the State Commission in the area of concessions and public-private partnership. The most frequently observed irregularities in public procurement procedures are illegal publications and documentation for competition. Contractors fail to seek any evidence of the ability of economic operators or incorrectly determine the incompetence of economic operators. The work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures under these irregularities in today's economic situation is also reflected through the increased need for savings. It represents a particularly significant mechanism for protecting the rights of equality and transparency in the procurement process, as well as an extremely significant impact on the legality of business and on the reduction of corruption that we all advocate. Of course, like most participants, my colleague in the debate today, I will support this proposal in my first reading, with the expectation that the applicants will seriously consider a whole series of proposals, the remarks we heard in the debate, and that this will result in a truly good law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39879	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I will share my closing word in two parts. One will be of legal nomotechnical nature and I will agree with all the remarks there. It has already been demonstrated in committees that the text of the law needs legal and nomotechnical improvement and that is why we have also suggested that we go to another reading and everything you have said and about the statute and related to a number of other things stands and a colleague at the State Commission will be given an additional homework to ensure that everything that has been said and written is certainly prepared for a second reading. However, there have been several reviews in the debate, and this is now the second part of my final presentation. First, I must express some concern that the debate does not take into account the fundamental principles of public procurement, so when it is said in the debate that the number of complaints has increased, which means that there is something wrong with the law, then I must remind myself that the number of complaints has increased because unlike the previous law, at any stage of the procedure until the agreement can be made, the appeal can be made, so at any stage, and not as before when the decision was made and when the party considered to be damaged could only complain about the decision. Opening the appeal procedure a complete phase of the procedure until the decision-making and conclusion of the contract, of course, is statistically increasing the inflow of complaints and that fact someone must know. Especially someone who has conducted public procurement procedures in the local self-government unit in the past term. These are the basic basics of the Public Procurement Act that must simply be known. In the part relating to the basic work of the State Commission, as well as for example the Agency for the Protection of the Competition, and this is in some way the model of the Agency, or the model of the State Commission to which we operate, is established in the Assembly, must have its own council, the basic principles of the work of the State Commission are drawn from the Directive. Of course, implementation, implementation and a clear hodogram who does and how it is decided must be nomotechnically and legally better arranged and we will certainly do so for a second reading, but let's not think that the State Commission is not doing its job well. There is no ministry where the State Commission is not independent and independent and completely surgically precisely cut off from any influence, there is no ministry that has not destroyed the competition in front of the State Commission and beyond. So much for influence. Who made the deal with who, and how much are these contracts worth? It's all in the e-procurement notice. There's all the information you can see and you can sort it out. So you need to know where to look for information after all. The opening of offers is public, it is the new law we adopted last year in this Croatian Parliament. It's public. With the presence of media, stakeholders, therefore a contribution if nothing else transparency, the publication of the State Commission's solution is public. She couldn't do it before. She didn't have a good time at first. Surveillance? Why doesn't the State Commission keep an eye on the contract? That's what we do at the Ministry of Economy. I presented that part of my job to the Council for the Prevention of Corruption, Anti-corruption. There was a surprising little interest in what I was doing as Secretary of State in the surveillance process. And what kind of surveillance I'm taking and what it is after all, which is the result of the supervision I'm doing. It's part of my job not the State Commission. The State Commission, as justifiably observed, reacts when the complaint is made. And otherwise, between the lines said "Podravka" is not a public contractor and a public procurement officer, but it assumes that it probably wanted to use space and payphones for the messages of some other content. It was also said that we thanked the man who successfully led the State Commission. Indeed, it was successfully led to the end of the term of office, the mandate has not been renewed. I think it was even written to the former Prime Minister for the possibility of not restoring that mandate. However, one perception is created, practically a cult of personality, that there is no success if there is no individual. Let's not get into the cult columns of personality. Because if, at the very least, that perception of that cult of personality has been contributed by budget money so that this perception is created in the papers and I apologize in advance if it doesn't prove untrue, then it's at least terrible. I, for the sake of my country for zero kunas, by my professional if nothing else of reputation, can come anywhere and talk about the progress my country makes, so on behalf of my country. And so with very large reserves and fences, I repeat, if one kuna of budget money was spent to create that perception, then it's terrible. Let me remind you of one circumstance, it has been said that no one will stand behind a member of the commission receiving a salary 12 months after his term has expired, or after being resolved. Let me read something. "The members of the commission shall have the right to compensation in the amount of the last salary paid in the month prior to the resolution to a new employment for a maximum period of one year from the day of termination of their duties." "The People's Newspaper" 117.2003. A year. People's newspaper" 117.2003. A year. This provision that is hardly criticised from all sides today is a provision that we draw from the old law that is supported in this House, for which hands have been raised in this House. "The state commission appoints and relieves the duties of the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the government. The Croatian Parliament may dismiss the duties of members of the State Commission before the term of office of the Government's proposal expires, a repeated article. No one will stop from receiving a salary of 12 months if it is resolved on the basis of a criminal offence." The Croatian Parliament supported this provision in 2003, it was prescribed in a new version of the law. But I agree that so far practice and various circumstances have shown that this provision for another reading will not be described in this way. But let's also be careful about the subjective parts when it comes to public procurement, because the big money is in play, our money at the end. But let us also be a little careful about certain qualifications with which we perform in the evaluation of the work of a commission, one body that is dedicated and excellent in doing its job. And I call for a detailed reading of the European Commission's report on Chapter 5 which will be published next month. I believe you'll have reason to be proud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39881	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39882	It is incorrect to argue that because of the very fact that a provision existed in a law adopted in 2003, there is an excuse for it to be in the current law. It's that pay order for 12 months. Namely, the conditions of 2003 and the occurrences of 2003 are not the phenomena we are witnessing today. In 2003 there was far more responsibility in the work of such bodies, and such a provision may have been justified. Today, when we see scandals, robbery, corruption, then we can't justifiably agree to this provision from 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39883	Thank you. And the second correction to the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39884	Thank you very much. Falsely calling and unfairly calling for an explanation of the new law by the state of things, even if they were in 2003. That is why a whole new law on the state commission is being adopted, so it is a very illogical reaction to disqualify the Croatian Parliament because it once brought something, when it is proposed to the government to resolve the reasons for resolution, honorable and dishonest. So, if the government thinks it's the same to solve a man because he's sick, so he's incapable of performing a function or because he's committed a crime so he has to be resolved, then the problem is in the criteria and values that the government represents, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39885	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39886	15. The proposal for a law on the State Commission to control the procurement process was first reading, P.Z.E. Number 429, Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a law on the State Commission to control the procurement procedure is adopted, secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill was adopted by most votes, 88 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39887	Now I propose that points 16,17,18,19,20 and 21,22 of the United Union be discussed together, because it is an IPA programme in different forms, so I suggest that those points be united. Does anyone mind? As far as I can tell, we agreed. This means that - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on a Programme for the financing of Croatia's participation in transnational programmes of European territorial cooperation, the European Regional Development Fund "Southeast europa" and "Meditiran", under the component of cross-border cooperation of the 2008 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 431, - Proposal for a law to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the Croatia-Montenegro Cross-border Cooperation Programme, within the framework of the 2008 cross-border cooperation of the IPA Programme, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 432, - Proposal for a law to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia-Bosnia and Herzegovina, within the framework of the IPA 2008 cross-border cooperation component, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 433, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the Croatia-Serbia Cross-border Cooperation Programme, within the framework of the 2008 cross-border cooperation of the IPA Programme, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 434, - Proposal for a law on the validation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning "IPA – the Adriatic Cross-border Cooperation Programme" under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 442, - Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning the "IPA cross-border programme Hungary-Croatia" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 440, - Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning the "IPA cross-border programme of Slovenia-Croatia" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 441, the legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This legislative proposal is discussed in an emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain or any suggestions? Yeah. Dear Stanko Janic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39888	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives, ladies and gentlemen. You have seven proposals for the law to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities in the framework of cross-border cooperation of the IPA Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance for 2008 and this Programme for the financing of Croatia's participation in the transnational programmes of the European Territorial Cooperation of the European Regional Development Fund "South East Europe" and "Meditiran" signed in Zagreb on 6 July 2009, the second programme of cross-border cooperation Croatia Montenegro signed in Zagreb on 6 July 2009, the programme "IPA – the Adriatic Cooperation Programme" signed in Brussels and Zagreb on 1 December 2008, the IPA Programme – the Cross-border Programme of Hungary – Croatia" signed in Brussels on 1 December 2008, and at the end of "IPA" on 1 December 2008. On 27 August 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concluded a Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the rules for cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of the IPA pre-accession assistance instruments approved by the Croatian Parliament on 3 October 2007. The Framework Agreement lays down general rules of cooperation and the implementation of European Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance. The financing agreement itself regulates the more detailed conditions of the need to deliver assistance to the European Community, rules and procedures relating to the payment of this aid and the conditions under which it will be managed. The financing agreement does not require the adoption of new or amending existing laws but is financially binding on the Republic of Croatia and is therefore subject to the confirmation of Article 18. Laws on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. However, it is important to say that the confirmation of the financing agreement is a legal basis for the use of financial resources for aid projects through the financing programme for Croatia's participation in these programmes. The law lays down the way in which financial resources are provided necessary to implement the financing agreement or the provisions of the law and determines the central authorities of the state administration responsible for implementing it. Two basic conditions of the European Commission are for the Republic of Croatia to receive IPA funds. The creation of programming documents for each component and the accreditation of the national EU management system through components and programmes can happily report that so far all and done, institutional frameworks have been established, qualified personnel for the management and implementation of the IPA programme, the establishment of procedures and confirmed by the European Commission and joint bodies with neighbouring countries have been established. For the period from 2007 to 2013, around 70m euros are foreseen for the cross-border cooperation programme. This means it is available in 18 counties of public institutions and institutions, the economy, NGOs, development agencies that through their programmes that meet the basic objectives of each of these cross-border IPA programmes can come up with the resources necessary for their further development. It should be pointed out that programmes in EU Member States play a leading role in the preparation of the implementation of the programme by management bodies located in Member States, meaning in Slovenia, Hungary and Italy while the Republic of Croatia plays a leading role in preparing and implementing the programmes that we have with IPA users. So we are managing bodies, with us standing for co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia. It is also important to note that cross-border cooperation includes cooperation on the development and implementation of joint projects of two or more cross-border... partner of regional participants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The financial resources shall be allocated on the basis of joint invitations to grant grants under the pre-defined priorities set out in six cross-border and two transnational programmes officially approved by the European Commission. The maximum amount that can be obtained by the user of this programme is 85% grants and 15% of the project is provided by the users and the Ministry or the Government. In 2008 and 2009, all the tenders for the delivery of project proposals within the IPA of the second component were opened, so for all seven of these programmes, the situations have already been prepared to take effect on the day of entry into force of this law, we can move practically into the realisation of these programmes on the one hand and start using these available funds in the following year. A few words just a few more words about the programs. If, by the content of the programming goals, we could put this in four groups actually. The first was the South East Europe and Mediterranean Programme. The goal of this program is double. With one to support the participation of partners from the Republic of Croatia in the joint activities of transnational cooperation with partners from EU Member States, means South-Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean, on the other hand, to meet the Republic of Croatia with territorial cooperation programmes under the EU Structural Funds on their need for accession. The South East European and Mediterranean programmes under the European Regional Development Fund, which is important, seek to establish and develop transnational cooperation through network financing and measures leading to integrated territorial development. The entire territory of the Republic of Croatia is acceptable to the programmes under this programme. Another group would be Croatia's Cross-border Cooperation Programme – Montenegro, Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia – Serbia. There are two basic goals. The overall goal of the programme is to improve the quality of life in the cross-border area between Croatia and neighbouring countries. Cross-border cooperation will focus on improving the potential for tourism, creating close links between border areas, developing joint cross-border actions that would revitalise the economy and support joint environmental activities. The additional objective of the programme is also no less important to build capacity for local, regional and national EU governance institutions and prepare them to manage future cross-border programmes within the three objectives of the Structural Funds. The third group would be the IPA cross-border cooperation programme, the Adriatic cross-border co-operation programme. These programmes include Croatia, Italy, Slovenia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Greece and Albania. The purpose of the programme is to strengthen the potential for sustainable development of the Adriatic region in line with the Action Strategy between partners and acceptable areas. The last group would also be programmes with Hungary and Slovenia where the objective of the cross-border programme is to achieve a balanced sustainable development of the border areas of the Republic of Hungary, Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia through successful management of the natural and cultural heritage of intensive social economic, economic interactions. But what characterizes these six cross-border and two transnational, 18 counties can participate in the implementation of this programme, as our country is so organized that virtually all counties are cross-border with even those who can't indirectly use 20% of the funds from these funds in their realisation. Given the great importance of realising these programmes on the development of counties, public institutions of these counties, economies and NGOs on the one hand, the other of establishing quality and higher standards of good neighbourly relations, and of gaining experience at the use of European pre-accession funds that will be used in the future for better and faster withdrawal of funds and structural agricultural... I propose to this Parliament to pass those seven laws, meaning the Law on Confirming a financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities relating to the Programme for the financing of Croatia's participation in transnational programmes of European territorial cooperation, the European Regional Development Fund "Southeast europa" and "Mediteran", and six laws on the validation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning the IPA cross-border programme of Slovenia-Croatia, Hungary-Croatia, the Adriatic Cross-border Cooperation, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia-Montenegro and ultimately Croatia-Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39889	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? No, I don't. And the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? Yeah. President of the Board, Honorary Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39890	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In the proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on Croatia-Montenegro's cross-border cooperation programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, our committee discussed as an interested working body. The Committee held a joint discussion on these proposals. Representatives pointed out that the IPA cross-border cooperation programme included 18 counties as an instrument of pre-accession assistance and that these programmes raise the level of cooperation and settlement of common issues concerning the population on both sides of the border and in which the resolution of both sides participate in equal contributions, and the Commission of the European Communities and programmes financed from pre-accession funds. The programme encourages cross-border cooperation to achieve diversity and promotion of a regional economy aimed at social and environmental sustainability, improving good neighbourly relations, building local, regional and national institutions to manage EU programmes. The financing agreement shall regulate the detailed conditions necessary for the delivery of assistance to the European Community, rules and procedures relating to the payment of aid and the conditions under which such assistance will be managed. Croatia also provides additional funding in the state budget for these agreements to co-finance projects that are under way and the financing agreement. The resolution ministry organises workshops involving cross-border partners. In these workshops, partners acquire the necessary information and knowledge about the creation and writing of programmes and everything regarding the achievement of the objectives of the programme. Croatia is such a host of the two technical secrets of the IPA programme. I think it is very important here to note that in the debate on our committee, these programmes are important for our countrymen who live in border areas and who can participate and acquire the necessary knowledge and skills, which is also an interest in the country in which they live, but also in Croatia. After the debate was held, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the proposed laws here and here mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39891	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And the first ones are the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the view that we have united the debate on several laws that we want to confirm that Croatia could use the funds of the pre-accession IPA fund in the second component. I will not talk about every single agreement, but I will say something about what is actually a common denominator of all these programmes, which is that if we look at them, therefore the Croatian side above all, Croatia is preparing for membership in the European Union, because through this we are therefore preparing to use structural and cohesion funds in general through the IPA, and in this case primarily for structural funds, we are getting additional funding for development. It is the component that is always important, and in particular becomes important and important for the prominent at the time of recession and economic crisis. And of course, so the third part that is common is if you look at all these programs are very similar areas where the need for cooperation is assessed. So, on the one hand, it is about sustainable economic development, which, depending on the regions of which tourism or other is spoken of, therefore, rural development where rural development is more important, the economy. What can be used, in fact, in cross-border and transnational cooperation where it is extremely necessary, is certainly co-operation in environmental protection and nature protection and, of course, depending again on the specificities of each programme where further communication needs to be developed, etc. as is the programme with Serbia, then we also have additional components that are so called "people to people" priorities, that is, developing cooperation among different groups. So these are programs through which, perhaps at a general level when you look at the public, are not the most present since it is usually about smaller projects that are of less value and of importance to individual local communities. So, on that side they're not visible in the big public media. However, directly they concern in fact the widest circle of our citizens, institutions, NGOs, etc. So in some ways I would say that this is perhaps the most tangible vision that any individual citizen of the Republic of Croatia can actually feel the concrete benefit now from pre-accession programmes, and in the future, of course, this will also apply to, therefore, structural funds and will be subject to much greater resources. If you look at these hundreds of pages that we've got in these seven programs, you'll see that a series of activities have been done in the last ten years. In this some counties and some local units have been extremely active and all those who have actually set off early in this story I think that even in today's debate a little bit will be heard about it, in fact, in some ways today they have been collecting the results of good success since then. And that would be another appeal. I do it every time we talk about these programs. So, in some ways, it is our responsibility as Parliamentarians and advocates to spread information on this even though it is certainly the resolutions to which it is in the job description. But I think that information is never enough and that the more we talk about it and the more we carry it, the better. What might be mine here in some way is a guide to those who are not in the assembly, but this debate is certainly to look at some of these programs, to see what, which programs can run, there are a lot of them that the expenditures can't finance. And they're always together. And once you see one of these programs, say you can't finance taxes from them, etc. Then you'll know about every other program so it's the same kind of work. And I wouldn't go further into a detailed debate except for one general remark that these funds are getting bigger every year. If you look at just a program of cross-border Adriatic cooperation he is particularly rich for three years. I think about 19 million euros is on the table. I think it is already a significant asset, that Croatia already has good capacity to use it. But I say once again here's an appeal from this pay phone in the Assembly to get more information about it, yes, to get as much involved as possible. Because actually membership in the European Union is already here at the door and if we have a perspective of membership in 2012 then actually looking at this rule N plus two plus two, it means two years from the time of the conclusion of this agreement, so two years from the deadline for payment. We will actually make the last payments under these agreements already possible in membership. So, just to see how short the deadlines are and how important it is that we use these resources at our disposal, but other than as resources for development and projects and for capacity development. So that's certainly what it is at this point perhaps the most valuable that these programs carry. Here is from everything said, the Croatian Democratic Community supports all these laws that are related to IPA transnational and cross-border co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39893	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. He's the first respected representative of Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39894	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to look back on this one first of these laws, the bill. So, October 7, 2008. The Commission of the European Communities adopted the Programme on the financing and participation of the Republic of Croatia in programmes, i.e. the European Regional Development Fund, the Southeast European Area and the Mediterranean Area, provided that these programmes are also adopted. In order to implement the programme, it is necessary for the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities to conclude a financing agreement in order to lay down the conditions for the implementation of Community assistance, rules and procedures relating to such assistance and conditions, thus managing such assistance. Since this Funding Agreement is in force on the day on which the Commission receives written notice that the internal legal requirements of the Republic of Croatia for its entry into force have been met, which means that the implementation of the projects which will be funded by this Funding Agreement cannot be initiated before that date. There's a legitimate interest, so I'm going to be able to get to his finality. The objective of this programme is to support, on the one hand, the participation of partners from the Republic of Croatia in joint activities, transnational cooperation with partners from the Member States of the European Union, and, on the other hand, to meet the Republic of Croatia with territorial cooperation programmes under the Structural Funds of the European Union with regard to their implementation after accession. The South East European and Mediterranean programmes under the European Regional Development Fund therefore seek to establish and develop transnational cooperation through the financing of networks and measures leading to integrated territorial development. The establishment and development of transnational cooperation is one of the priorities of the European territorial cooperation of the Structural Funds from 2007 to 2013. To that end, the territory of the European Union has been divided into several homogeneous areas, and Member States are invited to submit an operational programme for transnational cooperation financed by the European Regional Development Fund for this area. Given its geographical inclusion in two of these homogeneous areas, Southeast Europe and the Mediterranean. The Republic of Croatia is invited to participate in relevant operational programmes. As one and the other objectives of the programme are of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia, I personally support the proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39895	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39896	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Since it is almost all said here, it is clear that today we are adopting a law that allows us to get a legal basis for using these funds. Two conditions are most important, which is accreditation and programs. We've fulfilled that as a state. What I would particularly like to emphasise is this Adriatic cross-border cooperation where 18m euros are available and where there are priorities as far as we can see on research, coastal belt protection and infrastructure programmes. And what may be important to stress was there was no talk about the amount of these programmes, since I know that the competitions are still open to this programme of Adriatic, cross-border Adriatic cooperation. The projects range from 500 000 euros to 5m euros. It may be important to hear those who intend to compete. It is that it is necessary to provide additional funding in the state budget, because without these 15% provided by end-users and your Ministry of Regional Development cannot implement these projects. Understand that we want to strengthen the potential for sustainable development of the Adriatic region, that we want to better coordinate the action strategy between partners, and when it comes to transnational cooperation, it is also essential to integrate territorial development, i.e. to bring all these countries on one side of the border evenly developed. What is important to mention is that here a decentralised model is used for administrative bodies or agencies that are responsible for certain components. It is also important to say that the Joint Supervisory Board has a very complicated task of controlling the evaluation programme, and sometimes includes the repayment of the amounts wrongly paid. I want to say that I had two programs, not from IPA, but from these current funds that I worked on in the local administration and self-government, and it's very, very complicated, and it's a very complicated process and reporting and monitoring the evaluation and later reports that I still found most difficult at that stage of our two projects. We had two parks in Dubrovnik and a park in Lokrum. The most difficult problem was in the end a report when we needed everyone here, every euro to justify it. And that's why he needs to be very competent. You told the secretary of state in your introduction that we have secured personnel, I believe that's how it is, trained personnel and that good joint bodies will work. What is important here to stress that these agreements are not a condition of harmonisation, but they fall under Chapter 22 concerning regional policy. In any case, it is good that we have entered, that today, that is, when the conditions for voting are met, we will confirm the laws on these agreements, because this is a legal basis for the free use of financial resources. They are important to each of our citizens, whether at the border or applied, or some of these programmes refer to the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, as is said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39897	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39898	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here I will limit my exposure to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities relating to the IPZA programme through Adriatic cross-border cooperation, and within the framework of the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. I'm only going to briefly look back on the programming strategy of this particular document. The IPA programme of Adriatic cross-border cooperation gives priority to the objectives of the pre-accession and cohesion policy of the European Union. This programme is based on cooperation between the meanings, as we have heard, four candidates and potential candidates and three Member States, potentially meeting IPA's objectives by allowing participating countries to undertake joint activities to develop their territories, according to community rules and regulations, by developing the institutional capacity of candidate countries. The cross-border cooperation programme is a component that aims to benefit from relations in the Adriatic swimming pool and stabilise them by promoting sustainable and balanced development. Principles, I will remind myself of the principles of drawing up this programme, which are common benefits, championships, sustainable development, equal opportunities without discrimination, respect for personal rights, territorial territory and strengthening the competitiveness of the Adriatic basin compared to other GO economic areas. The objective of the programme was to draw priorities and activities of the programme in line, to be in line with the results of the assessment of needs and... analysis, means analysis of equal, analysis of strong and weak sides, possibilities and threats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This programme was developed in coordination means state bodies, interminist groups of units of regional and local self-government and has been working on this programme for a long time. So after elaborated, after basic analysis, after... The following priorities have been analysed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Before signing the agreement, I would just like to remind myself of the strategic priorities of this document, i.e. the strategic priorities of this document, which are a global or strategic objective and to strengthen the potential for sustainable development of the Adriatic region through a coherent strategy of action among partners with acceptable areas. And first-level priorities are economic, social and institutional co-operation as priority number one. Priority number two, natural and cultural wealth and risk prevention. The third priority is accessibility and networking. So after such a defined strategy, the objectives and measures that will achieve this strategic goal were developed after the priorities defined, and I think, because I was a participant in the development of this programme, that the strategic objective was extremely well set. Afterwards, a tender which is still open, the interest in this competition is very large in this coastal area, and here is this agreement, which today, the law we have on the agenda, provides a legal basis for the use of financial resources for numerous projects prepared for us at regional and local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39899	Thank you. Dear Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39900	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is given that it is proposed to bring together a debate on all seven legislative proposals confirming funding agreements between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities under the IPA cross-border cooperation component I will seek this debate in a way and unite and shorten. First, I'm going to say something about the programme itself, or the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance of the IPA. The IPA is the latest instrument of pre-accession assistance from the European Union available to the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2007 to its entry into full membership in the European Union and is practically a substitute for all the assistance programmes that the Republic of Croatia has used quite successfully in the previous period. So this refers to the programme of assistance to CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPhard. The main objectives of the IPA programme are to support candidate and potential candidate countries in harmonising national legislation with the acquis of the European Union, and to train them to implement harmonised rules, as well as to prepare for future use of funds that can currently be used by members of the European Union alone. The IPA Programme consists of what is important to know from five components and it is important to know that countries potential candidates have the right to participate in the first two components so, among other things, in the cross-border cooperation component. What I find important is to stress that the Republic of Croatia must meet two basic conditions for obtaining IPA funds. Or to draw up software documents for each component and accredit the national EU governance system by component or individual programmes. I look forward to the fact that the main part of this very demanding job when it came to component 2 successfully brought to an end, given the fact that the Ministry of Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy received accreditation from the European Commission on the implementation of the IPA programme on 17 November 2008 which formally confirmed that the established management system meets the set criteria for decentralised implementation of the programme. It should also be stressed that the Agency for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia has been established, which will be responsible for the implementation of the programme with non-member countries of the European Union after a recent accreditation. In this context, it is necessary to emphasise, unlike the programmes that we have with the Member States of the European Union, that in cross-border cooperation programmes with potential candidates, the leading role in the preparation and implementation of the programme will be given to management bodies located in the Republic of Croatia. The objective of this Agreement is to finance the second component of the IPA Cross-border Cooperation Programme, which is a financial instrument intended to finance the programme between the Member States of the European Union and the candidate countries or potential candidates for membership in the European Union. It is very important to say that as part of its component, the Republic of Croatia is working with all its neighbours, i.e. six cross-border cooperation programmes and two trans-national programmes. Furthermore, the important fact for cross-border cooperation programmes is the need to conclude a financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities, which will also achieve the final formal legal preconditions for the application of this programme and the withdrawal of financial resources intended for these programmes. Since the obligation to confirm these agreements, since the Republic of Croatia has certain financial obligations under these agreements, is necessary, in accordance with our positive regulations, that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia by law confirms all these agreements. Given what I said earlier, this will create an assumption of start-up means the possibility of withdrawing the financial resources available to the Republic of Croatia will personally vote in favour of all these Laws confirming the financing agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39901	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39902	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will briefly address the cross-border co-operation programme between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in my debate. The objective of this Programme is therefore to support the development of cross-border measures and partnerships and the development of joint cross-border actions to revitalise the economy, protect nature and the environment and increase the social cohesion of this area. The additional objective of course is to build capacity for local, regional, national institutions to manage European Union programmes. The priorities and measures that are defined in this cross-border programme are three, I would say here which are three priorities. This is the creation of a common economic space, improved quality and social integration and technical assistance. The first two priorities were selected as direct support in areas with concrete opportunities such as tourism and the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector and in areas that could raise the quality of life but also improve social cohesion through the protection of nature and the environment and by improving access to services. Technical assistance shall ensure effective management and implementation of the programme. So, in my debate, I will look briefly at only one of these three priorities, which is the priority of creating a common economic space that responds to the difficult economic situation on both sides of the border, which is characterised by the decline of the population, the high degree of dependence on the undeveloped agricultural sector, and the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector facing insufficient access to credit resources, lack of expertise and entrepreneurship. The tourist sector is well developed in the western part of the programme area near the Adriatic coast but is also underdeveloped in its central and eastern parts, and some of the main obstacles in the development of the tourism sector are poor infrastructure, low marketing levels as well as insufficient exchange of information between tourist operators and other sectors of the economy. That is why the aim of this priority is to contribute to the integration of the economy in border areas through the promotion of cooperation in the field of tourism, through support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and by promoting entrepreneurship. Individual objectives are to develop a recognizable tourist offer based on a common cultural and natural heritage and improve the competitiveness of the local tourism economy. Furthermore, the programme supports the development of the local economy in a way that strengthens institutions and services to promote the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises and business. The creation of a common economic space will be carried out through two measures, which are the joint development of tourism offers and promotion of entrepreneurship. The joint development of the tourism offer will offer to improve and diversify tourism products and services but also to share the marketing of these same products and services, while promoting entrepreneurship will also provide an initiative to increase competitiveness and innovation in the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector. Finally, I would like to emphasise something, which is also very important, which is that the total value of the cross-border cooperation programme between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina under the 2008 IPA cross-border co-operation component is 2 million 353,000 euros, of which about one million and 180 thousand euros are foreseen for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39903	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u39905	Let's move on, 16. The final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the financing programme for Croatia's participation in the trans-national programmes of European territorial cooperation, the European Regional Development Fund for Southeast Europe and the Mediterranean under the components of the cross-border cooperation of IPA pre-accession assistance instruments for 2008, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 431, the Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on this final bill. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill was adopted unanimously by 97 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40020	For points 23, 24, 25 and 26, we have no conditions to discuss, so we move to point 27. - Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the establishment of a fee for the work of the members of the Committee for the Decision on the conflict of interest, which is not part of the order of legislators, Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Committee has proposed a decision on the basis of Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in conjunction with Article 16 Law to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. You received the materials by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one checked in. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on that point when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40021	We move to the 23rd point of the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the fixing of compensation for the work of the members of the Accounting Committee, a decision on a conflict of interest that is not covered by the Rules of Procedure. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the decision to confirm the fee for the work of the members of the committee to decide on a conflict of interest that is not part of the agenda. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was adopted by a majority of votes, 92 votes in favour and 1 abstention and nothing against the text as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40022	Moving to point 28. - A half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2009 the Government submitted this report on the basis of Article 109. Budget law. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament therefore allow me a few words briefly on the implementation of the state budget during the first 6 months of 2009. What practice is usually when we work and represent the budget, the budget plan for next year, and also when we talk about execution we always start with a few basic macroeconomic indicators, so that's what I'm going to do today. I think everyone in this Chamber knows very well about slowing down economic activity in the first half of the year, which was -6.7 in the first quarter, however, it should also be said that in the second quarter, this decline in economic activity was somewhat lower and actually classified the Republic of Croatia side by side of all several European countries which, at the second quarter, recorded a slight decline. Surely it's not something that's causing some kind of over-optimism, but surely it's extremely important that certain negative trends start to spin. And let me also say that in turn all macroeconomic indicators in the first half of the year recorded reductions, so industrial production, and retail trade, and construction activity. All of this, of course, had direct and consequences, and in some ways it was related to the implementation of the budget in the first six months. As regards the revenue side of the budget in the first 6 months of 2009, 52 billion and 762 million kuna were collected, which is actually 8.6% lower compared to the year before, with the same period of the year before, or in nominal amounts, that would be 5 billion kuna less revenue. In doing so, of course, business revenues and, in particular, tax revenues are those that have the most impacted this execution, or realization, which is, of course, what we have pointed out several times, in fact, the consequence of this slow economic activity. The largest fall in nominal amount is recorded naturally in value added tax. It should be said that, since the beginning of the year, the imports of goods have significantly slowed down and recorded consistently negative growth rates, but in the second quarter of 2009, in general, this total personal consumption and consumption in the Republic of Croatia slowed down so that the value added tax was practically 16% lower in the first 6 months than in the same period of the previous year. The profit tax is 14.8% lower, totalling 5 billion 270 million. Excise duties also recorded a drop of some 750 million at the annual level. And if we're actually looking at other items of what should be said, so the contributions or revenues from the contributions in the first 6 months are on the index of 100 or 100,6, but there should be one particular note about what I'm going to say a little later, related to the expenditure side. You know that in the first four months and we've had that salary growth in state and public services. Therefore, this growth, i.e. the decline in income at the annual level, should certainly be seen and observed in the context of the implementation of expenditure. The expenditure of the state budget for the first 6 months was made in the amount of €58 billion 328 million, which is for some 7.9% more than the year before, if we want in nominal or numerical indicators that is 4.2 or 4.3 billion kuna. So let me just point out what were the most important things that really affected this growth, 2 actually the biggest ones. I'll start with wages, employee expenses. I said just before, so you all know very well that we had practically this year in the first quarter actually even in the payoff even in April, so the rise in salaries of government and public servants of 6%. It certainly affected the overall growth of staff expenditure and should also be said that from the items that grew more significantly in the first term were compensations for citizens and households. That includes, of course, pensions. You know that we had an indexation of pensions in April of 2.3%, and we should also mention that the state budget in this, we can say, the difficult conditions were in no way immune to the needs of the social care system so that it should certainly be mentioned that these expenditures have recorded some growth. What should also be mentioned from other items of implementation of the expenditure of the state budget are certainly financial expenditures, i.e. interest. I think that it should be said very clearly, therefore, not to mention the need to finance the government budget deficits, however, that there are certain needs and obligations to finance certain commitments from the past years, and what of course happened in the global financial markets, and in fact, the cost of borrowing, i.e. the cost of capital, has been increased in both Europe and Croatia. What is to be said, therefore, is that the following income and expenditure sizes have reached the deficit in the first term of the 6.4 billion kuna. Also, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few things because they are, of course, directly related to what happened and discussed in the Croatian Parliament, and ultimately, what the Croatian Parliament adopted, or voted for, and these are the budget rebalances for 2009. You know that we made the first rebalancing already practically in April when it was evident and clear that we would have to correct certain items both income and expenditure. You also know that we have started with significant savings on the spending side of the budget and what is extremely important to mention, so we have succeeded with the first and then with the second and third rebalancing of these negative trends from the first quarter and first term stop at the very least. First of all, this should be mentioned, so if we compare the budget of the first 6 months of this year to the same period of the past year and also when you compare the first 8 months to the same period last year. What is easy to see is that expenditure growth has been halted, however it is somewhat reduced, but of course what none of us are glad that the revenues have actually continued to record these certain negative growth rates. And you yourself know that for this reason we went with the other, or third budget rebalancing to create a public finances framework and a 2009 state budget that is sustainable, but also in some way opened up a space for quality planning and budget preparation for 2010. Also let me say something that is extremely important to say for the first semester of this year. In the execution, so I was talking about revenues and expenditures, but it should also be said that the Republic of Croatia has managed to service all its obligations to foreign creditors, first of all I refer to the commitment of 500m euros, those Euro bonds, and you know that we have had one successful issue of the euro bond on the European market of 750m euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40024	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Development and Reconstruction Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First, it's a club debate. On behalf of the club, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40025	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we heard from the State Secretary's opening statement that the total revenues of the state budget in the first half of this year were made at an amount of €52.8 million, while the total expenditure amounted to €59.2 billion at the same time. So, after a half-year's reckoning, we have a budget deficit of 6.5 billion kuna. The biggest incursion on the revenue side of the budget has been recorded in expenditure-related revenues. Thus, income from value added tax as the most important revenue of the state budget is reduced by 16%, excise tax revenues are more than 18%, income from profit tax by 15%, and income from income tax is as low as 23%. Of course, this kind of implementation of the budget is conditioned by macroeconomic developments. And all macroeconomic indicators in the Republic of Croatia in the first half of 2009 have unfortunately a negative omen. Industrial production is lower by over 10%, trade turnover is almost 15%, goods exports are down 17.5%, and goods imports are up to 26.3%. The total number of tourist arrivals was reduced in the first 6 months by 7% and the total number of overnight stays was almost 5%. Therefore, this one general contraction of economic activity has the consequence of the decline of a large number of companies, hence a large number of businesses and the depletion of a large number of jobs. The unemployment rate in June was 14% and was 1.6 percentage points higher than in the same month last year. Our dependence on foreign capital is also growing. Croatia's foreign debt reached 40 billion euros in April already. At the same time, the internal debt generated by escalating inequity exceeded 22 billion kuna. What to say when it comes to this information is that unfortunately it is not all unpaid liabilities, it is only about recorded achievements, not paid liabilities. So, it's basically just the tip of the iceberg, beneath the water is a far greater sum of outstanding debts. By saying that this amount is not entirely due to a real lack of money. She's largely immoral indifference. So, big business systems of Agrokori, the singers don't pay. Small companies are literally their hostages and there is indeed a need for the state to start taking appropriate measures. Gross domestic product in the first three months of this year, namely data for the first three months, because we do not have data for all 6 months, so for the first semester, it is actually smaller by 6.7% and the larger decline in gross domestic product in the first quarter of this year was only Baltic countries of the 27 member states of the European Union. So, Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania and our neighbouring Slovenia. The average rate of economic decline in the European Union was 4.5%. All kinds of consumption have been reduced, of course, except for the state. Thus, personal consumption was reduced by 10% and investment by 12.4%. By contrast, state spending has increased almost 4% or to be quite precise 3.9%. So it's obvious that citizens pay their taxes to the recession, and the state doesn't. And that's exactly what the biggest problem is. In this regard, the government has to deal with the current situation in the capacity and capacity of the government to deal with this situation. So, in the capacity to offer certain solutions. And what does our government do? What kind of solution does our government offer? It does not take care of citizens in this situation to make their daily life more bearable, the state unfortunately takes care of itself. How else do we interpret the government's tax-enhancing moves, so we know that we have increased VAT from 22% to 23%, the more new taxes are introduced, as we have called them, the hack. In terms of economic activity and reduced consumption, increasing existing taxes and introducing new taxes, it is not an end to recession fire, but rather an oil spill on fire. So, instead of acting rationally and saving, reducing spending first of all, by reducing the bulky public administration, the Croatian government is watching as it fills the state register, increasing budget revenues. Of course on the burden of Croatian citizens. We are witnessing that, in the same situation, other countries' governments have reduced taxes in order to preserve the level of consumption and ensure the continuity of production, in other words to protect citizens' standards and ensure the functional capacity of the real sector. And to conclude, the half-year budget calculation for the current fiscal year observed in the context of current macroeconomic achievements does not in any way give rise to the optimism that the government has calculated in the 2010 economic and fiscal policy guidelines. In fact, the surplus of optimism that does not have a foothold in the real sector, so it always has a budget deficit in economic performance and without exception. Because of this, the SDP Representatives Club does not support the 2009 State Budget Implementation Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40026	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Davor Huška. Here you go. I'm sorry, we have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, I have to look back at the statement from Councilwoman Jelas who said the government doesn't care about citizenship. That's really not true because exactly in business expenditures, the remuneration for citizens and households has just increased by a maximum of 10%. Therefore, even at this time when we know that there was indeed a time of one crisis of civil fees increased by 10%. And what fellow MPs on the left or representatives of the SDP are saying is that a hack has been introduced. It's not, it's really a solid tax with the intention and intention of this government to pay off and pensions, to have money and for the health system, for education. So you can't say that the government doesn't take care of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40028	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40029	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Chief Treasury, colleagues and colleagues. We heard from the Secretary of State a lot of information on the general state of the budget, or on the situation in the half-year budget calculation for 2008 and from the title of macroeconomic indicators and from the title of revenue or expenditure. I think it should be pointed out that macroeconomic indicators are just talking about the situation that occurred in the Croatian economy through the spillover of the financial crisis in Croatia and all the problems we face in the first six months of our business. In turn, all macroeconomic indicators indicate a decrease from a gross domestic product falling in the first quarter by 6.7% of inflation, which is 3.3%, industrial production that has been recorded at an annual rate of 10.6%. Only energy production increased by 3.4%, etc. We hope, of course, that these indicators, and this is exactly what happens in the second quarter with GDP, will reverse trend and change, so we have a decrease in GDP in the second quarter by 6.3%, which is nevertheless an indication that stagnation, crisis, or change in trend. Of course, at the end of the tourist season we expect and we already have some indicators after the first half of the year and now in the 7th, 8th and 9th months that the number of arrivals of tourists will be different in any case compared to these indicators that we have in the half-year budget calculation. Also the number of overnight stays in the final and incomes that our budget will record by the end of 2009. We see all of this together when we look at macroeconomic indicators, of course, it also causes an increase in registered number of unemployed persons, and 247 thousand unemployed were recorded in June 2009 and nearly 25 thousand increase compared to the previous year. When we talk about revenues, they are precisely resulting from what is said as the underlying cause, which is the decline in economic activity, the spillover of the financial crisis to the Croatian economy, so the total income in the first half of 2009 is 52.8 billion or 8.6% compared to the same period of the previous year. Of course, tax revenues are the most involved, so they record a 15.7% reduction at the annual level in the first term. Incomes are also reduced from value added tax but it is certain that the increase in the rate will lead to their consolidation by the end of the 2009 budget. Also income from profit tax which is almost 15% lower compared to the same period last year. On the side of expenditure, a reduction in operating expenditure is seen, i.e. an increase of € 58.3 billion, which is an increase of 4.3 billion or almost 8%. In particular, here is the achievement of the expenditure for employees who in the first six months of 2009 grew at 8.9% but certainly as a result of the increase in salaries in the first four months by 6% and in healthcare and in other branches, which has been harmonised since May and by the end of the year and there should be some stagnation. The increased expenditure on pensions due to the indexation of pensions in April by 2.3% and also increased expenditure on the social rights of our fellow citizens, which I believe none of us is against because these are categories of citizens who must have their place in the budget of the Republic of Croatia and exercise their rights regardless of the difficulties we face. All this brings together a deficit of €6.4 billion for the first six months, but despite all the problems as I have said in our funding in the first half of this year, and it is evident that this calculation of the state budget properly services all the obligations under foreign credits, regular payments in health, education, in the whole public sector are being paid, the social rights of all users as well as pensions to our pensioners, and I believe that we all know that there has been no delay in the settlement of these obligations that are precisely in the category of pensions and social rights that are most sensitive to our citizens. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with these indicators stemming from the half-year budget calculation but surely that the slowdown of gross domestic product from 6.7 to 6.3 in the first two quarters of this year gives us the right to think and think about the crisis in Croatia stagnating, that we have better times ahead and that with a completely different picture we can think about the 2010 budget. Negative trends have been mitigated in large part and measures taken to preserve macroeconomic stability through reducing the consumption of the state sector. The government of the Republic of Croatia came first, of course, and of all state and public institutions, so I remind only some. The salaries of government officials were reduced on two occasions, preferential pensions were reduced, amendments to the Law on the basis of salaries in public services, banning new employment in state administration bodies were made, and savings were made and were made from 1.3 billion kuna in all categories of material expenditure. The most important are, as we know, official travel, training of professional employees, telephone services and more. We believe that the Government will continue, surely we are in this, implementing measures, taking new measures as necessary to stop crisis movements, economic problems in the Republic of Croatia, of course through the reduction of public spending and all other activities that the Government can directly influence. The implementation of the measures should certainly continue, but special attention should be paid to the collection of claims and stronger financial discipline at all levels, meaning, starting from country to our shareholders, which we know are in difficulty at these times, but failure to pay attention to their commitments to the state budget is causing a simple cyclical movement towards all categories of budgetary users, and there needs to continue to be special supervision and pay attention to the claims of the state budget. After all, I would like to say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club that we will accept the mid-term budget calculation for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40030	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40031	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It was already during the adoption of the budget which was late for 2009, so we were already bringing it somewhere at the end of the 12th month, we warned of the unsustainability of the 2009 budgetary policy. I then said in the debate that the budget was so concise that the first rebalancing could be the first working day of 2009. It has been delayed for a long time, however, it has proved that the rebalancing must be already in the first term and the first rebalancing has been done so in the first, right after the first quarter. In fact, this showed the government's unpreparedness for the situation ahead and which was already predictable at the time, i.e. to the denial of the crisis, and today I am concerned that we are only talking about the crisis that has spread from the world to Croatia, and we are not really talking about the structural crisis of the Croatian economy and Croatian society. And such denial is a long-term unsustainable development concept and denying the need to change such a concept actually pushes us into a deeper crisis. The consequences of this were the delay in the necessary measures. The first measures, anti-crisis measures were taken late and could not give the effects they would have had had, for example, been adopted in the last quarter of 2008 and on such anti-crisis measures that the state budget would not have had any expenditure that we had for the first four or five months of 2009. Then there is a lack of structural changes that would significantly reduce state and public spending and bring it down to the real frameworks and economic opportunities that Croatia has. That this is what these three rebalances also say, which are also not adequately remedied by the consequences of the economic crisis in Croatia, but simply remedied revenues, insufficient revenues or excessive expenditures of the state budget. Thus, expenditures were intervened in the first rebalancing process, resulting in this implementation of the state budget for the first six months. What are we missing? There is no consistent approach and complete measures that would long-term impact on creating a way out of the crisis. Therefore, it should be said openly that getting out of the global economy crisis does not mean getting out of the crisis of the Croatian economy. We have a lot to do in order to make our economy progress and regulate itself or balance the revenues and expenditures of the state budget cannot make it clearly long-term. We also lack a lot about what the government should do and parliament, so the start of talks on a planned tax reform, reform of the paratax system. Now it's been a year since we made a register of non-taxable incomes, but nothing behind it has happened. We are all aware of the enormous burden of the economy which what it is today in Croatia simply is not able to bear anymore. We are also late with solutions concerning some necessary state reforms, from public administration reform, the judiciary and others. A more serious discussion should be held and a debate should be opened on the criteria for state support. They must be more selective. They should mean actually greater production, not fire extinguishing in companies or activities that simply do not have a survival on the market. Individence is becoming an ever-increasing problem. We don't talk about it, we don't ask for solutions. It's not just a solution to paying the state, we're here now talking state somewhere trying to pay it more neatly. The issue of indifference is the orderly collection of public fees. We are now in a situation where our incomes have been reduced by 5.4%, expenditures have increased by almost 8% and the question of how many unpaid public revenues. I think we should discuss this before going to increase the income side in a way that increases certain duties. Those who pay neatly, pay more and more, and those who don't pay are actually burdens. They do not even pay their suppliers at that time, and we are now in a situation that almost 60,000 employees and natural persons have unpaid orders. They have already come close to nearly 23 billion kuna, and most likely that most of it is claims, public claims for taxes, contributions and other taxes. These are people who will potentially be on the labour market in the coming months. This will require further separation from the state budget. So these are issues that should be discussed more openly. The unsustainability of the structure of the social gross product should be discussed. We will have big problems with economic growth because it is primarily based on consumption, and if it is about investment then primarily on state investments. Now that the state investments have stopped, when consumption has fallen, we simply won't be able to secure more rates in the long term, I won't say the higher than the growth rates that Croatia would need. So, the problem is a lot. We rarely discuss these problems, and I agree that there is a need to spread optimism to the public and say that in some ways we are trying to get out of the crisis. However, the measures proposed by the government and the way it actually structured them do not give reasons for optimism. We'll end this year as far as the state budget is concerned in a relatively bad situation, I'd say. However, this increase in income from the point of view of an increased VAT rate and an increase in salary taxes, pensions and now self-employed work will actually bring effects in the short term. The question of what happens when a lot of workers don't get paid neatly, there won't even be this one we call crisis tax. So, which, when wages or wages are cut, will not be paid at all, will be reduced and the turnover in the retail trade will be alimony, in fact, from that turnover is aliminate income from value added tax. So it's going to fall, too. This tourist season may have brought in slightly larger revenues, but it's short-term. The question is how should the 2010 budget be drawn up, and I think that it should be discussed on several occasions, not in one reading and in the amendments that it all comes down to a few hours. So the problems are significant. The problems will not be solved overnight and these problems should be seriously discussed in this House as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40032	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40033	I fully agree with you in the conclusion that it was a big mistake that did not recognise the existence of a structural crisis. Budgetary policy was to blame, and that's what these two rebalances say. We here in the Parliament were having endless Solomon debates whether it was a crisis or a recession. So, I mean, we really beat up the empty straw while it actually happened. As we ingenious people, then we called for help not in economics, but in physics, so we found salvation in the law of combined vessels. One vessel is the world, the other vessel is Croatia, and the crisis is passed on from the world to Croatia. So we're actually victims of a kind of crisis, a global crisis that just, which has flooded Croatia, and we can't look at what we've done to make this crisis appear here in such a deep way. And I agree with you colleagues when you say and when the crisis is over in the world that we're going to have to stay very busy and remain homework on how to solve the crisis with our resources and how to get out of that crisis. Then when we won't be able to extract ourselves to the law on merged vessels that the crisis has gone down on us. Because I assure you this will not happen with any automation. What's going on around the shipbuilding today, so we're saving up two offers, so the Deputy Prime Minister says Polancec here's what you see, and we are, the situation is even worse than we've written in the competitions. Yeah, did you see that? He's kind of boasting about it, so we're really living in a strange country, or Alice would be surprised at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40034	Thank you, Your Honor. Continuing the debate individually. There's still a distinguished representative, Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40035	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. The fact is that despite these serious economic problems, which must have been well transferred from the world economic stage to the Croatian economy, they had their consequences. However, we must make it important to point out that at no time has the government been pressured by these unfavourable economic movements to question the financing of all social and material needs of different social structures. She also had to take unpopular measures, which we are all aware of together, but ultimately we will see that these measures were necessary and very good. These measures are certain to be unpopular, i.e. pay and pension tax, then taxation of independent activities, and these measures are also important to highlight measures with a limited duration. These measures shall mean by the end of 2010 or 17 months. Also, the expenditures defined in this budget for these 6 months 2009 of 4.3 billion kuna are the result of higher pensions, salaries, healthcare, various social benefits, etc. So all these funds are very welcome to individual social structures in our country. Staff expenditure amounted to 11.2 billion kuna or 50.8% of the plan from January to June 2009. Pensions and pension income expenditures amount to 17 billion kuna or 5.9% higher compared to the same period last year, meaning for the first 6 months of 2008. There is also no negligible fee for citizens and households paid 17% more or 10.5 billion kuna, which means more compared to the first term of 2008. For social care 15.6% more or 1.1 billion children's benefits are paid 4.6% higher. That I don't take it any further because it doesn't make sense, I mean, regardless of this difficult economic situation, regardless of this crisis that must have gone too far, whether someone wanted to admit it or not and hit the Croatian economy. At no time did the government deny, according to all these social structures, their right to these compensation payments to which it has committed. It is also not against to mention various subsidies to companies, craftsmen, etc., which amounted to around 2 and a half billion kuna. All this, as well as a slight growth in employment, shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has well assessed and intervened at the right time, even with this as I have said to unpopular measures, but only to be possible, so that it does not make a wish to those catastrophes who have been calling for the financial collapse of Croatia at all times, the financial breakdown of Croatia. It has also proved to be good that the Government has not taken up any unsatisfactory proposals, so let us remember that there were suggestions that 40,000 employees should be fired who would normally be burdensome in social work centres or social assistance centres, which would further burden Croatian society, budget etc. And we also have to admit one fact, that without the help of the International Monetary Fund we are this worst I would say the recession path has passed itself. And in that part, I don't think it would be right not to support the government to continue to implement the budget by the end of the year and in some ways try to get ourselves out of these problems, because I think we are aware of what it means by the IMF, which some people are very eager for in Croatia, because we have seen opportunities, and in the end we have neighbours where they couldn't do without the International Monetary Fund, so they know what the consequences are for material, social and all the other rights in those countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40036	Thank you. Do the government's representatives want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to thank everyone who participated in the debate. He thinks that from all this that's said actually shows that with certain things we really have to be absolutely aware and Croatian citizens actually real and right to show the picture and state of things in no way at all, I said it in the first place, it's not good to send some kind of say false optimism, but in any case it's good, here and we heard it from all the representatives quite certainly that it's good to get some things real and then if they're positive in one appropriate way present. Just for one parallel, I think you all know well that the world's largest, largest economy, and I think, above all, Germany and France, their ministers and the general economy, I don't think they've ever gone so fast as to publish this data for the second quarter, where as much as a little positive trend has seen in their movements, which we can really say in this case the inflation of bad news over the past few months is certainly extremely important. But also, let me just say that from this implementation of the budget for the first 6 months, I think it is clear to all why the government and why it had to go with the proposals of the first rebalancing in the 4th month when we somehow managed to influence these negative trends on the bulky side of the constitution, and then the second and third rebalances from July, when we actually had to create one framework of sustainable public finances for 2009 and in the same way open the space for preparation 2010. I can agree, of course, that I can agree with all of this, which is said to be certain that the world's exit from the crisis doesn't necessarily have to mean or the rate of the global exit from the crisis does not necessarily mean the same speed of exit of the Croatian economy, but precisely because we are aware of this fact, we have actually gone with this more cautious approach and budget planning and have taken some of the measures that are not so popular. And let me also now say, I think it's also very important to say, and you remember very well from the end of the year, there's been a lot of suggestions, and then, of course, a criticism to the government why it wouldn't go with the foundation of various intervention funds, subsidising additional, investment in these or those sectors. So what is extremely important to say, I think it is clear to all how limited and constrained public finances are, and on the other hand, not only Croatian public finances, but in general the financial market. Here's another thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40038	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. This concludes the morning session, we continue at 3:00 p.m. on the 30th point, since for 29 we have no conditions, with the 30th point, and that is the proposal for a resolution on malignant tumours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40039	24. A half-yearly report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2009. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A half-yearly report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 67 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 29 against the adoption of a half-yearly report on the implementation of the 2009 State budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40040	We're continuing the session. I announced the point, that's 30 in a row. - The motion for a resolution on malignant tumours is proposed by the Committee on Health and Social Care. The Committee on Health and Social Care has proposed a resolution on the basis of Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail, the government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Andrija Hebrang, president of the Health and Social Care Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40041	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is an important document that we have proposed on behalf of the Committee with the intention of involving the entire social community in a very demanding, difficult and difficult fight against malignant diseases. The idea came in fact from April 2008 when the European Parliament Resolution called on the entire European Community to engage in the fight against malignant diseases. It is recommended that other members of the European Union do the same, and we, as candidates, want to enter full membership already with the greatest number of problems in this area solved. Malignant tumours are one of the leading public health problems, not only of Croatia, not only of Europe, but of the whole world. The problem is that the number of tumors in significant growth is driven by modern lifestyles, that the profession has contributed to diagnostics and treatment but the overall social community has not given a minimum to be provided. I'll tell you a few epidemiological data to figure out the weight of the problem. In the Croatian Cancer Register, in the last four registered years, the number of newly registered cases despite all the measures taken, has been constantly growing, so, for example, in Croatia, 19 thousand 839 patients have suffered from malignant tumours and 2 years later, 20 thousand 51 people, means one increase of nearly 1500 new patients, meaning 1500 lives. In the same period, the number of deaths increased, so that 12 thousand 370 people die annually in Croatia in 2003, and two years later, 12 thousand 550, so the increase was diagnosed and increased unfortunately and died. If we compare ourselves with the European countries towards Eurostat, it is an institution that monitors statistical indicators for the European Union, unfortunately Croatia is on the verge of malignancies in a high 4th place. The high incidence followed shortly after the war, likely caused by stressful situations in which a large number of our country’s inhabitants were found. What is to highlight and praise in Croatia, the profession has done everything possible, the profession has adopted standards for diagnostics, standards for treatment. The healthcare organisation has made available all forms of therapy to all patients. In medical terms, we have achieved what has been achieved by the European Union and, unfortunately, it is not enough. We have looked up to the European Union and we have proposed this Resolution to include not only healthcare professionals but the entire Croatian public from the media, through scientific institutions, particularly political organisations, administrative bodies, because their involvement can reduce the number of deaths significantly. I'm going to bring out two really amazing figures here, both of which are data from the World Health Organization that says that at least 1/3 of all tumors could be prevented, so 30% of these people should never have a tumor to get the entire public and the entire social community involved. And another information, that the next 1/3 of deaths could be avoided after the tumor had already been affected by the organism. Or when we sum up this 2/3 of these would not have died if the ideal organisation and inclusion of all social layers in the fight against tumors meant that in the Republic of Croatia, no less than 8 thousand lives would be saved. Eight thousand lives, eight thousand tragedies. This is, of course, the ideal ultimate goal, not only of Croatia but of the whole of Europe. The possibility of saving 2/3 of lives does not apply to Croatia, it refers to the entire European Union and unfortunately to the entire world population. So when we can arrange to save so many lives, we have to go seriously and dive into it, and that is why we bring and propose to bring this resolution that should only be one step in encouraging so many lives. What can be done for Croatia is a major step in prevention. In health enlightenment, in explaining the population, which means a healthy way of life that avoids tumors, which means proper nutrition with enough cellulose, which means non-smoking, which means movement, which means rest, which means stress, is all the answer for several thousand lives a year in Croatia. What we tried to encourage in the resolution was put before a respectable group of our experts who gathered at our thematic session, attended by 82 experts from all areas of protection against tumour diseases and what we are particularly proud were attended by representatives of 10 patient associations. So there were no expert discussions at this thematic session, but there were discussions that covered everything from prevention, through the profession to the social care of these patients. If I did not enter the documents you have before me in detail, I would just point out a few points from the Resolution whose aim is to invite all competent institutions from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, all health institutions, and all economic operators who produce their activities because of the lack of protection of the environment, a large number of malignant tumours. All media that could act as educators by their actions, act in terms of public education. The media penetrates our homes deeply, but they don't bring in any information about the cause of the tumor. All associations and all institutions that can contribute to the rescue of 8 thousand lives, i.e. the reduction of 8 thousand deaths annually in the Republic of Croatia. We encourage them to take all appropriate steps with regard to prevention, early detection, treatment, including rehabilitation to organise networks of palitative care institutions where we have a particularly bad situation in the Republic of Croatia. To support the organisation and financing of all procedures aimed at reducing the number of deaths of tumour diseases. To promote healthy lifestyles, to encourage public information means, I return to them for the second time, to convey information about malignant diseases and ways of avoiding them. Unfortunately, in all our actions to prevent any of these diseases, we have encountered a major barrier to the financing of these ads in the media. I think all media, from public television to all private media in Croatia, should give free space, one minimum free space for education of the population in these serious diseases. We call upon all those responsible for the protection of human rights and dignity of an oncology patient. In our case, an cancer patient has not yet found his place in society but is excluded from the bad idea that malignancy, malignancy, malignancy, incurable disease. A particularly special relationship between society and children who have suffered from malignant diseases and their families. We appeal to allow every patient to receive equally binding treatment, to have equal availability of all diagnostic and all therapeutic methods throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And also to allow equal care and assistance for the families of the sick. And not in the end, but equally important, it is a request from the Ministry of Health and Social Care which has been accepted that, in cooperation with administrative bodies, professional institutions and associations, develop a national plan and a programme against cancer in which a comprehensive solution will be proposed for all the problems that I have listed and respect all the principles laid down in this resolution with a deadline by 2010. If we adopt this resolution, then we have also joined the Council of Europe, or the European Parliament, we have also joined other parliaments of European countries that wanted to achieve 3 objectives with such resolutions. First, to announce that the problem exists, secondly to encourage all those mentioned in the resolution, which are actually all layers of society, to engage in this active struggle for human lives and the third and most important that the health system monitors not only the health aspects of the treatment of malignant diseases but the overall sociological consequences resulting from this. With those words on behalf of the promoter, I ask you to accept this resolution and let it live through our Ministry of Health, through our government, through our media and through all other institutions that decide on human lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40042	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? I see you don't. I'm opening a debate, and it's the clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40043	Dear Mr. Vice President, representative of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Here it is, on 16 June 2009, we had an extraordinary thematic session which I always particularly look forward to because the Committee on Health and Social Care through such sessions seeks to receive a message to the entire general public. Through one particular topic to be interested in her, it integrates. Of course, the data shows that we did very well because Professor Hebrang said over 80 distinguished experts, over 10 representatives of civil society were present, and I would say 10 prominent journalists from 10 journalists who followed the course of the session. I will try to convey the atmosphere of that thematic session at the beginning through statements from some speakers who said what and how he approached the problem. At first, Professor Hebrang stressed that the aim of the thematic session and the mobilization of society in the fight against malignant diseases and the taking of all activities to maintain the health of the population, reduce the risk, avoid cancer in the risk population, then early cancer detection, improve survival of the population with advanced cancer, and die without the suffering of cancer. I have to point out the prominent onkolg expert, Professor Vrdoljak, who pointed out in his presentation that actually investing in oncology is investing in the economy because early detection would reduce mortality by 3% and by introducing modern techniques of treatment by 20% to 25%. It continues, he says, at an annual level with a good oncology fight can result in healing or prevent death, as the professor said 6 to 8 thousand people. This approach means cancer becomes a chronic, not a deadly disease. So the approach must be multidisciplinary and permeated by broad social action. I must also mention the State Secretary's presentation, Dr. Golem, which mentioned five priorities in the national strategy for early cancer detection. He mentioned breast cancer, colorectal cancer, uterine cancer, ovarian cancer and prostate cancer. And as far as oncology itself is concerned, he stressed that it has evolved into subspecialist branches, meaning interstitial, radiological, surgical. And he emphasized that it is very necessary in this power for psychooncologists to teach patients to live with diseases. The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs Zeljka Antunovic, pointed out at the beginning of a very high-quality debate on the principle of care for medicinal products for all sufferers and highlighted a resolution in the European Parliament since 10 April 2008. I must also mention Professor Rainer, who pointed out that tumors are the second cause of death, right behind cardiovascular disease. Cancer mortality has increased, he says, despite many cancers being treatable, e.g. breast cancer. Therefore, the emphasis is on prevention. early detection of cancer which is a matter of wider social community. He particularly advocated as Professor Hebrang mentioned for the establishment of a centre of arson, and education, says we do not have enough oncologist radiotherapist. I will mention only the presentation of Professor Ostojić, only one thought he said that 35 people die daily from cancer and insists on his good practice of health education and investment in people in terms of quality education. I especially remembered Professor Katičić, our top expert in colorectal cancer, who complained of two things. She pointed out that in the face of colorectal cancer, there are two problems. She complained of insufficient equipment in early detection, and the second moment stressed that there was a low patient response to that search, only 21%. And here I'm going to point out that the response to early breast cancer research today is 56%, and it would be at least 70%. Hebrang and Registrar mentioned the Croatian Institute of Public Health Cancer. Namely, the number of newly registered malignant tumours between 2003 and 2006, increased from 19,000 to 20,000 to 51. The number of deaths from malignancies in the same period increased from 359.1 in 2003 to 373.4 in 2006. World Health Organization data suggest that at least one third of all malignant tumours could be cured if the tumor was discovered earlier. The condition for saving two-thirds of the lives of malignant tumours, for the Republic of Croatia, means this as we emphasized 8 thousand lives a year, where in implementing preventive measures, including health promotion and education, these diagnostic methods of quality breakthrough in healthy populations. And what does cancer really mean by preventing the development of cancer? Preventing means enlightening the population, changing lifestyle, eating, smoking. Last week, a respected colleague, Doric, mentioned... The lung cancer, just when we were talking about the tobacco product law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the conditions of the working environment and the like. And prevention is the cheapest way to fight cancer, because the treatment of advanced stages is more expensive than prevention and breakthrough as part of it. Therefore, it is particularly important to perfect scientific evaluation of diagnostics, procuring treatment, or selecting the most favourable from the crowds offered. So in the fight against cancer, an entire community must be involved to achieve optimal results. In addition to the Croatian Parliament, the Government and other administrative institutions and the entire health system, it is necessary to include other social institutions and economic operators, civil society associations that will raise awareness of the need to take steps to improve cancer control. And that through the first, health educational programs, means campaigns, intelligence, education according to specific groups. And three, information on the prevention of early detection of diseases or the highlighted adaptation of the entire health system based on new expertise and scientific knowledge. Public information is also of great importance. And finally, I will highlight the presentation of a prominent journalist in retirement, Mr Ursic, who introduced himself from Split to come, who thanked all the medical workers, because he got away with this dangerous disease. And what's interesting is he looked at the gallery where the journalists were, after, I have to remember now, otherwise the debate lasted 3 hours 10 minutes, they disappeared from that debate after 15 to 20 minutes. Obviously, the subject wasn't attractive. So he appealed, he himself, I speak for him, more interested in the media, because at the end of the second day when I asked the media about this very important thematic session, I barely found anything small that we talked about there. I'm thanking you. The Croatian Democratic Union will support the resolution on tumours.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40044	Thank you. Now you should speak on behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on behalf of the club. And it's on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative and vice president of House Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40045	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Immediately at the beginning, he wants to welcome without continuance and without delay the adoption of a resolution on malignant tumours. Allow me a little personality, not only to greet her personally, but I am extremely pleased that we have come to this relatively acceptable period, it seems to me to be an extremely important document. In fact, just over a year ago, the European Parliament adopted such a similar document, prompted by the fact that malignant tumours are taking more and more lives in all the Member States of the European Union. The World Health Organization is working systematically on this problem, but there are politicians in developed countries who have come to the realization that this problem and the increasing mortality of malignant tumours should be given a little more attention, and that political weight that depends on how much funds we will allocate to combat cancer. This kind of document means and marks and has another advantage, which is the systematic approach to combating this kind of health problem, with this kind of disease, which I will repeat, unfortunately takes more and more lives. Statistics also show that more and more young or younger people die from malignant diseases. The controversy about the need for real quality health care and also the fight against cancer is constantly taking place. And I think we usually have good discussions, we have good ideas, but we have quality knowledge that we can get better results in healing or prevention. However, our practice is deviating us from it. And that fact of consciousness about it, it must encourage us to try as much as possible to reduce this gap between practice and declarative attitudes and advocacy, and again I believe that this document is one of those documents that will contribute to it. The data for Croatia is devastating. At the mortality rate of malignant diseases, Croatia is in the highest fourth place among the European Union countries and the most common sowing of cancer is lung, colon and breast. Some of the occurrences, some of the forms of this cancer went forward and in terms of prevention of early detection but also treatment. However, some of the forms of cancer almost 100% in size cause mortality and that is what really needs to be serious and what needs to scare us in some way but also to encourage a more effective action. What I fully support and welcome this resolution and what I want to stress is my sincere fear that this resolution will not happen to become another text, another good document that has been adopted in this House and that the implementation of all those further activities, measures, implementation of these measures, operational, executive measures, is happening too slowly because every moment is important, every progress of Croatian health in terms of early detection, treatment and palitative care saves lives. And that's what's important to keep in mind. Any progress means one life more. Let me give an example or a short story I recently heard. A middle-aged man about ten years ago lost his wife. She died of breast cancer. That was ten years ago. If this woman had suffered today, she would have survived, and she would have been cured permanently given the type of diagnosis she had then and of which unfortunately, despite every effort of the doctor and full care, she had failed to survive. I stress this because science is progressing, what methods of early detection but also treatment are significantly changing, they are making significant progress, and I also think that we are a country that does not have unlimited resources when we talk about it and that then we need to be extremely rational, we need to rationalise our entire system in order to channel as much resources as possible into diagnosis, treatment and palitative care. This declaration must become a key that will trigger the overall mobilization of state institutions, associations and citizens, patients, all of us who are potential patients, potential patients. First, we raise awareness among citizens about the meaning of prevention and prevention of malignant diseases. This resolution should be a key that will open all necessary doors to allow the availability of early diagnostics and treatment but also rehabilitation of patients. We must also not forget the palitative concern because often times the medical conditions of which the known methods of combating this disease have become actually lonely, left to the members of their families and those who may not often and without this minimum, without a warm human word at the end of their life journey. And I will repeat, even though everything this resolution points to, everything we expect in the future from the Croatian health system costs. We have to give these costs priority. Each investment saves one life and is actually an investment in people in this country and people are a guarantee of development and the future. We must not ignore the fact that in Croatia, about 21,000 people die annually from cancer and about 13,000 people die. It's the size of a town called Trogir. In Croatia, a whole island of the size of the island of Brac dies of cancer annually. I am also pleased that it is definitely visible from the process of preparing this resolution and today in these first discussions that this resolution is not and will not become a place to grind party weapons and competition who will collect more political points. This is a document in which we must show unity and responsibility and be aware that we are at the beginning of a long and difficult journey, or that this resolution is only the first sentence of a long book called a hard fight against malignant diseases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40046	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, she is a respected representative of Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40047	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. The document ahead of us The resolution on malignant tumours is a very well-conceived document made up of the document that was adopted last year in the European Parliament and there is really no reason why we should not do so. Someone said that if you consider how much of a health problem you've been facing lately that this resolution is a gunshot to the ground I have to say that I absolutely disagree with that kind of thinking. I think we should be optimistic and believe that this resolution will launch some projects that have not come to life regardless of which existing legislation is already foreseen. I believe that by adopting the resolution we will not be declarative of what it says and that, as Professor Hebrang said, all the competent institutions in the state will unite to take the greatest effort to prevent, in early detection and treatment of tumours and, of course, all with the goal of reducing the number of patients and deaths of malignancies. Professor Hebrang also spoke of preventing the primary and secondary ones that are extremely important. I would just like to remind you that in Croatia everything is spent somewhere around 3% of the budget on prevention. We agree on that, that's a little bit. In this year's recession, it would be expected that someone could reach further for funds that are otherwise reserved for prevention. I hope and appeal to the Ministry of Health and Social Care not to let that happen. Last year, the state began cutting budgets that were planned for prevention. And as you know well all together, local and regional self-government units were in some way forced if they had sensitivity and money to finance programs and projects that are of great importance to citizens. Just to remind you, I come from the city and county that have recognised their role in the importance of this issue for citizens and have funded a number of public-health programmes that some of them are preceding today's national programmes and have been successfully implemented, for example. by the School of Public Health. Just to remind you that the Primorje-Gorski County was the first county in Croatia to begin with a preventive programme of early breast cancer detection in women. It is a project that later grew into a national programme, which started in 2006 at the level of my city of Rijeka and Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and which became a national programme in 2006. There are other programmes that started in Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County, such as prevention and early detection of colon cancer. It's a program that started in 2006. So both Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County have heard, and all the happiness and money they have made possible the implementation of these programmes that I have mentioned and many others for which I now have no time, which have saved hundreds of lives. But what about the other environments? I think that's the point of what I'm trying to say, that resolutions must have, therefore, national strategies and national programmes, must have secured funding in the state budget in order to satisfy, I would say, the principle of availability of healthcare as a category guaranteed by the Constitution to every citizen of this country. Now I would like to talk about something that I believe is an extremely big problem in Croatia today, something also mentioned by Professor Hebrang, as well as colleague Antunovic speaking on behalf of the SDP club. It is the care of dying or terminal patients, i.e. paliative care. Why is this a big problem in Croatia today? The big problem is that it doesn't exist. That's the basic reason why it's a problem. We don't have a palitative concern, we don't have the palitative care of a field guy, and we don't have any more or less palitative care of a stationary guy. I would like to remind you that the National Strategy Programme sets out that bilateral care and hospice should be an integral part of available healthcare until the end of 2008. I would also like to remind you that paralytic care is a fundamental civil and human right to health care that must be included in the health system. Palitative care, for example, is part of the right to health care in 120 countries of the world and is part of the European Union's legislation. And while, I believe you know, most developed countries have modern hospice hospitals, Croatia no longer even has geriatric departments. While in European and transition countries volunteers represent only the assistance of teams of professionals, we have actually been working on the principle of volunteering for years. It's interesting, for example. that the palitative concerns have almost all the countries in the region, that you have palitative concerns in Sarajevo, Tuzla, Vitola, Skopje, Belgrade. I am afraid that in Croatia today we are struggling with an elementary understanding of palitative care at all levels and therefore we do not need to be surprised that it is in Chapter 19. The Republic of Croatia, in order to join the European Union, needs to be clarified by the very part relating to accessibility, quality and sustainability of the provision of palatable care. Today, patients, so adults and children, let’s not neglect the whole story and children with severe illness, so today patients in the terminal stage of the disease are rarely hospitalized, but most often such patients are left with family care, which is sometimes an unbearable burden for the family. And the question arises in the end and whether the family can and can take on such a heavy burden. Let us not forget that there are few children in this family and that such situations can leave children with very serious psychosocial consequences. I'll say next. The Department of Health and Social Care of the City of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County is on several occasions over many years, and I was headed by the Department of Health and Social Care six, I know that for six years we have been trying to establish contact with the Ministry in terms of asking permission to open a stationary type of palitative care in Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County. With great regret, I must say that we have not come across the understanding of the ministry, although we have never asked the Ministry for finance, only permission to give the citizens of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County the kind of protection they are entitled to Croatian legislation. Today we have two mobile teams in Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County. We're the first city, and we're the first county to form two mobile interdisciplinary types on the ground today that provide palitative care. It's just one small but insufficient step in this kind of health care that we owe citizens. In the future, I hope that the local self-government and ministry units will be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40048	Thank you. We have one correction of the alleged honourable representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jerkovic said in the context of a debate on palitative concern that the care for dying patients in our system does not exist, it is an incorrect assumption, of course I may consider that it may not be enough, but I would like to remind you as a doctor of the family medicine that there is a health care provider in the house, who has a service, which provides these people in that apartment when it comes, that every day a professional can come to him and provide it. Of course, the proposal is for this resolution to mobilise all forces, as the president said. Hebrang and the family that should be a fundamental unit and in my midst, that family is working and it helps these people but we certainly concentrate on this Resolution that seeks to mobilise all these segments of course and health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40050	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Željko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40051	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would refer to my colleague, Jerkovic, in this particular segment of which a colleague spoke in his correction of an incorrect quote, a colleague of mine did not want to say how much she contributed to the launch of a hospice team in Rijeka, a mobile team and a colleague in Croatia did not really have a palitative concern that was resolved systematically, which was resolved in a way that every citizen who needed it in Croatia and estimated that 9000 of them would be available in Croatia for real palitative medicine. Of course, there is no one in Croatia who will not support this resolution, but I do call for it not only to be a letter on paper but to show its application immediately on two examples in practice. It is a health education that is crucial to reduce the number of malignancies and to finally introduce health education in Croatia and others to immediately approach the amendment of the Health Protection Act and regulate the issue of paliatical medicine, not only mobile teams present in Rijeka and costing millions of kunas, which many cities cannot afford, but also a stationary type that is not allowed under the current Health Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40052	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate, it's Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Statistics are never very grateful to speak primarily when it's as bad as malignancies, but we have to repeat 57 of these daily identified new malignancies, 35 of the dead, which confirms that number of 21 thousand patients per year, 13,000 of the dead who were colleagues before me. Of course, in the world too, we have a bad indication that we are 4th to mortality in Europe, and even with regard to malignant lung cancer we are 2nd after Hungarian in Europe, which may be necessary to connect with some other moment, and it was a short time ago that we had a discussion about limiting the use of tobacco products, perhaps it is good to think a little bit in that part. Of course, in the world statistics are no better, and this indicator is certainly what the World Health Organization says that it is possible to prevent 1/3 of these cures from surely giving us the obligation to concentrate even more effort in this fight all together and to mobilise ourselves as Professor Hebrang said. Because if we remember that 95% of testicular cancer is treatable, 75% also, so these are very good indicators and that should give us an even stronger motive for further participation in this very difficult struggle. The European Parliament as we have heard and the Council of Europe has adopted Resolution 2008 we now thank God we are ahead of the adoption of that Resolution in which we are all said not to repeat ourselves, there is nothing new to add, but I would certainly focus on this point 6 which says out of those 18 points that we have all read and seen says "I encourage public information tools to convey information on malignant diseases and ways to avoid the risk of early detection of the treatment of these diseases". I really think that's what the predecessors said and that it's necessary, and now that we remember this campaign about the smoking ban, etc., that man has asked himself a lot of times, so what's going on here, I really think we need attention. And a special moment not to repeat myself is also point 18, which says that the same Ministry of Health and Social Care in cooperation with administrative bodies, professional judges and associations is developing a national plan, etc., and this programme, against cancer. The ministry therefore launched the early detection programme for breast cancer in 2006, which shows some results in Sweden, for example, for 20 years now, and shows outstanding results. But I also need a desire to highlight here the work of associations which also make an unmistakable contribution in that part that are extremely active, and also mention Donna, Jarod, Nada, etc., I am pleased to highlight the activity of our League to fight the work in the Koprivnica-Crission County in my midst, which has been making an extraordinary effort to obtain equipment for years, etc., education and now this latest action with the community of women Katarina Zrinski in terms of education and vaccination against the HPV virus will certainly contribute to that part and that each of us is invited to mobilise even more and to make an even greater contribution to this fight that is ahead of us and we believe that we can achieve the result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40054	Thank you. It's next, the distinguished representative of Brankica Crljenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Speaking of Resolution on Malignant tumours and diseases of the accent in my debate, I will put the importance of organising palitative care in the Republic of Croatia. Paliative care or care for patients facing fatal illness is the right that Croatian citizens must receive under the law, but in practice the dying patient and family are left to themselves without the support of the health system. Paliatical care is to relieve physical and mental pain and relieve other problems faced by the family of patients who have only a few weeks or months to live. In Croatia, as we have heard annually, about 20,000 people suffer from cancer, about 13,000 die, a large number of them who, in the terminal stage of the disease when official medicine can no longer help them remain left alone and their helpless family who does not know how to help them until the divorce. Employees of the dying family do not have the right to be sick because of the care of a patient who has already been fired from the hospital department because he has no help, and there is no hospital centre in all of Croatia. Only private homes and private care services are left that rarely anyone can pay. A third of oncology patients in recent days have received intensive departments in hospitals where they die surrounded by medical devices instead of family members, and support in fear and pain is far from what they would need at these moments. Although the Health Protection Act stipulates that mobile care teams must be in each home of health in major cities and regional centres, and the living room and legal provisions are ignored for years, so citizens are deprived of their rights. Paliatical care is part of the right to health care in 120 countries of the world and part of the European Union's legislation. The hope remains that our government too will force negotiations to join the European Union to give its citizens that right. It is interesting that the Paliatical Care Institutions have all the countries in the region. They exist in Belgrade, Sarajevo, Tuzli, Skopje, Bitoli. The hospital "Croatian Pride" in Knin actually has all the conditions to become the first such centre in Croatia with minimal financial resources. It is in this department that persons are placed at a terminal stage who are not for the hospital of the acute type, and they need medical supervision. That's where the hospital is actually taking on a paralytic care. Human life is one and unrepeated and every human being has the right to end it in dignity. A worthy end to life is made possible by the actions and attitudes of a modern hospice movement that has formed a palitative concern for those who are approaching their life ending. The Imperative is the financing and development of a plan of health activities involving preventive, curative and palitative treatment. In the Government of the Republic of Croatia’s 2008-2011 programme, Chapter 17. – Health care, hospital treatment is an item. Palitative care and hospice to be included in the health system, deadline: December 2008. In Chapter 19 of the Accession Report, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to inform the European Union of the availability of healthcare for particularly vulnerable groups, and to submit a report on the availability, quality and sustainability of the provision of palitative care in the Republic of Croatia and on the possibilities of its evaluation. Unfortunately, I will repeat the Republic of Croatia in all its territory there is not a single modern institution of palitative care involved in the health system as well as a developed system of education in the field of palitative care at all levels. In accordance with the above, I believe that palitative concern is one of the fundamental human rights. Paliative care must be included in the health policy of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. Paliatical care must be based on the principles of availability and equality regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, social status and the ability to pay for services. Healthcare professionals must be adequately educated in the field of paliatical medicine. Family members and non-healthy volunteers as important factors in providing palitative care must be recognised and strengthened by the government policy of the Republic of Croatia. They are dying of cancer and, unfortunately, more and more each year, those who most often need palitative care because they often suffer from unbearable pains at the end of their life. Some of them are fortunate to be admitted to the hospital at that time, which in some ways facilitates the suffering of their families who often do not know how to treat a patient properly. Others stay at home in the care of family or private care, and some live in private homes, which is a very expensive solution. Quality Palitative Care would mean that in each region there must be a hospice building with rooms for lying patients as well as a living room for those who can still move. Psychological counselling not only for the dying but also for his family, and mobile visitation teams, for those who still decide to die in their own home. In order for a person to be an employee or volunteer of a palitarian care system to really have unlimited strength and a great heart, for as much joy as it brings to a person's coming to the world, it is so sad to be sent away, and the satisfaction is not as much in knowing that someone is allowed to die with as little suffering and pain as possible. And finally to conclude. I certainly support the adoption of this resolution by believing that we will take a step forward and in establishing a centre for hospice in the Republic of Croatia to raise the quality of life for people with malignant diseases in the last phase of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40056	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40057	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I have to correct Mrs. Branko Crlenko's quote that part of the dying patients remains in the hospital, and one good part of such people is left to their families. That's really not true, Mr. Blackie. I have to say, but I know that you know very well that the General Hospital, or the General Hospital in Knin, has the status of a general hospital. We also know that this hospital accepts the largest number of doctors, in fact, the largest and the most they can from the domain of treatment and that I certainly agree in one with you and that's to see what the space is to make life easier for these people. But that is definitely not true because we are witnessing that doctors respect the needs of such patients to the greatest extent possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40058	Thank you. And we have an important representative, Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40059	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When you manage to sum up 30 of us here in the assembly, including those of you who are chairing, it is truly devastating if we know that we, God forbid it will not be like that, but almost a dozen die from tumors. Thus, the second most important cause of death truly deserves one such approach and discussion in this House. It was an honor to attend this thematic session of which Professor Dr. Hebrang and the other MPs, and now I've certainly signed up to give this small, modest contribution that this resolution would be adopted and that at least one of us here would be less and all the others who would die of the tumor would therefore be less targeted by such a vicious disease. Croatia has recognised the tumor as such for a long time, so it has been since '59. It's been established a cancer register since '94. Today, this cancer register is also set up internationally, within the international association, that is, the Association of Cancer Registers and that is why Croatia has recognised this problem and in some ways tried to deal with it as best it can. So we know that the tumor is like such and generally a disease and personal and family, and when we talk about tumors and a national problem, we can freely say planetary. He's both economic and medical and I repeat the general human. I would also return to the emphasis in this promotion, pardon and in this declaration and in the exhibitions that we have heard here from my colleagues and colleagues. It all comes down to respected colleagues and colleagues to prevention. So if we do everything we can to do, and we can do a lot of things, so even if we agree to this data, that is, if we accept it to the knowledge that Professor said. Hebrang that a third of the tumor can be avoided at all, and a third that can also be successfully treated then again the answer is either primary or secondary, but in prevention. That in a certain way we have an agreement here, that's obvious. So there is no difference between us here and if we visit the Croatian Institute for Public Health, then we will see that they also have a special service that is responsible for promoting health and prevention of general illness. Also if we see, look there, then we will see that they focus on health education in general, then on everything we've been saying here, and that's one I'd say the joint effort of both the public and the media and simply everything that does the activity of promoting health and changing the way we behave, harmful behavior and accepting the challenge of a healthy life. So non-smoking, non-sitting, no, no kind of risk as such and should actually become a challenge to a healthy life and to promote such a life. Of course it's a question and legislation, a question and a multidisciplinary approach because we can't just talk about this problem from a medical point of view, it's a problem and I don't know our diets, it's a problem and food industries and agriculture, and we said education and everything else. However, he is above all, I must say, a problem in our heads, in our understanding of the disease in general and in our approach. So as much as we want to criticize the system and not be satisfied with it, or rely on the system, the health system as such, but the basic problem in this case is the acceptance and understanding of the individual and his responsibility for his own health. There is no system in the world that can keep you from your own risky behavior and there is no nation, no nation that can achieve results with any resolution, no health system can achieve results unless there is a change at that individual level in behavior. It is simply a very important turn, so many of us here from the 10 that I was just talking about can choose health rather than choose disease. Therefore, it is up to us to really invite everyone, especially our media, to do everything, and to make an additional effort to bring this resolution back to life and, most importantly, to accept it on our own individual level. Finally, my brief consideration of the presentation of my dear colleague, the esteemed Mrs. Crlenko, who spoke beautifully. However, I would just say that when we talk about palitative concern, I think it is very important to say that we have a certain small difference in approach. And that's quite, what you're saying is acceptable, but there is also a different approach in a certain way, and that is that today man is increasingly accepting to be born into a family, so then I don't know either, you know that it's getting more and more stretching I don't know, and that's the first I think they've done in Australia, etc., and then almost everyone has accepted that I don't know that the world can come into the family environment too because you can ensure I don't know everything you need and then you still avoid not knowing possible infections in hospital or this or that etc., and the risks of also controlled pregnancy can be reduced to a minimum. Also, leaving this world can be made truly dignified or perhaps even more dignified and less painful in the family. So what my colleague Milinkovic said, I support this position, so Croatia needs to develop a system that will ensure quality access to health care, health care in a house where this trinity and family and health care, health care and the environment of the family in the home will provide people with as little suffering and dignified death as possible, because no matter how much we have made this life beautiful and fought for it one day, we still have to go on the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40060	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Andrija Hebrang, president of the Health and Social Care Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40061	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank all the participants for this useful debate, for supplementing the reason for this resolution and for the proposals that have been made. Maybe just a little further to expand the importance of the resolution, but also to point out that we have done a lot in Croatia, we haven't slept much. We've done a lot of work. I'll remind you that the fight against smoking began during the war. I remember when our soldiers laughed at me on the battlefield about why I passed smoking ban laws, and I said because it takes 30 years of law-making and education to achieve the first results. So we went into prevention and other tumors. For example, smoking causes one quarter of all deaths in the European Union, although there is a fight against smoking and legislation and in terms of public promotion education, etc. They've been watering for many years. I would mention colon cancer, which is a major problem in Croatia, in second place by frequency. We introduced an early detection that didn't give very good, so early diagnostics, didn't give very good results, and we're going to have to make a sharp change in it. But that's why I would mention the first two years of early breast cancer diagnosis plan that just ended, so for the first two years, where the target has already been reached for 50% of the female population of the age observed to respond to mammography, and we will surely achieve the campaign goal in the next two years, which is that breast cancer mortality decreases by 30%. This is therefore the first task in the first four-year period and this programme is going well. What's wrong is that in Croatia we actually have a big difference in accessing malignant tumors in certain parts of the country. I'll mention it, for example. that the total number of tumours, but also the dead, per 100,000 inhabitants is incredibly different in the county. He's an example. in Bjelovar-Biogorje County, 30% less than for example. in Brod-Posavina. Of course, there are many sociological and economic and problem migration, etc., reasons but we must go to the least possible extent and differences, and that every citizen and every citizen of this country, regardless of their living, has the same chance of salvation. In the end, the most debate was about palitative concerns. We have to say that there are two approaches. One is the stationary residence of these patients in the terminal phase, and the other is for home treatment and healthcare in the house. I think that all those who have criticized and proposed solutions are right, we must have both systems. For those who have the opportunity in the family to honorably end their lives should be allowed care in the house, for those who do not have such conditions should be made possible as colleagues said, stationary conditions. But all this and everything else that needs to be done we have translated into this resolution, especially at the last point in which we call on the Ministry of Health and Social Care to respond and participated in the development of a resolution to develop a national plan and a programme to fight malignant tumours. What does the program mean? This means precisely setting tasks, executioners and deadlines. We expect such a programme with such strict objectives, deadlines for execution to be set by Croatia in European countries and in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40062	I thank and conclude the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40063	25. Proposal for a resolution on malignant tumours. Proposer of the Committee on Health and Social Care. The debate is closed. I am voting on a motion for a resolution on malignant tumours. Please engage and vote on this resolution, of course. Here, let's get involved and vote. The result? This resolution on malignant tumours was adopted unanimously in the Croatian Parliament with 98 votes for, nothing against, nothing abstentions in the text as proposed by the Health and Social Care Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40064	Moving to point 31. - Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINE from 01 May 2008 to 30 April 2009. Carrier of the Administrative Council of HINE. This report was submitted by the Administrative Council of HINE pursuant to Article 14, the HINE Act. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah? Oh, no? Yeah. Honored Ante Drpić, member of the Governing Council of HINE. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40065	Thank you, Vice President. So, I am Ante Drpić, member of the HINE Board of Staff and I welcome you right in front of the employees' ranks. On behalf of Croatian news agency HINE, which today broadcasts about 570 titles through 18 of its general and specialized services daily in Croatian and English. We also provide multimedia services, we have our own photo service so-called. FAH, we have a database, there are 162 constantly employed by 120 journalists and editors and about 60 journalists and correspondents who are in part-time status and occasionally work and report to us. Here, you have the report you've all received, it's our legal obligation to report to the Parliament every year, the Croatian Parliament which is our founder, on our work, according to the HINA Act. That report consists of 3 parts. He has a report on the work of the administration, a report on financial operations and a report on HINE's editorship. I can only tell you that for this period that we are now submitting the report, so it's been a year, that HINA has completed its business with 311,000 kuna 640 extra income on expenditures and that we have put those funds into our reserve. There's a Mrs. Director with me that you can and we're ready to answer every question you ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40066	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? The Committee on Information, Information and Media? No, I don't. The Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the representatives' clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40067	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Croatian news agency, fellow MPs. So the Croatian news agency survived its adulthood and recently turned 19. During these 19 years, the Croatian news agency has proven its high professionalism in providing objective and reliable information on which media and all users of this service can still rely. The Croatian news agency broadcasts daily in Croatian and English through 18 of its services and information database, which we also heard earlier, and provides multimedia services. The total work whose basic values are accuracy, impartiality and speed is carried out by 162 HINE employees. Industrious work has increased the number of text and photo information by 30,000 compared to the previous reporting period, which has contributed to an increase in revenue by 13.82%. The Croatian news agency in light of the general financial crisis did not remain spared. It has reduced budget assets and reduced income from the service user. It is commendable that they themselves began to implement austerity measures in time to preserve the jobs of their journalists, editors, and other employees. Not to exceed this report, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports in view of the high standard of quality and professionalism in Croatia to the news agency, which could serve numerous media and similar services, which have largely lost their compass in respect of the basic values of journalistic profession and professionalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40068	Thank you. And we have two individual applications. The first is the Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40069	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the honored representatives of HINA. I had to say a few words about this report because our National Reporting Agency has shown itself again and under scarce material conditions can work well and quality. Several indicators first of all from the financial business and the total product of HINA. So, 279 thousand text and photo information, almost 30,000 more than in the previous report, a thousand 200 news editors' shifts, 20 thousand of their own photographs from their own production, is a huge job that has been done with extraordinary financial results in a very difficult year in which incomes have been significantly reduced compared to planned ones. So business revenues from the previous year have increased by 12%, but expenditure has increased by less than 11.4% and the result and such good governance is actually this good financial report. On the expenditure side, it is evident that special care is being taken about material costs and costs on services. Material costs have been reduced compared to the previous period in certain paragraphs up to 5 % and above. For example. transport services are reduced even by 28%, PTT service 2%, maintenance service 9%, etc., etc. to the total cost of services reduced by an enviable 5% in one-year business. What should be pointed out is that there are reduced benefits for and all expenditure for employees, also 5.5% lower, which is for a time of crisis and within the framework of anti-recession measures is a very good contribution. But as for the quality of work, I would point out one feature of the news that we received from HINA and which differs, unfortunately differs from most of our other sources of information. There's a nice line about the work of the office here that I'm going to read. "It must always be clear what or who is the source of the information, and that the principle of the other side will be respected." This means that one information respects opinions and sides that do not agree with the starting information, that the possibility of what is called objective truth, objective information, and indeed as it is said here in the turbulent times that our media is going through, unfortunately more rarely and less, we have objective information involving attitude and different opinions. Therefore, we should commend this business and professional orientation of HINA and propose to all our media to start producing the news that has been verified, not to read on our cover 10cm high false announcements that we must then deny the second day, but rather to try the ethics of a high-end journalism profession to bring to the level of civilized countries. I therefore congratulate HINA on this financial report in difficult circumstances and on this overall work done, but above all on the professional approach of objective information. And that's why I think the report should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40070	Thank you. It's the honorary representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40071	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There is much that Dr Hebrang said in his address, but at the beginning I would like to say that HINA is actually a successful Croatian product and that it should be congratulated on what has been done over the past 19 years, next year will be the 20th anniversary of work. This report shows something other than financial indicators which, of course, are perhaps the most interesting at the moment, which is the value of HINA and their correspondence network covering almost the whole world, and what is particularly important to us is that HINA's information is available from all over the country. What's already been said, I don't think it's a waste of time, which is that over the years HINA has become a synonym for objective and rapid transmission of information and despite these reduced resources that are visible in this financial report, I think it has nevertheless maintained stability and quality in business and reporting. Although this is why some of the activities HINA had to slow down, I think it will continue to support it, of course, in line with the possibilities of the state budget. First of all, it's about the documentation HINA took from "The Vesnik" two years ago, so the documents "The Vesnik" were attached to HINA. documentation that is of paramount importance. It represents a valuable base, primarily a base from which we can create new values. It also includes twenty years of written memory, written content that appeared on the premises of the Republic of Croatia, and these projects that HINA is planning and that's where it started to develop, but as I said it slowed down a little because of financial opportunities, I think it would be a good service for the whole country. And the documentation is that it is very important and is available to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Given that HINA celebrates 20 years of work next year, it will hopefully be a new round business cycle and will also continue to maintain independence, objectivity, impartiality, what we would all like in the Croatian media space. High professionalism is the same thing that we can talk about, and this is evidenced by the acquisition of agency news, which is equally well shown in this report. Support for the work of the Croatian news agency in any case is unquestionable, and the development of a project to create a national media database, so by connecting HINA's information base "Eva" and newspaper documentation "Vjesnika", it should continue. I will also remind you that it is a project that was assessed in last year's parliamentary debate as a project to preserve Croatian cultural heritage or, as we like to say, by preserving collective memory. In any case, I think we should support this report with one note only, in order to like to have in the next report a detailed description of the activities and measures of the Governing Council, in order to actually find out what the Governing Council was doing during the reporting period. Anyway, I'm giving my congratulations and I'm going to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40072	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40073	Thank you, Mr. President. I also join colleagues and colleagues who spoke here we can tell affirmatively about HINA and we can also say that HINA has indeed become a Croatian brand, so it is recognizable and in this respect it is of exceptional importance for all Croatian institutions, for the Croatian public, but I would also say about every Croatian man wherever he lives. Since we have discussed this report on our Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, and since we have said it there, that in this debate, this is what I am saying here, I would only encourage the further Administrative Council of HINA to make sure that to a greater extent this relationship and cooperation with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia can be improved. So you're doing it and I know it and you're trying in these circumstances to do as much as you can. However, the importance of mutual information from Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in Croatia and the Croatian public about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is I think of the priority interest, especially if we bear in mind that including Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina outside the Republic of Croatia live at least so many inhabitants in the world. Therefore, the prerequisite for any other co-operation of the so-called emigrated and native Croatia as well as Croatian national minorities and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is good and quality information, connection. So, I'm talking about this precondition both economically and every other one, including that political one. Therefore, my brief debate should go in favour of HINA's support, its stability and its future, in the sense of this in which colleague Glavan spoke. And happy birthday to her future and present, but also with one request so that she is even more committed to bridging these distances between Croatians living in Croatia and those outside the Republic of Croatia. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40074	Thank you. The final review of the director of HINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40075	I'd just like to thank everyone on behalf of me, my colleague has authorized me to be a member of the board of directors, and I can really say at the end of your presentation that just 15 days ago we connected more radios from Australia that networked themselves there and came together to HINA. It took about two months, but in the end we did it all together, so it's in my jurisdiction that it's more than, I think it's running errands, and that's why I wanted to inform you now. Nothing, thank you all on behalf of me and in the name of the Administrative Council, and I really hope that the Croatian Parliament will protect us, so I would say, as our founder in this situation, even though we understand the crisis situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40076	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40077	26. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINE from 01 May 2008 to 30 April 2009. The applicant is the Administrative Council of HINE. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. It shall be noted that the annual report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINE from 01 May 2008 to 30 April 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 90 votes for, 2 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40078	We're moving on to the next point. - The report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the legal authority of the Government has submitted this report pursuant to Article 3. The Act on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section of the regulations. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, on finance and on the state budget, and on agriculture, fisheries and rural development. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Srecko Selanac will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40079	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on designations of origin and designations of geographical origin, and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products published in the "National Journal" 84/08. It shall be prescribed that the agricultural inspection and inspection of the quality of the food placed on them under the jurisdiction of paragraph 1 of that Article shall be carried out in accordance with the annual control plan and the cases referred to in Article 38(6) of the Law, which means where the authorised certification body determines significant disagreements with the product specification and informs the Ministry thereof. The adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on designations of origin, designations of geographical origin and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products has amended and Article 38 of the Law has been amended and Article 6 has thus become paragraph 8. In order to avoid confusion in law enforcement, Article 41(2) of the Law should be amended in order to refer to Article 8 of Article 38, which states in which cases the agricultural inspection and food quality inspection shall carry out the tasks which it has under the same law are given in jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40080	Thank you. Committees, legislation? Finance and the state budget? Agriculture, fishing and rural development? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40081	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is simply not allowed to shut up the way the government is using the right delegation of competence to regulate the areas of competence of the Croatian Parliament by regulations. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provided for in Article 4 and this is a condition for building a democratic system to divide the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial power. In this regard, the Commission notes that the measures The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia precisely because of this division of government, the Constitution envisioned that the Croatian Parliament oversees and controls the work of the Government. In accordance with Article 87 of the The Constitution for very specific reasons and, as an exception, the Croatian Parliament authorises the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt regulations on the basis of legal authority with several restrictions. It is a time limit in a period when Parliament does not meet, cannot change human rights and fundamental freedoms, cannot introduce taxes or change budgets. It's mostly. And most importantly, the government can't change the law. That would be about, I don't know what comparison, as if you were going to cut a 100-year-old oak with a nail bra. So, the government is going to change the laws for God's good, so it confuses all constitutional principles. If that were the case, both regulations are here to amend the law. The government is no different from changing the laws, and the greater the absurdity of one regulation and another, the more it cannot be changed by a regulation at all. In this Regulation on the application of the Foreign Exchange Act, the Government shall adopt a regulation which should only take effect from 1 January 2010 and from February 2010, and by law on the powers of the Government which we have had at this meeting itself, the Government shall propose that all regulations may apply which have been passed by 31.12 this year. It's absurd by itself. It is also this regulation that we have heard the argument that the Government has accepted corrections of the legal texts and is literally written in an explanation because the amendment of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Origin of Geographical Origin and Marks of Traditional Privilege of Agricultural and Food Products has amended and amended Article 38 has been amended, and paragraph 6 is wrongly marked rather than should be paragraph 8, the Government has decided to amend this by means of a Regulation. The government doesn't seem to know that the regulation has a limited duration. By way of derogation from the law of this Regulation, paragraph 6 shall be restored to law as the basis for the operation of the inspection, and you here shall be increased by a regulation to act as an inspection pursuant to paragraph 8 of Article 38. So we have done nothing that the government or executive authority in general does not build up a legal system, which is its task. The Croatian Parliament does not respond to constitutional obligations to control and monitor the government's work, as this creates legal uncertainty. Legal uncertainty is being created. All users of the law of one and the other in the following year when the validity and duration of these regulations expires will return to law by law, ex-legislative or the government will have to adopt the same regulations each year, but then we do not really have a division of power between parliaments, legislative and executive authorities. If we are not going to build a legal system then we must admit that arbitraryness, volunteerism, is incompatible with democratic standards. This is incompatible with democracy at all, and I would ask the government to make an effort, safeguarding the reputation of both the government and by respecting the Parliament, that the regulations should be adopted in accordance with the powers conferred upon it by the Parliament. So, only in those areas for which she's authorized to arrange this... as long as the regulation goes on, it does not change the law and that it does not adopt the regulations when it is met by the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, this year we were in session until the end of July, and the government adopted a regulation on July 27th based on legal authority. It doesn't make sense, and we just have to warn it, no matter how boring they are, but I mean by repeating, by repeating that it will come to the minds of the ruling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40082	Thank you. No one's reported for questioning anymore. Do you want State Secretary's final review or what? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40083	27. Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? This report was accepted by most votes. 66 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 29 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40084	We're going to the next point. This is - Report on the effects of the application of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government submitted this report on the basis of Article 111. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament since 9 July 2008. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Representative of the exhibitor, State Secretary of the family ministry, defender and intergenerational solidarity, Stjepan Adanic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen. As you know, on the basis of the Conclusion adopted by this Assembly on 9 July of last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby ordered to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly on its effects after three months of application of the Anti- Discrimination Act and to implement, where appropriate, amendments and additions of certain articles. This report is drawn up on the basis of collected data from the Ombudsman and special advisers, such as the children's lawyers, the lawyers for gender equality and the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and the resolution bodies, the Office for Human Rights, the Office for Gender Equality, the Office for National Minorities, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Office of the Advocate General which, in accordance with Article 12. The anti-discrimination law carries out the tasks of the central authority responsible for the fight against discrimination has received a total of 81 complaints from citizens concerning discrimination between 1 January and 5 May 2009. Out of the number 21, women’s sexes referred to the complaint, and 53 men’s sexes. Two complaints are common, three complaints are submitted to foreign legal persons, civil society organisations, councils and national minorities, and two anonymous complaints have been submitted. It should also be pointed out here that the Office of the Public Prosecutor and received 24 complaints which do not state the legal basis for discrimination, nor can it be read out of the content of the complaint itself. The Ombudsman established cooperation with special lawyers in the area of the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and, before the conclusion of the text of the Cooperation Agreement, it would sign the cooperation and formalise it. The agreement is under way on the dynamics and content of the record, which will be submitted by the special prosecutor in the event of discrimination to the Advocate General. In the period from 1 January to 31 March of this year, the Ombudsman’s Office for Gender Equality received a total of 64 complaints from citizens, i.e. citizens relating to discrimination and 16 complaints concerning domestic violence. Furthermore, the Office of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities who appeal to discrimination against persons with disabilities has received 10 complaints during the period for which the report is submitted. We must stress here that all these complaints are still at the stage of processing in terms of determining the facts themselves. Since the entry into force of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Ombudsman’s Office has received three individual cases calling for discrimination against children. Of the three observations, that is to say, the application relates to the area of education and education and two to the area of social security. The Office for Human Rights of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as you know, has so far carried out a number of activities involving the education of judges, i.e. judges, state lawyers, teachers, teachers, police academy, staff and staff of the Office of the Public Advocates and special lawyers, representatives of... and the media, members and members of the county co-ordination for human rights, and a series of representatives or representatives of the state administration body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Ministry of Justice shall be based on Article 30 and in conjunction with Article 14. The law on the prevention of discrimination shall establish forms for the statistical monitoring of cases relating to discrimination and other discrimination for the purpose of keeping records of cases relating to discrimination and the grounds for discrimination under which these proceedings are conducted. Here, it should be noted that the Croatian Government's Gender Equality Office objected to the said ministry because in one of the forms they published in the National Journal in January this year they placed signs in the same category of sex, sexual orientation and expression. We immediately launched the meaning of this remark and written and verbally to the Ministry of Justice to correct it and it is in progress, it will correct that form so that each category has a special place in that form in order not to be common, but to be explained individually. However, what is important here for the prominent? It is important to point out that from the data collected so far, there are no judicial proceedings in the Republic of Croatia relating to discrimination on any discriminatory basis under the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination. We are not saying that they may not be under the Labour Act and some other laws, or those are laws that before this law had the opportunity to combat discrimination in certain areas. But according to this law under which we now file, there are no court proceedings, which doesn't mean there won't be any. It is also noteworthy that the Ministry of Justice is under way to create databases on criminal proceedings for acts committed for discriminatory reasons and, in accordance with measures 713 of the National Anti-discrimination Plan. Following the above, it is apparent that, as a responsible body, the ombudsmans and special defenders have been responsible for carrying out activities to protect against all forms of discrimination, and a number of measures are being carried out continuously in the framework of the departments and government offices which reduce the risks of discrimination. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the activities undertaken for the purpose of improving the statistical monitoring of judicial proceedings relating to cases of discrimination by determining the obligation of courts to provide the Ministry of Justice with data three months by filling the prescribed forms. In view of the above examples and observations in the law in the collected statistical data, as well as the opinions of the competent authorities, it is premature to assess the impact of law enforcement. We must conclude from the above that there is no need for any changes or amendments to the law. It is estimated that the law will have the biggest challenge in the area of implementation in the next period, stressing the need for further systematic sensitisation and education of primarily judges and officials of state bodies and bodies of the unit of local, regional, regional self-government, public services and the entire Croatian public. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40086	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40087	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As the Secretary of State has said before us, the report on the effects of the application of the Law on Discussion of Discrimination, which the Government submitted to the Croatian Parliament on the basis of one conclusion that was made when this Law on Discontinuation of Discrimination was adopted last year in the seventh month, seems to me. I have to say right away on behalf of the club yes, I think we didn't vote for that conclusion, because in fact, in our opinion, he was a bit pointless by the HSS and then adopted by the majority. We really do not understand that based on three months of law enforcement, and this is precisely the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination at all, some more concrete conclusions can be made and that there may be some indicators that could then be directed at whether this law works in practice or not and where the problems in its possible dysfunction are. So I would actually say that this report was probably the only possible thing. What I would like to give particular warning on behalf of the club when it comes to the problem of discrimination on different grounds, and then to the application of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. In our opinion, it is still an absolute lack of knowledge of the public, i.e. getting to know the public by having discrimination at all, and what kind of discrimination these are, how to recognize them, how to fight them, how someone who is exposed to certain types of discrimination can at all protect against any kind of discrimination. This is not known enough to the general public, and unfortunately with this problem, neither are those who should work to prevent discrimination or to punish those who discriminate on different grounds. That is, therefore, the big one problem of education which in Croatia, when it comes to this problem, has absolutely not yet been brought to life. Therefore, it can also stand in this report that sentence, which says that there is not a single case in Croatia, a court case under any kind of discrimination. However, I am warning on behalf of the club that there is actually one flaw in this report, someone here should explain precisely why it is so, that perhaps a false picture might not be obtained that there is no discrimination in Croatia. We're not very different and different from all the other countries, because the fact that there are no court proceedings is about what I just said. Insufficient knowledge of citizens about what discrimination is and what is possible, what is forbidden and who they can address if they consider to be discriminated against in any way. So here it seems to me that an additional explanation is needed because there is no discrimination in Croatia not because there is no discrimination, but because there is still a way, to whom to address and what is, in fact, what law, among other things, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, but also many other laws allow. In addition, I think that the discussion of individual committees also pointed out that certain forms of discrimination, therefore what falls under discrimination in this law is being led as judicial proceedings, i.e. water, are being statistically conducted as offences based on some other laws. Let's say one part of the discrimination stemming from the Labour Act, so when it comes to certain violations of labour law, and those in this part are not covered at all. Secondly, I would also like to especially highlight on behalf of the club, and this is a matter of keeping statistics. We are also in the debate, when we passed the Law on Discussing Discrimination Special Attention and we asked, that the Secretary of State seems to me well aware that we discussed the problem of statistical data. We need statistical data, not only to guide something so much, but to draw some conclusions from these statistics, and we can also make certain judgments. Statistical data on the forms provided by the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the forms for the management of statistical data are considered absolutely insufficient and, as such, we ask and ask that the Ministry of Justice choose these forms to be changed, because it is several types of these forms. So it's about patterns that have a single statistical category of gender, expression and sexual orientation, then language, religion and national origin, then health status, disability, genetic heritage and birth identity, and these are under these same categories, so all these different kinds of discrimination, and we will ultimately not have adequate statistical indicators. So I appeal on behalf of the club that the Justice Department changes it, and then in accordance with that, since here's the secretary of state saying that there's a will to change it, then please don't even stand this praise in terms of improving the statistical monitoring of court proceedings and all this. So that's where you'd be praying too. Then the conclusions clearly state what will be required of individual ministries in this kind of work, even when it comes to these statistical patterns. I repeat, what I said at the beginning, this report is what it is, what the government did. Personally, on behalf of the club, I'd be happy if some other reports were coming, and they're late. But here this is in 3 months really nothing in particular can be determined when it comes to the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40088	Thank you. HDZ club, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40089	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I will at first say that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report, because we believe that it is complete and complete, of course, within 3 months of the application of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination could not have been wider or wider. The report shows that, what the institutions have done from the Ombudsman to specialised lawyers in the context of the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. I'll be here shortly at the beginning to refer to the Attorney General's report for persons with disabilities and, as the Secretary of State said, 10 complaints have arrived at the Attorney General's office for persons with disabilities. Of course, here I would also agree with my colleague Sobol, it does not mean that there is no discrimination in Croatia, it does not mean that there is no discrimination in Croatia against people with disabilities, but what seems to me that we should continue to do together, which is education so that people with disabilities themselves will dare, so to speak, to report discrimination because they do not, unfortunately, still do not do so sufficiently. A good example was also when the government campaigned against violence against women with special attention, so to speak, to women with disabilities. We saw that at the beginning of this campaign, no almost female with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia wanted to talk about whether any violence had been committed against her, and we knew that there was even a circle within the immediate family. Here is the occasion I can say thanks to the Prime Minister, who at the time led the campaign as Deputy Prime Minister, we have managed to strengthen women with disabilities that those on the SOS phone found in the Association of Persons with Disabilities are talking about violence and not just violence, they are also talking about all other forms of discrimination. This means that we are still on a good course, and I think we also, and here we also have the most recent information that the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Office of Human Rights is about to prepare and a large seminar that is about to be dedicated to the education of persons with disabilities in order to simply understand, to understand what discrimination is and whether it is something that someone else is doing to them or not. Today, when it comes to discrimination, not only people with disabilities but also other citizens feel that this is normal behaviour and that is why they do not report it. Of course, for these three months, it's hard to talk about some big effects, but what's visible and what I certainly support, which is that everyone has been involved in, as I say, the presentation of the Law on the prevention of discrimination and in the education of people. Of course we can't stop there. It is necessary to educate all institutions, educate judges, judges, state lawyers, state attorneys and lawyers themselves, so that all of us are free to say further that we should be educated when it comes to the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, and I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will certainly continue to do so together with the attorney general and with all other specialised lawyers so that we may be here after a year, 3 months is too short, but here, after a year of law enforcement, we may be able to get some more concrete indicators. In any case, I would like to say that this report is really well prepared, and once again I point out that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40090	Thank you. An individual debate. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40091	Thank you, Vice President. Here I am really going to brief on this report because it is not very big in itself, and I would also like to agree with my colleague Gordan Sobol that it is in some way and rather pointless since it refers to a really very short time of application of this law. I would at first have one wordological remark on the report itself because I know it's an inheritance in some way the law itself, but I don't think it can talk about sexual orientation as a basis for discrimination because it's actually sexual orientation, not sexual orientation. Gender is something that we're born with, and sexual orientation is something that we basically opt for in life, so I don't know if it's possible to change it, but I think it would be much, much clearer if we talked about sexual orientation rather than sexual orientation because we can't be sexually oriented. We can have a birth certificate. I will, in particular, refer to this part of the report on education. I really believe that education is actually crucial if we want to have one effective, effective implementation of this otherwise quality law because recently, if we can talk about recent examples of discrimination on a sexual basis, or sexual orientation, they tell us that even officials at the Ministry of the Interior are not sufficiently educated on this basis of discrimination. What exactly am I thinking about? I mean, specifically the case of the Zagreb Pride, which was held early this summer and when certain groups organized the so-called "Zagreb Pride". "Anti-gay is coming." These were groups that openly called on hate on their websites and on racial, national, sexual and other discrimination, as we from the SDP club warned, in the end and only the Ministry of the Interior, and we asked that an organisation of this kind be banned, given that the organisers of the meeting are calling for certain anti-constitutional categories, including on their websites, were asked to destroy the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior has not responded at all to this case, it has allowed this meeting to be held and, with very strong measures, in fact, police protection of those people who were participants of gay arrivals did not manage to prevent it, however, that means the participants of this anti-gay rally spit, insulted, disrespected the participants of the meeting. I see that this report is quite a large part of the document dedicated to this very education, and I am not sure how this education is actually implemented, but I think it would be necessary and crucial that not only the police officers involved in this kind of operation are educated in what way they should be treated but also that officials of the ministries themselves are educated in order to respond to such cases in future and prohibit such gatherings because there is also a breach of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40092	Thank you. Madam representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, the phenomenon of discrimination is actually going to agree that I believe it poses a serious threat to the construction of a society with a high degree of social security, tolerance and protection and promotion of human rights. That's what we all want. Of course, there is also an increase in the standard of life and quality of life, economic and social cohesion and solidarity. As for the law that has yet to come to life, we can say or will be able to see its effects, we can say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has approached the creation of a single anti-discrimination regulation, or the Law on the prevention of discrimination, and it will certainly have its effects, and in part when it is involved in all layers of our society. What my colleague said, of course, is going to count that part or that segment that relates to enough education, and I think you'll agree. I remind myself equally of the provisions of the law and what it prescribes as discriminatory grounds, which are race and ethnicity, skin color, sex, language, religion, political and other belief, national or social origin, union membership, education, social status, marriage or family status, age, health status, disability, birth identity or expression, genetic heritage or salt orientation. I have no doubt that you know all this well, but I have deliberately repeated all this in order to point out once again what this law deals with or to awaken or sensitize the Croatian public once again that in these topics and in these areas it can point to discrimination. One of the fundamental intentions of lawmaking was to ensure that discrimination in the whole range of social areas in which it arises, and therefore certain areas in which the law applies, so work and working conditions, education, science and sport, housing, public information and the media, etc. Until the law was passed, the problem of combating discrimination was, in fact, the absence of bodies specialising in the monitoring of trends in discrimination, including the analysis of statistics on cases of discrimination, public warning and from this place of discrimination, and the provision of assistance to natural and legal persons in the initiation of court proceedings and the like. The activities of such an independent specialised anti-discrimination body shall be carried out by the Office of the Public Prosecutor, and the appointment of the Office of the Public Prosecutor as the Central Discrimination Body, should, in fact, be improved and the co-operation of the Ombudsman with other specialised lawyers. In accordance with the provisions of the law and specialised lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, I remind myself, they can act in the event of discrimination, of course each in their work, but with the obligation to provide information to the Office of the Public Prosecutor. What is equally important is that in the process of drawing up annual reports, so when the law will experience its first year of discrimination, all relevant institutions and sectors should be included, so civil society organisations, trade unions, employers' associations, national minority councils. I would also like to remind you that by passing this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has another attempt to achieve an atmosphere in which all persons are protected from potentially discriminatory situations. Accordingly, I remind the victims of discrimination and all persons present with discrimination either reported it or so on. to whistles, to protect against further discrimination. Thus, once again, we want to encourage all those who have found themselves in an environment that has been discriminatory for them, to strengthen them, and to uninterrupted discrimination, and without any consequences, to report to the competent authorities. We'll see if we have any of these statistical indicators in the report. In any case, there was a short deadline for more systematic analysis and so far there were too little data, but in any case we support the report and of course we want a lot of success in further law enforcement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40094	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40095	Thank you, Vice President. Here it is, given that the colleague also referred to this necessity of education, I cannot but notice that today, in this report in this Chamber, except for the esteemed promoter, women speak exclusively. So I think it would be very, very good if we had a little bit of education for our fellow parliamentary representatives in order to have a little more sensitivity to this problem, because the obvious interest in this kind of problem is just sort of occupying women, and it's saying the same thing enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40096	Replication response, Mrs. solar head.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40097	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't think men need... for something they believe they know well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40098	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40099	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we've already heard that so far, the time of application of this law is actually very short, and it's not enough to evaluate its effects. So for this reason, at this point, there is no need for any changes to the law. So far, we have also been able to see from the attached report that there is no court case on any discriminatory basis. A number of actions involving the education of judges, judges, state lawyers, state lawyers, members of the police academy, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, media, civil servants, representatives of the state administration, etc. have been carried out in the framework of law enforcement, etc. By the end of 2009, a campaign to raise awareness of the inadmissibility of discriminatory behaviour will be launched, after which a second round of research will be completed by citizens and citizens in Croatia and the results will naturally be presented to the Croatian public. A handbook on law enforcement will also be published and a national conference on the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination will be held in the end, which I believe is very important. It should, of course, be pointed out that the Advocate General and the Special Advocates as responsible bodies are responsible for carrying out the activities they have been committed to safeguarding against all forms of discrimination and thus, of course, reducing the risks of discrimination. In the end, I will allow myself to actually say one thought and get out that this law actually helps us look for true, beautiful, good, and common with other people for joint growth. So I will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40100	Thank you. Does the Secretary of State want a final review? Yeah. State Secretary Stjepan Adamic, final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40101	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a little bit. As for the three months I said it was the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the government had professionally done its job and we gave that report here. Also, as far as education is concerned, we will move aggressively and aggressively towards all experts dealing with discrimination and normal education of the general public in the Republic of Croatia, which is extremely important, it is several times mentioned here and we will definitely do this especially the Office for Human Rights of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the complete Government of the Republic of Croatia will absolutely support and work on it. However, I wanted to point out something else. This is a three-month report that we have had to professionally carry out towards you, but reports in a year will be given by the Attorney General because he is the central authority responsible for suppressing discrimination under Article 12 of the Law. So next year, you will be here so you will get a one-year report from the attorney general who will immediately count down to you all categories for a period of one year because one year is a period where you can sort of and scientifically approach it, three months more difficult, especially if it's the first law and if it's just a short period of three months. So, we're talking about a public defender giving a report next year probably in the spring of 2009 and the effects of this law in 2009. And finally, I have to stress here what is very important, the clearly highlighted role of the former Deputy Prime Minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity of today's prime minister who, at the time when the law was passed, was subjected to great media and other pressures, and without any basis that today, when we see this report, we can clearly read that we have become the Republic of Croatia and that we are becoming increasingly civilised European state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40102	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40103	We're moving on to the 28th point. Report on the effects of the application of the anti-discrimination law. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the application of the Anti-discrimination Act is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes. 93 votes for and two abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40104	We'll discuss one more point tonight. - Report by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2008 - Implementation of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2008 - applicant: Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency Croatia's Energy Regulatory Agency submitted this report on the basis of Article 25. Law on energy regulation. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the report at the session. Mr Tomo Galic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40105	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Lady and gentlemen of Parliament. It is an honor and pleasure to welcome you in front of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and in the shortest lines to introduce you to the content of HERA Annual Report for 2008. Therefore, according to the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities, HERA is required to submit once a year a report to the Croatian Parliament on its work. I would like to stress that this report is for the first time structured, so the content of the report is structured according to the recommendations of the ERGEG, the ERGEG is the European Association of National Regulatory Authorities of the Member States of the European Union. So in that sense, we and this report have adapted you to this very European standard. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is a member, which means it is a member of the association and is of course an observer until the Republic of Croatia joins or becomes a full member of the European Union. The annual report of course of all the national regulatory authorities of the Member States can be seen, of course, on the websites of that association so that it is very easy to compare our report with the reports of all the other regulators of the European Union. During 2008, 19 meetings of the HERA Governing Council were held at which a total of 267 items of the agenda were discussed. All decisions of the Governing Council shall be regularly published on the HERA website which has recorded 61 000 and 400 visits in the last year during which it has been accessed on 363,000 pages. During 2008, a total of 106 complaints and complaints from energy customers were received in HERA, in which the chairman of the HERA Management Council made appropriate decisions. No administrative dispute has been initiated against HERA's decisions. In short, I will just look back at the state of the energy sector, by types of energy or form of electricity, in order not to repeat everything that is actually very detailed in the report. Therefore, as regards electricity, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is fully in line with European Union legislation, the restructuring process of the electricity sector has been fully implemented, tariffs have been established by each separate regulated energy activity, the electricity market has been established and all electricity customers in the Republic of Croatia can freely choose the supplier on the market. The right to public power supply services is only for customers in the category of household consumption. As regards gas, the Gas Market Act is fully in line with European Union legislation, most of the sublegal rules have been adopted. However, there is still another small number of regulations planned to be passed by the end of 2009. The process of restructuring all energy entities is under way in accordance with the provisions of the law, and the process should be completed by the end of 2010. Therefore, the gas market is formally open in the Republic of Croatia, but not all necessary preconditions for the functioning of the gas market in the Republic of Croatia have yet to be met. By the end of 2010, therefore, the law sets out the transitional period and in early 2011, all the preconditions for the functioning of the natural gas market in the Republic of Croatia will be met. As far as gas energy is concerned, the transition from municipal activity to energy legislation has been carried out, so before that activity was subject to the Law on the municipal economy while energy legislation applies today. The law on the production, distribution and supply of thermal energy as well as most sublaws have been passed and the remaining sublaws in the area will be adopted by the end of 2009. As of 1 January this year, prices for these services have been established for the first time under the tariff system adopted by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. We have carried out complete supervision of the application of these prices during this year and we plan to carry out for the first time at the end of this year those prices in order to be able to determine quality whether it is necessary to change either the tariff system or perhaps the applicable prices. As for renewable energy sources... Therefore, all legislative and sublegal regulations have been adopted and are in line with the European Union directives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The analysis of the application of these regulations is under way and the first corrections of the rules are being carried out where certain implementation problems are observed and, in recent times, the completion of the construction of the first and larger buildings in the area is expected, therefore, primarily the thinking of buildings, wind power plants, that is, of buildings producing electricity from renewable energy sources, that is, primarily wind. Of course, we already have the first examples of small power plants in the sun, small hydropower plants, biomass, and the first small cogeneration. Finally, I will only draw attention to the fact that the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have also adopted a third energy package, so the Republic of Croatia is also obliged to take over this legislation as it is intended for members of the European Union and, of course, to transpose it into Croatian legislation within the same deadlines as it is intended for members of the European Union. This is one unique opportunity for all our energy regulations to be implemented at once because they have been adopted over a number of years and can be certain nomotechnical and certain definitions that are not uniformly defined now and in this sense we will actually be at a new quality as regards energy legislation in the Republic of Croatia, which in this case will be fully and transparently in line with the legislation of the European Union. And finally, let me just mention that during 2008, HERA hired 8 new workers, so on December 31st, HERA would have 43 workers, and on July 1, 2009, there are 48 workers. HERA will continue to strengthen its administrative, organisational and professional capacities so that it can carry out its required obligations in an effective and quality way, thereby contributing to further development of the energy market and the development of the energy sector as a whole in the Republic of Croatia. In short, only the auditor, namely the independent auditor on HERA's business. Therefore, according to the independent auditor, HERA’s financial reports provide a true and objective demonstration of the financial position of HERA on 31 December 2008, in accordance with the Regulation on the accounting of non-profit organisations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40106	Thank you. The Economic Committee? I'm opening a debate. No one checked in. I'm closing an unopened debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with point 1 of the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, 2. Report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2008, 3. Report on business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2008, 4. Report on the promotion of awareness of women and men's equality in HR and HTV programmes and on HRT for the period 2008 to 2009 and 5. Report on progress in the fields of speech culture, full and objective information, the development of public content to achieve public television programmes and the removal of discussion on possible corruption within HRT. And at 12 o'clock would be a vote on all the points of the agenda discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-01-0.u40107	We move to the report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2008. Realising the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2008. Carrier of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. "The report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is accepted with observations which are relevant for the development of energy markets and public services in the energy sector, energy sector analysis and the achievement of the Agency's 2008 budget. a year." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 66 votes in favour, one abstention and 30 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue our work and move on to - Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed this decision on the basis of Articles 11 and 12. The law on Croatia reports to the news agency. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the report at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Madam Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, Nina Obulen. Here you go.
