ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40835	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're moving on with the session. We will move to – - Proposal for a Decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Proposer: 52 MPs of the Croatian Parliament From SDP, HNS, IDS clubs. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and by the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. And now, does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah, that'll do it. That's right, Mr. Zoran Milanovic reported that he will arrive any minute, as the first on behalf of the promoter, and then we will continue. Okay, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic will speak first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40836	Good afternoon. Your Honor, your Honor, your honors. You have before you a proposal for a group of representatives to launch a procedure for amending the Croatian Constitution. In accordance with the agreement between the prime minister and the representatives of the three parties, we submitted this proposal several days ago and on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system discussed and discussed the proposal. A decision has been adopted to proceed on the basis of this proposal also to a parallel process of amending the Constitution, in order to eventually bring the two processes together and go with the joint proposal. We were primarily guided by the logic that in addition to these general changes, in addition to the specific changes that are necessary for Croatia's entry into the European Union, some other changes that are not directly related to Croatia's entry into the European Union and which we simply consider to be of value in themselves and that they are good to be introduced into the Croatian Constitution. In the field of the European Union and Croatia's adaptation to membership in the European Union, we have largely stuck to the proposal tabled by the Government and the Government's Working Group. In this second part, we have several own proposals that are different from the Government's proposal, we enter into some completely different areas, and we also suggest that some of the topics be arranged in a different way. This is not an ordinary legislative process, the amendments to the Constitution are not the thing to be done every day, and regardless of how we probably would not have joined the amendments to the Constitution if there were no negotiations with the European Union, we believe that this is an opportunity that should certainly be taken advantage of and used in a good way. It has also been discussed with the profession, as well as on the board, and we are always not ready, but to say so there is a will to talk to the profession and to accept the views of the profession, especially in areas related to the European Union and to select certain legal and political terms that must simply be precisely defined, and which in some ways constitute a condition for the European Union to negotiate. Let us move in order, from the preamble, that is, from the provision on national minorities which has already been spoken of, and the Government has shown, that is, the prime minister’s personal willingness to extend this provision, or supplement it in such a provision of Article 1, i.e. in that provision of the preamble, and in Article 1. The draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is mentioned before you, is stated by the saying of all minorities, because we simply hold that in the given situation it is the smartest and most honest solution. By abandoning any minority, by making the difference between indigenous and non-autochton minorities, we enter a slippery terrain where we have been slipping for quite some time, and few are skilled at it. To do the difference between one minority, another minority, to explain what it means to autochton, to copy what will happen in a year or 10 years when Croatia enters the European Union and when it is more open to migration, labour, population, we simply remove all dilemmas in this way. It is also about three national minorities who are well represented in Croatia. We are correcting an illogicality, perhaps a small injustice that existed in the Croatian Constitution until today. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution, as regards the armed forces, and the decision-making of sending armed forces abroad and making decisions on the entry of foreign armed forces into the Republic of Croatia, we propose to regulate it in a different way than the one proposed by the Government and therefore because we hold that the Article of the Constitution must be clearly established and implemented by the fact that the President of the Republic is the Supreme Commander. There was no such thing in the current text of the Constitution, with any failure, failure, or whatever. It is, therefore, that the President of the Republic, as commander-in-chief, has not only the right to participate as co-signator or as co-signator of a decision in these important processes, but also has that obligation, that and responsibility. So far, it's just been skipped. And in a number of other provisions, the Constitution saidly mentions the president's co-signature, so where the president has powers, there was no such thing. The same goes for the proposal, I have to admit that I do not know what motivated the Croatian Army to come out of Croatia by making only most MPs instead of the two-thirds majority that have been affirmed in practice and which we deeply believe is using every future government. It's a difficult decision and it needs to be made together. Here I would say that the 2/3 majority for which we hold should remain in the Croatian Constitution of some kind of younger brother of consensus, the consensus would be ideal. We are sure that no one wants to send the Croatian army into any risky or combat mission without having broad support bordering consensus but of course it is difficult to reach consensus, so full unanimity. Members of national minorities are now in line with Article 15 of all these national minorities in Croatia so far listed, including those mentioned in the law and now entering the Constitution, there was the possibility that, in addition to the general right of the vote, they would have so-called. It's an additional right to vote. This constitutional provision is absolutely clear and should not be Nikola Tesla to realize that when he passed that standard, the constitutional creator felt he had shown the political will to achieve such a thing and said that, in addition to the general right of vote, an additional right to vote could be given. These two voting rights according to the letter of the Constitution, so I say there should be neither Nikola Tesla nor a linguist to realize that these two rights are not competitive and that one does not exclude the other but that they are complementary, if that is the case. It is unusual for the Constitution to predict such a thing in its own way, openly, and at the same time, it encountered a large barrier from a legislator who was acting deaf or ignorant that such a constitutional provision did not exist. There is and we propose that the constitution determines that representatives or members of minorities in the Republic of Croatia have this additional right to the general right of vote, rather than to be detailed, to edit this right by law rather than by the Constitution. We keep public records that, in addition to the constitutional category's attorneyship, it must be stated in the Croatian Constitution, otherwise, as a single act, a nomotechnical adjustment would be useful because in a normative sense, there is quite a mess, but since we have already learned how to manage it if it is not so huge then perhaps there is no need for it. In the ideal world, it would be necessary to write it over and over again. So, if the attorney's office is listed as a constitutional category that stems from tradition and from the right to defend, then it should also be done with public records. The same is true of some type of analogy for the introduction of a provision, it is our proposal to mention in the Constitution the governor of the National Bank, because if the Constitution already mentions a number of places of other in-house bodies, state attorneys, even the main state auditors, then you will recognise the duties and functions of governors of the National Bank, central banks, federal reserves wherever and in whatever context one of the very important duties is mentioned. And the independence of this duty is one of the foundations of the financial order of Europe that we are entering. So, the proposal of the Governor in the Constitution, because the Constitution and the State Auditor, but even if it isn't the State Auditor's office, we consider it even more important. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the existing Constitution is proposed to add items which, in a much more detailed and more serious way, regulate the issue of abolishing antiquity and not just for that matter, for criminal offences committed during the process of conversion and privatisation as well as for war profit and wealth on illegal grounds at the time of armed aggression on the Republic of Croatia. The Government's proposal is shrewd and short, in some legal tradition of the United States 250 years ago it would have been quite a measure of value, however, it was 250 years ago, today we have to define things very precisely, and if we look at such provisions in the European Treaties, in the founding contracts, in the Lisbon Treaty, you will see that there is little to be defined, except at the principle level by two words, these are very long and precise formulations, in that sense and will speak on behalf of Professor Ivo Josipovic, who is co-ordinator and author of that article, because it was one real job, we believe that this is the right path and the right solution. We propose that the Government's proposal on the criteria for holding a referendum on Croatia's accession to the European Union, where the government, in its proposal discussed last week, set out that the referendum decides by majority of voters who voted in the Republic of Croatia to bring the same provision into force in accordance with Article 45. The Croatian Constitution that speaks of parliamentary and presidential elections in the Republic of Croatia and to be added to the Republic of Croatia. We are proposing here a consensus but we are also naturally open to dialogue, unlike the HDZ proposal, we at the last session of the Parliament at which we discussed this Government proposal did not categorically say anything that was absolutely unacceptable to us and that we would not even talk about it. In contrast, at a meeting of the Committee on behalf of the HDZ, or the motion of the Government, Vice-President of the Seks Assembly in advance removed the possibility of talks on topics from this area, but we will still have to sit down and discuss it. This is more because the Government's proposal on the rules for the maintenance and success of the EU membership referendum for the first time introduced the criteria in the Republic of Croatia, given that the Republic of Croatia is unmistakably Croatian territory, as well as possibly the Croatian Embassy, we will have to define what it means and what you meant to say and what message it was because we have to have the same criteria. In education also very briefly, we believe that it is necessary to introduce amendments in the Constitution when it comes to compulsory education and the guarantee of the state that it will be free of charge, i.e. free of charge, but there is no big sense if the criteria for first calling are not introduced, first qualification. Without that provision, the Government's proposal is as empty as the provision in the article on banning, i.e. abolishing antiquity in privatisation, this should be further elaborated and more clearly defined as to what was meant. We consider the Croatian Parliament to be a budget for the majority of the votes of all MPs. There is no more important moment at the annual level to vote on confidence in a single government project. It is therefore determined that public money will be spent in the public sphere. Since 50% of the money, so to speak, is spent in the direction and arrangement of the state does not have more important things. For this project, for this policy, each government must get a clear mandate at the end of the calendar year for its majority in the representative body for next year. There was one objection that it means if the budget doesn't pass the government's fall. Yes, however, since the Constitution states that the deadline for this is 120 days and that within 120 days of the day of the proposal, and that day is defined by law, it must adopt a budget that is a very long period. In the way we've brought the budget so far, we've put it out of the way. Another subject of the majority, most of which is a decision. Constitutional judges, in fact, the government has already agreed. We propose that the Constitutional Judges be elected by a two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. This is what we propose pro futuro, of which no concrete benefits of SDP and partners of HNS and IDS can have because, as you know, the composition of the Constitutional Court is filled and filled for one longer period. So there's no pro-domo guard, there's no evil or selfish intensities, the only intensities that the Constitutional Court, unlike the people and candidates from the last cycle, are the top experts. I must say, my impression is that one round of people who became constitutional judge in the category of those who needed to prove to meet the minimum criteria. We don't want these in the Constitutional Court, and that's why we're going to have to deal with the best candidates in the future, so whoever's against them will have to explain why. It's good for Croatia, and it's supported me as well as waist. The European Union, without entering a European arrest warrant, needs that are necessary here as well as the provision that Croatian citizens can be extradited by means of an international agreement with other countries, and not by means of a European arrest warrant, should only indicate the difference. Therefore, only courts participate in the European arrest process. There's no politics here. So, the judge's extradition, the extradition contract with another country is generally decided by the minister of justice. So maybe those two categories could have been separated in 2 separate articles, but the existing proposal is clear to those who understand that. Finally tomorrow we will enter the European Union, it will be a while longer, there will be another affair, there will be another arrest, there will be another escape from responsibility, but we will enter the EU. Once we join the European Union, then we will act a little more culturally in Parliament, there will be a new assembly of parliaments, there will be people who know what it is, and then they will know the same thing that the Government in the European Law system is a de facto legislator and that the Croatian Government is tomorrow, with these votes in the Council of the European Union, making directives and other higher rules of the European Union. And that is why, according to the example of good European practice, it is necessary for the Parliament to be involved in this process at each stage. Of course, this does not obstruct any future government because the government will always be able to ensure to its majority that a specific project, i.e. a proposal for a legislative regulation, is passed in the Assembly, but before someone commits, on behalf of the Croatian Government, the Republic of Croatia to the Council of the European Union and votes in favour of a particular directive or regulation, should be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, and at least the committee responsible must decide on that. This is the case in a number of European countries, and this is not regulated by the Government proposal and leaves room for legislative regulation. We want this to be introduced into the Croatian Constitution, with the fact that the Lisbon Agreement provides for strengthening the role of parliaments in the European legislative process. First of all, in the matter of subsidiarity, therefore, parliaments in each individual case are determined not in content but whether a regulation is necessary at European level at all. It's the Lisbon Agreement. Our proposal is that in each, and all of these are important regulations that will affect life and the economy, before that at least debate on the board of the Croatian Parliament where the ruling majority always have a majority, but without the Parliament, it should not pass. This is a proposal that I repeat on the trail of good and advanced European practice. On the other proposals if there is any need during the debate, or during the joint debate, and on behalf of the promoter, I will conclude my part of the exhibition and ask Professor Josipovic to address us, we share the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40837	You can't share time, later. You can manifest yourself to the correction but we can't time then measure if we're going to interrupt and do so. Mr Ivo Josipovic, we'll see you later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40838	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. Of course, it is important, perhaps one of the most important acts that we bring to this meeting. We are changing the Constitution and you know that one of the most important problems discussed in Croatian society for years is the consequences of conversion and privatisation. The consequences that are terrible not only from a legal point of view but from a moral, economic and political aspect. Some people have acquired assets in this process that do not belong to them. They took the people's treasure, they took what they created for generations, and someone made it possible for them to do so. Some people have acquired enormous economic and political power based on what does not belong to them. When we proposed a change to the Constitution two years ago, which would better and better sanction crime spells from conversion and privatisation, it was a matter of how impossible it is, since it is not legally possible, in fact possible, and I must say that it probably surprised all of us by the government's proposal, in which our initiative is accepted, I would say, one of the most terrible events in Croatia's recent history. Why is this one of the most terrible events in Croatian history? Because it turned out that the audited companies, half of them were audited, had and reduced the underlying capital by 965 million marks of the same time, which is why I quote in the stamps from the State Audit Report. That the priceless property is somewhere around 500 million marks, that the less estimated property of 124 million marks, that the revaluation damaged several entities for some 360 million marks, that it disappeared in an accounting paper sense about 2 million 800 square meters of land and 90 thousand square meters of buildings, buildings. That the capital of those who survived was reduced by 4 billion marks, the number of employees was reduced by about 400 thousand. So 400 people are out of work, 400 thousand families are out of income. The development programme has not been achieved in almost 85% of cases, whether it has not been achieved at all or has been achieved in a significantly reduced amount. And that in a thousand 481 companies, or 95.2% of cases, irregularity, illegality was found. Of course that doesn't mean it's all a crime. It's not all crime, but there are certain illegalities that demand to be removed and that actually have their own economic and legal consequences. Unfortunately, after that, the report of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation was abolished. It is one of the serious wrong messages this Assembly has unfortunately sent to the Croatian public. It was a message that it was good to kidnap, that there was no progress and social success by work, but by kidnapping. It is a message that even the greatest social goods of the state can be privatized and kidnapped without the consequences. We saw yesterday there was a debate on the State's Attorney's Office report for the past year, so it seemed similar to all the reports and you couldn't find them except in slow motion and I would say a lot of smut, with clear evidence of ineffectiveness that anything had been done serious in sanctioning an abduction that was then called privatisation and conversion. What do we suggest? We suggest a better, better quality provision than the government did. Why? Because it's more comprehensive, because apart from the works, the very acts of conversion and privatisation, so the signing of a particular contract, we want to sanction those acts that are directly for it. For example, I signed a contract, I took over the company, then I destroyed it, I pulled the money out of it, I sold the real estate, and I fired the workers, so we want to sanction it too. And we want to sanction war profits. It is morally unacceptable while many have bled on the battlefield, others have used the welfare of the Law and the process of conversion and privatisation and have personally been rich. In Article 31, in which we propose major changes, first of all in paragraph 1, we want to bring into our legal system what is the fluid of international and European law, that is, so on. The Ninber clause. We have part of that clause embedded in criminal legislation, but we do not think that that is enough. We should put her on constitutional level. And then in paragraphs 2 and 3, we specifically regulate the issues of conversion and privatisation and war profiting. We would like to see this in Article 7 or Article 31(2). The Constitution, that no one can appeal to the limitation of criminal prosecution, which has committed other than those crimes of war crimes and any act used and misused power at the time of the Homeland War and peaceful reintegration, the state of war and the immediate threat to the state or major natural disasters, and which has gained great illegal property benefit, and also in paragraph 3. we propose that, apart from the criminal measures, it is the criminal conviction itself that the property use is taken to open up the possibility of a reaction and tax, therefore by administrative measures and civil law measures. And by doing so, we are introducing a whole spectrum of legal measures needed to address the consequences of conversion and privatisation. The Croatian public expects us to do so. He expects because the consequences of conversion and privatisation are such that they have devastated the Croatian economy, have devastated the Croatian legal system and have devastated fundamental moral principles. We have a great responsibility ahead of us, and I'm sure we'll know how to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40839	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40840	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Fellows Milanovic and Josipovic have already presented a whole series of things concerning this proposal for a change to the Constitution. As you know, the agreement is between the position and the opposition to discuss both proposals and then try to find a consensus joint proposal that will eventually go into debate. With this in mind, I would like to warn of two things that I consider particularly important, because in these changes to the Constitution that we went to, of course, not from the whim, but from the really realistic needs to adapt Croatia's Constitution, Croatia's entry into the European Union and its functioning within the European Union. However, when you touch constitutional provisions, then it is shown that some other provisions that are derivatives or legal solutions or are simply institutionally arranged at the moment are not working. During the debate, I will speak a little more on behalf of the promoter on this institution of additional voting rights for national minorities and the reason why it is necessary to define in this way the additional right to vote for minorities. However, at this point on behalf of the promoter, I would like to say something about the subject that appears in our proposal in Article 8 in view of Article 45. The constitution, and in the Government's proposal, or positions, appears in another form when the referendum is regulated. As the referendum is known and the vote in the elections for the Croatian Parliament is two forms of democratic expression. The referendum is a direct democracy or direct, the election for the Croatian Parliament is representative. What we do here because in our proposal as you will see there are no proposals in which to address the matter of the referendum, our proposal is, and this comes from this Article 8 of the amendment to the Constitution, is that the same model that HDZ and the Government propose for direct democracy is therefore to declare in the referendum, which is the quorum, and most of the 50% plus one is accounted for by the basis of all the lists of voters, but the number of votes has fallen in the Republic of Croatia. So the government proposed direct democracy. Of course, it's only reasonable and acceptable if we have the same model for representative democracy. Therefore, on the condition and as a necessary prerequisite for the adoption of the Government's proposal to regulate the referendum, the Election Law must also be amended so that, in representative democracy, they would have the same way as in the direct and then, in the elections for the Croatian Parliament and for the president of the state, only people in the Republic of Croatia who vote in the Republic of Croatia. I particularly underline this part because it is impossible in different ways to regulate the plea in a referendum of statements for representative democracy, which is the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40841	Thank you. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Vladimir Seks' correction to Mr. Zoran Milanovic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40842	It is not true, colleague Milanovic, that I am at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system the other day, as you said, wrongly removed that the Committee's session is even discussing that part of the draft amendment of the Constitution as set out in Article 45. The Constitution. According to your proposal, this would mean that Croatian citizens must come to the polls in the elections for the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Republic at the polling stations in Croatia and are excluded from this proposal to vote abroad. I did not remove it from being discussed at all but even suggested that the proposal not be accepted, to accept a proposal for an amendment to the Constitution aimed at amending the constitutional provision referred to in Article 45(1) and (2). The Constitution. And secondly, it is surprising that you are associated with the debate on the European arrest warrant announcing that there will be more arrests and that the next assembly of the Croatian Parliament will be more cultural than it is today. It is an inappropriate remark, Mr Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40843	Thank you. Correction Mr. Frano Matušić at the presentation of Mr. Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40844	Thank you, Mr. President. It is an incorrect allegation from counterpart Josipovic that the HDZ government has accepted the SDP's initiative, i.e. the initiative of these parties, to declare crime in conversion unsustainable. Namely, the SDP had twice the opportunity to change the Croatian Constitution and had the same knowledge of crime in conversion as it has today and has not done so. Therefore, this is an initiative by the HDZ government, not the SDP, the HNS and... If you wanted to, you could have done it. You've changed the Constitution twice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40845	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need for work-body rapporteurs? On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Vladimir Seks, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40846	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 39th session held on 20 October 2009 discussed the proposal for a decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by 52 MPs and representatives at the Croatian Parliament of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 16 October 2009. The Committee discussed the proposal as a parent committee on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which are prescribed that the Committee shall consider the opinions and proposals of the constitutional nature referred to the Croatian Parliament and, in the process of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, prepare proposals for appropriate acts. The representatives of the proposers have initially explained that the proposal contains three groups of proposed amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which have been established as a direct condition for the closure of the rule of law, changes which provide the appropriate constitutional and legal basis for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the effective functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, as well as amendments to the Constitution resulting from other initiatives specifically complemented by the original basis of the Constitution by including all national minorities who choose their representatives in the Croatian Parliament by redefining the role and handling of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, by introducing the grounds for criminal prosecution and non-exercision of wartime profits and the works carried out in the process of conversion and privatisation, emphasising the constitutional principle of independence of the judicial authority through strengthening of the constitutional position of the State of the Court Council and the State Court of Justice and the State Council and the Court of Law, and in particular on strengthening the continuing of Law of Justice of Justice of the Republic of Croatia as the Court of Croatia as the Court and the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice and the Court of the Court of Justice of the Republic, the Court of Justice of the Republic, the Court of the Court of the Republic, the Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of the Republic, the Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Republic of the Republic of the Court of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Court of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia. Representatives of the motionors specifically explained the reasons for the constitutional change in the introduction of the ground for the prosecution and non-depreciation of war crimes and acts committed in the process of conversion and privatisation, as well as the changes to the mandatory special voting rights for national minorities and the exercise of electoral law in the Republic of Croatia. The debate expressed its satisfaction with regard to the high compliance of the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the amendment proposed by the Group of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, in particular as regards the changes relating to the closure of chapters in accession negotiations with the European Union and the amendments to the Constitution relating to the modalities of accession and functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. The differences in said changes proposed by a group of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the role of governor of the Croatian National Bank, on the legal basis of membership and transfer of constitutional powers of the Republic of Croatia, participation in the institutions of the European Union and the application of EU law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia will be discussed in democratic dialogue and optimal solutions will be found. The agreement will also overcome minor differences in proposals on the independence of the judicial authority. The debate found that there are differences in the approach to individual amendments to the Constitution in relation to the proposal of the Government of Croatia, and therefore a change in the addition of the original basis of the Constitution is supported by the inclusion of all indigenous national minorities who choose their representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The opinion is also expressed that the proposal should also be considered to delete the word indigenous and not delete words and others because there is the possibility of moving some other national minorities into the territory of the Republic of Croatia to ensure protection on the basis of the legal property of the European Union. The subject of agreeing with different proposals should also be a provision on the role and conduct of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the obligation and the freeness of education until the first call, the need to be included in the Constitution and the public notation as a public service of constitutional importance, and to regulate how to adopt the state budget and elect judges of the Constitutional Court of Croatia. When agreeing to the amendments to the non-depreciation of criminal offences committed in the process of conversion and privatisation, it is necessary to take into account that the resolution ensures responsibility for the offences committed and enables the confiscation of the resulting profits. With regard to the proposal for changes on the introduction of mandatory special voting rights for national minorities, it is noted that only Slovenia and Romania have such a solution in Europe. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that the law can, in addition to the general electoral right, provide national minorities with a special right to elect their representatives to the Croatian Parliament, and that the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament does not prescribe that right. In the debate of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament held a decision on 16 October 2003 not to give a credible interpretation of Articles 4 and 15 and 16. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament governing the right to vote to members of national minorities. From the explanation of the decision made, such a position of the Croatian Parliament expresses the unequivocal will of the Croatian Parliament, which is expressed in the procedure for the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities when the amendment to the text of the final proposal of this law is not accepted, which would allow members of national minorities to vote twice. In accordance with this linguistic, logical, synthetic, historical and final telecomparation, it is doubtless that voters have the right and the duty to vote once, which means that if members of a national minority can vote for one of the political parties or independent candidates in one of the electoral units as well as members of the Croatian majority or representatives of national minorities in a special constituency. It is also noted that on 17 September 2003 the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia did not accept the proposal of the Italian Union and the Serbian National Council to initiate the procedure for assessing compliance with the Constitution of Article 3(2). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament that regulates the issue. From the explanation of the solution of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the contested provision of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament prescribes the right and duty of each voter to vote only once the electoral legislation of the Republic of Croatia sets out the rule that the voter, once he holds the vote in the elections, does not have the right to vote again in the elections and does not have the right to vote once he has voted. The contested provision of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament contains a universal and generally accepted principle according to which the voter is allowed to hold a vote in one election only once independently of which electoral system is applied, in which way the vote is held and how many votes the voter has in those elections. The principle of one-time voting rights and the number of votes recognised by the legislator in the elections are therefore two different electoral and legal institutes that do not depend on each other or are linked to each other in any way that the proposings mistakenly consider. In connection with the said part of the Committee members, it did not support the proposal to amend the Constitution referred to in Article 5. Proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The debate expressed the need to update the electoral lists and clean them from dead souls, and part of the board did not support the proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as referred to in Article 8 of the draft proposal, which proposes that Croatian citizens exercise their general and equal right to vote in the elections held in the Republic of Croatia, thus abolishing the vote at special polling stations abroad. It is said that the right to vote remains for Croatian citizens, but that all Croatian citizens residing abroad in the elections for representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Republic of Croatia must come to the polls in the Republic of Croatia. This was therefore a proposal to apply constitutional changes which part of the committee members did not accept. The debate noted that all forms of public debate will contribute to the creation of a precondition for finding the best solutions. In this regard, the Committee president called on all legal universities, schools of political sciences, economic and philosophical colleges in the Republic of Croatia as well as other interested institutions to organise discussions and other forms of public consultation with constitutional changes. After the debate, the committee unanimously adopted the following conclusion with 10 votes. The proposal of 52 MPs in the Croatian Parliament is accepted to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40847	Thank you. Mr. Pupovac has come forward to correct the incorrect allegations, but this is a read report from the board, so there is no, I think. Does he want to? No, I don't. On behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40848	Thank you very much. Dear President, fellow representatives of the Labour and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 31st session today on 22 October discussed the proposal for a decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by 52 MPs in the Croatian Parliament of the Act of 16 October 2009. The Committee discussed the proposal for a decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as an interested working body. In his opening statement, he pointed out that preparations for membership in the European Union include appropriate constitutional adjustments. All amendments to the Constitution contained in the proposal have been systematised in three groups. The first group consists of amendments and additions to the existing constitutional provisions, the second being additions to the constitutional text of the new provisions, while the third group concerns the introduction of a new chapter on specific issues, memberships in the European Union. In the debate, the committee members indicated that this proposal is in the most part similar to the proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that the smaller part remained to be agreed. The proposer also answered a number of issues raised in the debate, with regard to the adoption of the state budget, the right to vote by national minorities and other issues. In the debate, the Committee specifically referred to a provision relating to the non-depreciation of criminal offences committed in the process of conversion and privatisation. As these crimes were committed during the Homeland War, the provisions of non-depreciation will allow the perpetrator, or war profiteers, to be punished. Since a number of illegalities have been committed during the conversion and privatisation process that have caused major damage to the economy, the Croatian public rightly expects criminal responsibility for the crimes committed in the conversion and privatisation, without the possibility of calling for limitations. The Committee therefore proposes that the Croatian Parliament establish a special working body or working group to monitor the effects of the removal and sanctioning of the offences committed during the privatisation process and report once a year to the Croatian Parliament. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee also unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The Croatian Parliament will establish a working body to monitor the work of the competent institutions responsible for detecting and sanctioning the offences committed during the conversion and privatisation, which will submit a report to the Croatian Parliament once a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40849	Thank you very much. Anybody here? There isn't. Before we move to a club debate, I announce that I am on the basis of Article 113(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament included Proposal 52 MPs and representatives on the agenda on the movement of trust to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Damir Polancec. The proposal is multiplied and divided into boxes, so you can find it there later. I have included proposal 52, 54 MPs to raise the issue of trust to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Damir Polancec. It is multiplied and divided into boxes, in an article, within a legal period. It is therefore based on Article 113(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Let's move on. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40850	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The clear IDS stands absolutely behind these provisions. Of course, today we might prefer to discuss the fate of the 3rd of May than the Constitution, but no matter what IDS is clearly behind this. I'll start like this, from behind, from the referendum. Understandably, the voice of the diaspora should be reconsidered, but I also think there is no fear that due to the diaspora, i.e. A voter from Bosnia and Herzegovina for Croatia's entry into the European Union could fall. I just don't believe it. So also the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Croatian passport will prefer to travel to Europe, the world, avoiding those embarrassing treatments at the airports that we are exposed to, rather than acting as one singer. Therefore, if I am sure of something, then I am sure that Croatian citizens will vote for the European Union. By contrast, yesterday on Croatian Radio, I think it's a good thing that they showed it, there was a shame in the Croatian state, us as a Parliament, the Croatian judiciary, the country as a whole. It comes, if I'm not mistaken, that Bosnian prince, he says I shot five shots in the air, in 10 minutes he'll be walking out of the Zagreb County Court, singing I don't know the Croatian judiciary, instead of closing him up, he's playing some hero there. Therefore, if there is a need for an arrest warrant then certainly not from that conclusion with the European Union countries because these relations still function slightly differently than for Croatia from Bosnia and Herzegovina and vice versa for Bosniaks, I do not know about Serbs and the like, because what happens on the Zagreb-Sarajevo-Belgrade route is becoming one civilizational disgrace. Why will everyone be more or less for the European Union? So because, upon entering the European Union and in these areas, Croatia will certainly steal less, because in a period of 4.5 years following its entry into the European Union, we will not be able to service the external debt without the euro. It's not even a problem to pay back, it's a problem at the moment to secure foreign exchanges, and because we'll probably be more economically interesting. It's enough to look at the real estate market right now, construction, industry, trade, everything collapses. Among other things, clear and due to corruption, inaction, clear and, among other things, to the policy of the Croatian National Bank from 2000 to 2007, the overrated kuna that brought down the export economy, which means a good part of the export industry, but today, in the personal duty of the citizens of 135 billion kuna, the economy is still so understandable that the kuna needs to be preserved as a pupil of its own eye. And it is clear that it is necessary to fight for the autonomy of the Croatian National Bank whose reserve policy saved the Croatian banking system from the fate of a Hungary, etc. But I repeat, the policies of the CNB and the overrated kuna at the time of 2000 to 2007 have brought down industry, export economy, instigated imports, consumption, and I dare say that as unpopular as it may be today. Before I touch the conversion and the outdated IDS would like to see in the Constitution, and on that trail and provisions that the team so-called. The protected tenants were guaranteed not to come to property once, but to own apartments in which some live for 50, 55, maybe 60 years, whose fate is that if they go out of that apartment that the real owner will move them out, or throw them out on the street, there is no obsolescence for the crime of conversion, absolutely for but why don't we solve the fate of those 5,000 families who, I dare say, let no one correct me, in which they were in the fate of which the Jews were in the '30s. I agree that nationalization was an injustice, but can we correct one injustice to another perhaps even greater injustice? The communists have nationalised apartments, I agree that it was an ideological primitiveism, and today the Democrats from those apartments deprived of the "occupancy rights" of people living in them for 50, 55, or 60 years. Thirdly, the principle of positive discrimination, Croatia does what it does, punishes those political parties representing minority values, but also by the principle that they mean minority members choose for whom they will vote or for minority MPs or for the party means and they are consciously, and the minorities segregate, segregate or in some way discriminate, because in ethnically under quotes, I dare say to the cleanest state in the world that we have become is not always pleasant to declare to a member of a national community. Maybe that's what I think we should finally start talking about, and we know that all these provisions are losing except HDZ. The problem is that in 2000, we applied this principle that we are in favour of today, the problem is that we have increased the number of minority representatives from 5 to 8, and on the other hand we have deprived them of their double voting rights, which has given the party the advantage in the elections and has gained and embraced another 8 minority MPs. Obsolete Article 7, I never said and I don't think everyone who deals with business in Croatia, business is criminals, it just can't be. There's no harder than someone at this point to pay their wages, pay their taxes, pay their contributions in a country where there's literally a lot going down. And so many businessmen, the real businessmen should be held as a little water on the palm of their hands, clearly, there I do not think of those who work and run those mono-political companies from one HAK, Croatian roads, HEP, Water, etc., railways, here I mean small craftsmen, craftsmen, medium-clear and large companies that run the people who have made everything fair. Equally, I don't think that all those involved in the conversion were thieves that we could say for them "you're a gang of thieves", not all of them, there were those who honestly, mostly working the world came to their first million dollars, euros or I don't know what, they invested that million euros or dollars in Croatia, and they should be an example. Unfortunately, though, such ones are very few. There were also those who took part in the conversion with company workers, took over from being hohstuplers or maherers as they mostly participated in the conversion and thus preserved the companies. And these people should be absolutely respected, but these individuals may be at most 4.5% of all those who participated in the conversion, and there can be no more of them. Everyone else I'm going to say quite frankly, for me, the criminals, who I would say and the criminal government, wanted to enslave Croatia so that today they have everything and today this country and this poor country has almost nothing left, and even hope. You should ask what those workers hope for in "3. May’. The fact that they've got it all figured out isn't enough yet, they want it yet, because the 90's have nothing, and today they have it all figured out that it's not enough what they want today. Today some of them want Pantovčak, because they know that through this institution they can influence the government itself, they know that even this poor country has some other resources and these resources want for themselves as they got before them, because if they don't come to them today they won't come tomorrow, and maybe that's why their fate will be like "Glembaye's" and that's what it actually is. They can't get it, they can't get it on Pantovich, but neither should those who somehow surround the underworld. Audit yes or no, absolutely. Why? So because it was committed in the war, that conversion, and it as such has to be considered a war crime, and war crime must not be understoodly outdated, but the question is whether in 2009, 10, 11 is "possibly possible". I want to believe that yes, but to be honest, I doubt it a little bit, and I think that if citizens do not show one consensus and determination here, they will disappoint as well as in the unfulfilled January 3rd promise of reviewing the conversion or the president's that from Austria, Lichenstein, Switzerland will return 7, 8 million marks, the euro or what was then. I think it could have been a lot more about this matter from 2000 to today that it was willing, but it didn't want to, and in 2010, I think it's going to be a lot harder. So where do you start from? So, from the question of how did you gentlemen get to the first million marks, to the first million dollars, to the Swiss francs, those who can't answer that question clearly are supposed to remain without everything, it's simple. But in Croatia, unfortunately, nothing is easy but to steal from the state, and that's where everything goes as well. That it will be with this review of the problem, it will be, Croatia is economically vulnerable, if a company "under investigation" questions who will work with it, you can lose all jobs, you can do more damage than benefit, but surely this should go into it. That company could be out of loans, guarantees and so forth. And what's worse is I don't see who's going to get into that audit, today's State's Attorney's office I doubt, the courts, the way they are, so far they haven't gotten into it, not even the governments, the presidents didn't get involved, and if they had mechanisms they had, but the fact is that there was no political will. It was worth the principle "Let the people vote for us and let those capitalists finance us." Because for me the same won't vote, and it won't even finance me, which creates serious problems for me, but then I can promise an audit even if I like to say, it passed as Kennedy because the conversion was indeed the mother of all robberies, although in the last six years it seemed to be in this country both bolder and more ruthless than in the '90s, and the best and most eloquent example is this "Podravka", "HAC" etc. What's the problem with that audit? If something is acquired means dishonesty, and then sold to a third person who bought it, say, in good faith. The first one should be in chains, the second one should be let work. The problem is if you bought the first company dishonestly, and the rest fairly according to Onassis's "Don't ask me for the first million dollars, ask me for every cent after that."then you must lose everything. The problem is our banks. It's the biggest bandit privatisation. We have rehabilitated banks that have been transformed into foreign espositories, where today 320 billion kunas are active, have been rescheduled with 15 billion kunas. Maric will say 50, 60 or 80, sold for 7. And what should we do about it now? Well, you should go to prison for the former prime minister, or I don't know the economies that allowed Croatia to be robbed in this way, but as for war crimes, then you should probably sacrifice others, not those who designed it. I'm really asking myself, should these people be the ones who came up with that transformation and privatization? Absolutely, we should close them first, and then move on. So they should deprive property, medals and move on. Because the opportunity makes a thief, but the question is, normally, who came up with all this? We gave people a chance and some people took it. What were they doing? They've been stealing by the law, and now they're gonna prove that everything they've done, they've been doing according to the law. And you know what, I just remembered, this Todoric, flying in a helicopter, told a Slovenian about a journalist. That Croatian conversion is the best in the world because no one is in jail and has produced 300 good companies. It's clearly the best for them, but for the poor, that conversion is tragic. But those who have business in such companies, and that should be said, will be silent because they don't want to end up like maybe the next day the workers will end up "3. May" or ironworks in Split, etc. And the problem was simply, under quotes, bananas. There's been a war, there's been a transformation, there's known who's going to get there will become a pillar of society after that, and no one's going to touch them, but I think that question definitely needs to be opened, and it should come from those who came up with it in the '90s. I certainly don't indicate any arrests, the opposition can't do that, but I know who could, these arrests, in this country, stop them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40851	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have first a correction of the incorrect allegations and the respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain said that I said several times that the bank's recovery cost 30, 40, 50, 80 billion. Turns out I'm always talking to someone else. That is not true, I have always spoken and I will only speak one piece of information, and that is 87 billion kuna and 400 million kuna has cost the Republic of Croatia the recovery of banks in Croatia. And the data you're saying has been sold for 7 billion is also incorrect. They were sold for $5.4 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40853	Thank you very much. We also have a breach of the Rules of Procedure that reports the esteemed representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40854	I'm just using the State Audit data. It cannot be 87 billion because it would be 3 budgets of the Republic of Croatia. Somewhere around 15, sold for 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40855	Okay, this wasn't an invitation to a breach of the Rules of Procedure or an article, and it was an attempt to discuss it, to continue the debate. For the word came out on behalf of the promoter, respected representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40856	I'm in need of a few words on the trail of some interventions. So this proposal that we have tabled, which is technically in a kind of volume sense in some parts similar to the government's proposal that we have long been able to discuss in this House since we proposed in the second month, there are also amendments that are very different and that change the meaning, content, coverage, nature, and what it wants to change. What matters and what I want to draw attention to, so I ask anyone who thinks or can prove otherwise to correct me is therefore, we have managed exclusively with general and public interests. In these proposals, you won't recognize a single special group. Probably a lot of legitimate, interesting, special, special groups pulled you by the sleeve, suggested you enter this or what, it's not here. These are purely principled matters concerning the general rules of play and order in the Republic of Croatia that should be worth some more time. So is the provision of a broadly elaborated, elaborated, reasoned provision on the abolition of antiquity for crimes committed in the privatisation and conversion process as well as the offences of anti-legal wealth and war profits at the time of armed aggression on the Republic of Croatia. I accept the intervention of the honourable representative that it is an authentic proposal from the government and the HDZ, which no one disputes, these are two proposals. So one proposal is the SDP proposal and now a group of representatives, or 3 club representatives, the proposal has been on the table for almost 2 years. For almost two years, we put this proposal in the process and asked for an indication of it. There are two competing proposals. We consider ours to be more quality, more comprehensive, and we believe that this is exactly how the solution is in the interest of the legal order and in the interest of introducing fair rules of the game. However, there is one thing that is difficult to deny, and that is a claim and correct me if I speak wrongly, that such a solution as the SDP was sent to the procedure two years ago by a number of respected representatives and representatives of both the Government and the HDZ, and some here today sitting in the Assembly, opposed and that he felt that he was not good, that he was not enforceable, that he was not realistic and that he should not be accepted. And that's what I'm talking about. And now we can finally sit down, so here's what I see is that fellow Shakespeare is going to make it right. But I will repeat, so correct the warrant, correct my claim. That a number of prominent ones are all respected, one number of HDZ representatives and senior officials did not object to the introduction of such a change to the Croatian Constitution. It's a fact we have material evidence for. And this is political dialogue, and within that political dialogue, we will repeat that. Also clarity works, I won't tell the truth for it, because it's a favorite catcher, but each of us may see the truth in another way. So, clarity, on my side works. On the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, it was the urgency that, in one conclusion, negatively or at least most of the committees were negatively visible on some of the articles in the proposal of the Group of Representatives. In particular, articles concerning additional voting rights for national minorities and the article, which amends Article 45 of the Croatian Constitution, introduces the notion of voting in the Republic of Croatia. Once again, clarity is working, because after this, we have talks waiting for us, negotiations are waiting for us. We see that you are also announcing a public debate. So you've also called on the committee of Mr. Shakespeare, Vice President of the Parliament and university professors to engage in these discussions, to organise public stands, professional gatherings. That, of course, but we made it clear that this was going to happen, not on the trail of what the Prime Minister was looking for. She asked that the procedure be brief and not take too long for our vital burning interests, to join the European Union. You can see it's a serious procedure and it can't be broken over the knee. What we don't want and what we don't want, we don't want to stall. We're not gonna argue just for the sake of the debate. But for the sake of content, we will. So I will repeat once again that in the proposal to amend the Constitution submitted by the Government, and as regards the referendum, it is said that most voters voted in the Republic of Croatia in the referendum, provided that most of the voters joined the referendum. So we're clear on this. So, the criteria for most are the majority in the Republic of Croatia. We will only have to interpret it with inspiration, but also with common sense, which is the majority in the Republic of Croatia. So I'll meet you somewhere. But we're not going to make a categorical condition. We didn't reject any of your proposals in advance. In that sense, it was my intervention. I don't think you listened very well, like you didn't listen to me when I was talking about arrests. Yes, there were. And if I say there'll probably be more of them, I'm not calling the curfew, I'm talking real. The arrests were, it was too late, obviously, there were procedures, political responsibilities and courage to face them very little. Discard those words. When I spoke of the European Union and the representatives of this House. Then I thought about going into the European Union and acting a little differently. When you look at the British Parliament, she's very much alive. It's a lot of pitching, a lot of humor. It looks so little like a show, like a stage. But you don't have any coffee dumps, which we have in Parliament. The men of the tenth or fifth order, whether fifth or first, earn you, speak to you, and do not shake hands with them in your life. It's European behavior. I didn't insult anyone, I'm just calling for standards, that the election of MPs will take care of that. These are European criteria, then they can be alive. So, please listen carefully, because we're gonna have to sit back and talk about not insinuating. There's no need for that. One proposal, one proposal. The HDZ proposal to abolish the limitation in privatisation, the HDZ proposal. I'm not saying he's too late, but I'm saying that over the past two years, such a possibility has been rejected. And that's true. Please defuse nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40857	Thank you very much. To correct the incorrect allegations, the respected Vice-President of Parliament Vladimir Seks reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40858	I will hear your request immediately from my colleague Milanovic to deny you on three occasions. First, when I called on the Committee on the Constitution all professors of law schools, the Rectors of the Faculty of Philosophy, political sciences, economics, to engage and organise in a public debate. This is not compatible with the Prime Minister's assessment that constitutional changes should be made by the end of the year, nor with my assessment that constitutional changes can be made by mid-November. As far as the ruling majority and some HDZ members are concerned, they have opposed and denied it, and have claimed that those constitutional changes that are related to the punishment of war profiting privatisation and converted crime are not true. You submitted a proposal to amend the Constitution on 27 or 28 August 2007, so just before the parliament was dissolved and the election was called. So, just ahead of the election campaign for the 2007 Parliament. And I'm like the President of the Parliament and I put it on the agenda of the Parliament's session. In 15, 20 days, there was a decommissioning of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, they did not object, but only later and later showed great and enormous difficulty in introducing the Constitution for the ban on antiquity of criminal offences. And that remains a very big problem now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40859	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate on behalf of the clubs. The next club is the Croatian Democratic Community and the Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40860	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will, for the most part, support the proposal for constitutional changes submitted by representatives of the SDP, HNS and IDS Clubs. I say in a huge part. I would estimate it would be not 90%, but 95% of these proposals for the announced constitutional changes of these three opposition clubs. Why are we doing this? Because there are three groups of reasons to support this proposal for constitutional change. The first concerns most of the possible constitutional changes relating to those provisions of the Constitution, amendments to the Constitution that allow the opening and temporary closure of individual chapters for the European Union and those which allow only the effective functioning of the European Union and the accession of the European Union. There are proposals from the Government which have accepted and installed in its proposal for constitutional changes those proposals and that proposal for constitutional changes made by the government's working group and this proposal by the government's working group, which has put into place in its proposal the draft amendment of the Constitution and this proposal by the representatives and representatives of 52 parties is practically advent of literature and it reflects that there is one full consensus and full agreement with the constitutional changes that are related to the closure or opening of certain chapters and the accession of the European Union and the way Croatia works in the European Union. There is therefore one full agreement and this agreement will be clearly and determined both in the adoption and establishment of the draft Constitution and in the adoption and the amendment of the Constitution itself. I will now talk about what these are all about, where all the consents that are reflected in the strengthening of the role of the Croatian National Bank, so monetary authorities, the introduction of a state audit into the Constitution, are the introduction of an amendment to the Constitution to enable the Croatian legal order to apply the law of the European Union directly. Therefore, that the courts and all state bodies, after Croatia's accession to the European Union, apply all the legal norms of the European Union as their own, as domestic or legal gaps between domestic law and European law, but it becomes a Croatian right at the same time. Or those provisions relating to the amendment of the Constitution should allow Croatia to transfer part of its powers forming a corpus of sovereignty to the bodies of the European Union, or those provisions that will allow citizens of the Member States of the European Union to have the right and the ability to vote in local elections in Croatia clearly if they have a residence in Croatia. Or those constitutional changes relating to strengthening the independence of the judicial authority, a new way of electing the State Judicial and State Attorney's Council that would no longer be elected by the Croatian Parliament but would therefore be outside the sphere of both the legislator and the executive authorities, those constitutional changes that apply to judges appointed to be elected for life until the end of their career until 70th. So this whole set of constitutional changes is completely identical and compatible with the government's proposal and the proposal of these parties. We have a few differences. We also agree that all minorities are not only indigenous but that all minorities are now and those that are numbered, which are not counted in the original foundations of the Constitution to be entered into the original foundations of the Constitution. We are also fully open to accepting the idea and initiative that judges of the Constitutional Court are elected by two-thirds of the votes of MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We also agree to be implemented by changing the Constitution to apply a European arrest warrant which simply means that Croatia, when it enters the European Union, that the judicial authorities of Croatia and the judicial authorities of the Member States of the European Union directly participate in the handover, extradition or ensuring the enforcement of the sentence to each other without any competence and mediation of the executive authorities. But clearly there are certain conditions and assumptions. And after these changes, the Constitution will need to pass more appropriate laws to implement the European arrest warrant. In this regard, it should also be borne in mind that there is a European Convention on Depreciation which indicates that they are not extradited or surrendered, that the State may remove extradition or surrender for those offences for which it assesses that they are politically motivated criminal offences or linked to politically motivated criminal offences. By amending this Constitution, we will allow Croatia to conclude bilateral interstate agreements with countries that are not members of the European Union on legal aid, extradition and surrender, for example with Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Serbia, to conclude bilateral international agreements that will prevent the hiding from justice and allow Croatian citizens to be brought to justice, that no one can hide, hide and that they can. But also there, it will be a matter of these bilateral agreements and agreements. And there will be a need to take good care of each other as well as all countries in the environment and all countries created by the collapse of the former Yugoslavia will try not to hand over their citizens for politically motivated crimes and also for crimes related to war and wars in the former Yugoslavia. This is important to say that one wrong climate is not being created in the public, that now very quickly either by changing the Constitution or by means of interstate agreements, that Croatia will now extradite, at any request of its citizens, the same way that neither the country will deliver lightly nor without a very clear and well-established procedure nor its citizens at the request of Croatia. It is a European arrest warrant and I say we are in fact completely in agreement, it is only a matter of some technological nomotechnical solutions where a better form will be expressed in a better, more functional way than content. We also have two key differences in approach. One refers to the so-called double right to vote. There, and on the Constitutional Committee, I sought to put one reserve on this proposal to introduce a double vote with a reason that this was already a thorough Croatian Parliament, and in that meeting where the parliamentary majority was, was not the HDZ parliamentary majority but the SDP and the SDP parliamentary majority had just taken the view that through certain decisions of the Croatian Parliament, through the decisions of the Constitution Committee, for legislation, through the failure of a credible interpretation of the Croatian Parliament, through or through the Constitutional Court decision, the constitutional provision of Article 15, which allowed the legislator to introduce additional voting rights, in addition to the general right to vote for members of national minorities, that it was consummated by the adoption of the 2002 Constitutional Law, and thus the status of quo remains in legislative and electoral, electoral, electoral, electoral, electoral, Comrade Furio, you know there's something else in that agreement. [[Intruder Mimica: Don't get out of the bench anything!]] What you want is that half... Please be nice. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Don't put in anything about signing when you know very well that this agreement says that it will be obtained by you... That they'll talk. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40861	Again, I would also warn the respected Radin representative and the respected employee and the respected vice president that there are no bilateral discussions like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40862	So let's get back to that extra voice right. That's where HDZ put one reserve. We'll talk about that reserve I said and discuss. There are different modalities that we can still and need to discuss, we'll discuss it. But in principle, it is our view now that in this direction the Constitution does not change and that the Constitution does not determine the obligation of additional voting rights with general voting rights. But we will discuss possible modes that indeed, at the highest level, there are no ladies and gentlemen anywhere in Europe, not one Constitution in Europe has established the additional right to vote for members of national minorities, not one. There is only a law in Slovenia where Slovenian citizens of Hungarian and Italian nationalities as a special electoral body choose two, i.e. one plus one representatives in the Slovenian National Assembly and in Romania where there are no two votes again, but through a specific model where the issue of representation of the Hungarian national minority, i.e. Hungary, Romanian citizens in the Romanian parliament is resolved. All in all and for these two topics, we in Croatia are completely open to the democratic community. I am convinced that after this debate, where we will not vote under our agreement, we will form a parity joint working group that will try to find common solutions in the coming time if we succeed, and I believe that we will succeed in the lion's section and that this working group should then also propose to the Croatian Assembly through the Committee on the Constitution, and also in the political discussions that this working group has concluded. Is it successful and how and whether there has been a joint proposal taking into account the government's proposal for constitutional changes and taking into account clearly the proposal of the Government as well as the proposal of the Group of Representatives? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Zoran Milanovic, appeared on the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40864	Thank you and briefly since this is still a public debate and an opportunity for certain things to be said publicly so that they don't stay hanging in the air. I'm glad you've corrected me so precisely, the only thing I don't understand is whether in the end you've been in favour or against, or just skeptical about the provisions on abolishing antiquity in privatisation. Why did you keep your mouth shut for two years? But we'll probably resolve that in some other dialogue. And as for the provision, i.e. the disagreement on the supplementary right to vote for members of national minorities, there are therefore several countries in Europe that have that additional right to vote, you have not listed them all. If you count, there are more precise ones in Scandinavia. Sweden's minority has even more pronounced and more defined status in the Finnish Constitution, although one or two percent of them are there. But it's not crucial. There is also no state, there is no country that has so many national minorities listed in the preamble of the Constitution. Isn't that right? So that's where we accept one standard, but when it comes to the additional right to vote, then from some I believe less patriotic, and more professional motives, or interesting motives, we deny it. We can talk about that too. It's not a categorical imperative. We also want to hear the position of those representatives who are representatives of national minorities in this House in accordance with the applicable laws and their opinions. That's very relevant. But what stands is that the Constitution, or constitutional provision, cannot be unconstitutional. If you prescribe something by the Constitution and if you gather around attitude and political will, which is just an attitude and not some great idea that something valuable will be protected by the Constitution, then there is a value protected by the Constitution and no authentic interpretation from 2002, no constitutional law can change that. So the question here is, is there only a will to allow national minorities to do so? And if there is a why, or if there is no why? Because the argument that the Parliament in 2002 brought some kind of authentic opinion or refused to adopt an authentic opinion or that it was rightly consummated by constitutional law becomes immaterial the moment you change the Constitution and say it is a protected value. Let us see why it would not be good to protect it, or to protect it. What the paradox is is that in the year 2000, the founder adopted a provision that practically wide-opened the door for such possibility, and said, I will repeat, in no way competed that members of national minorities, in addition to the general right of vote, could be allowed to, or to give, an additional right to vote. From that finding, to its achievement, it's just a small step for whoever wants it. I'm asking you next, and then why didn't you suggest that this constitutional provision be abolished, because it will obviously never be realized. Never. So actually the founder's floor can give thought he can't and will never give. Then, if you're in principle, I'd expect you to suggest erasing such a constitutional norm so as not to bring confusion, but you didn't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40865	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed Vice-President of Parliament Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40866	I will again grant your wish to deny you. And first of all, it is incorrect that your thesis and claim that there are also some European countries that have an additional right to vote. I said that the Constitution has no European country's additional right to vote. None. That's where I stay. Second. ... In practice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Second. I'm talking about the Constitution. What? ... Which other do you want me to correct? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40867	Rewarn, honourable MPs, to stick to the Rules of Procedure. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It was clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40868	I would very much like to run this communication form, but it is not appropriate to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40869	Thank you very much. The next registered Club of Representatives is the HDSSB club, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40870	Dear Mr. Vice President, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Here's this little play between the left and right is I'd say unnecessary, because here's Mr. Seks, Vice President of the Parliament, himself, said that 95% if I understood correctly and understood Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, in fact 95% of the materials in this proposal to say SDP, HNS and IDS clubs, gentlemen of the ruling therefore acceptable. We are not in the HDSSB, so the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja did not participate in the creation, although the opposition, not to say an angry opposition, did not participate in the creation of this proposal signed by SDP, HNS and IDS representatives. The HDSSB also did not participate in the creation of a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the ruling ones. The HDSSB has its opinion on this whole matter and its position, and clearly we will look back, or I will look back at this presentation and on the proposals of each other. So, Mr Milanovic stood out in order, starting with the preamble of the Constitution that should include 23 minorities, because last time we discussed the Roma who, they say, were forgotten, but now it is also that to say little injustice and put in place, and in agreement, I would almost say to everyone, according to the opinion of all clubs and representatives in this Croatian Assembly. When Mr Milanovic spoke as a proposer about Article 7, so he mentioned the participation of the Croatian Army in missions outside the Republic of Croatia, so beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia or the participation of foreign armies and activities of foreign armies in territory, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, he also mentioned the greater role of the President of the Republic in the decision-making process. The HDSB remains on the stand, however you wish, that only the Croatian Parliament should be decided by the two-thirds majority. These are also things that concern both the sovereignty and departure of the Croatian Army, and we know that we have been leaving wars throughout Europe, even outside Europe through our history closer and further, and that the Croatian Parliament chosen by the Croatian people should decide on this. So all MPs were elected to the elections for the highest representative body of the Republic of Croatia. Now about the right to vote, the right to vote of members of the national minorities, which Mr. Radin is about, I can see that Mr. Pupovac has also reacted and that he is actually being cut, or the provisions are haired in that constitutional law with the provision in the Constitution, so a special right to vote, and then the provision that only once can be voted in one vote, in one vote. If the Croatian state were defined as the state of all citizens living in it, then many things would be resolved. I won't explain the details about it, sapient clock, smart enough. I don't know if the preamble of the American Constitution numbers 68 national minorities, from Vietnamese, Thais, Chinese, Kazakhstanese, Tajikistan, Pakistanis and others. They're all citizens of America, they all have full rights, they enjoy full rights and protection of the American state. They're Americans first of all. So is our Croats in the far United States. I think that in our heads still or most of us actually there's this old-fashioned thought that I'd put on a sentence are we citizens living in this country, in this country of Croatia, or are we a nation state? Are we a nation or state of citizens? Therefore, it stands out, this is one I would say, perhaps a more modern approach, a more modern approach to this matter, which perhaps in 4 or 8 years' time, in another assembly of parliament, will consider all of which these angers and these discussions and these bench announcements could be very simple, very satisfying for all citizens, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to abolishing the statutes of limitations in conversion and privatisation, then I see that there is a competition between the fact that it was the first mention of the suspension of antiquity, is it SDP, is it Mr. Presidential candidate not to advertise it, or is it HDZ with this month two, initiative etc. I can simply say that in the Statute of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja it is the very element, the abolition of the statute of limitations for acts, crimes committed in privatisation and conversion, but we do not drill into the chest when we wrote it and who wrote it before us and who wrote it before us. I also agree with the fact that in the 2000 elections we all expected the coalition to do because it has instruments, it had the tools to do so in its term between 2000 and 2004, as Mr Matušić said, and why I don't know, today we don't understand, and probably the 2004 elections were lost because the expectations of the people were failed. When it comes to a referendum on the accession of the European Union, we are talking exclusively about the accession of the European Union, although some other trumpets have not yet been silenced, which, through the action of some external factors, may drive us into other associations, mention other associations of gentlemen, but we do not mention the European Union here in the Constitution, we mention association with other countries, neither the European Union nor anything else is said. Are we to point out in particular that in the case of a solution, as has been offered here, we only want to tell the European Union, but not in another association of states, the very painful and traumatic experiences of the Croatian people in such things, in integrations and disintegrations, we remember the last war, which were very painful, the disintegration that was paid by tens of thousands of victims in the Homeland War. I'm stressing again with defensive and liberating. As a result, the HDSSB believes that the association of the Republic of Croatia with other countries, or a group of countries such as the European Union, can be achieved exclusively by a referendum in which 50% of registered voters plus 1. This article in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is already standing, in our opinion should not be changed. Just out of fear of some things happening that we and our children and our grandchildren will regret. What makes us change that, which is why we are afraid that citizens will make a negative statement about entering the European Union, whose fear is that? SDPs, HDZs? So we rush there, the arms, like there's honey and milk, because fear of citizens thinking about joining the European Union. Won't the majority of voters in the Republic of Croatia vote for what we've been fighting for 20 years, which we expect to come to the country of Palestine, the land of honey and milk. Where did fear come from, fear? To amend this constitutional provision, which is now clearly and loudly saying that it is joining in association with another country or group of states. There is no need to change that, or if we are going to change it then we must define that it is solely because of the accession of the European Union, so to define who we approach and why a referendum is being called, in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Education, for free, I don't think it's free at all, and it's never been a free education. You have to buy everything for the school, we know what parents we are when we send our children to school what they need at the beginning and during the school year, free education, it's such an expression that there's a constitutional provision, and it's now being noted for the first term. For a first call, if someone changes college, then they don't have the right to free entrance. And is she entitled to a student who loses a year and still has the right to free education at that university? The other day, I talked to a woman whose kid got into college with a personal payment, for personal purposes, and she pays six years of medicine, unless she has an average of 4.6. It's an impossible mission, an average 4.6 really in college to anyone is very difficult. And someone who loses a year in medicine will still have, who wrote down the first year on the cost of the state for free, will still have free schooling, is that fair, is that okay? So, with what it says about first calling and introducing more expressions along with the regularity of schooling, in higher education institutions, in high school and primary school or ten - year school that this is not the case. Furthermore, when we talk about changing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia not a single word, and it is an opportunity to point out that there are regions in Croatia, we need to open a chapter, in negotiations with Europe regarding the regionalisation of Croatia, about that. I therefore say that, in line with the process of fiscal decentralisation, decentralisation of the government and accession of the European Union, and in the framework of the European regions in relation to the chapters on regionalisation, we hold in pre-accession negotiations that regional self-government should be brought to life in Croatia and in five regions. We can define them but about that later. In this regard, we propose the formation of a second home, the House of the Regions in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. The region's home will not increase the number of MPs, should not increase the number of MPs. On the contrary, we can reduce the number of representatives in total. The home of the region that would be in the Croatian Parliament as the Upper House would guarantee a better functioning of regional self-government especially in the field of equal development of all Croatian natural environments, and in particular the issue of equality in decision-making should be represented. So this Dom would have just secured it. Equal development of all regions in the Republic of Croatia and equality in deciding what is not the case now. One more second, Mr. Vice President. Please just give me a second, okay? Furthermore, if we would define the Croatian state as a state of all its citizens or citizens living in it, from which questions continue to arise, then the name of the Croatian National Assembly should also be restored because it is the Assembly of all its citizens, or its citizens. As an example that's interesting we haven't abolished the State Statistics Institute, we're not the State Hydrometeorological Institute, we haven't abolished
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40871	My colleague, please be nice and you'll do it in extra exposure because now...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40872	Can I have another final word?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40873	Oh, yeah. In the end, those five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40874	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, but here will be our proposals for a group to be formed, as well as amendments when the time comes to propose amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40875	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40876	I am correcting the assumption that the HDSSB is an angry opposition to HDZ, and I remind you that with the voice of the HDZB, Branimir Glavas, a law on golf courses has been passed in this House. It's a law that will allow a privatisation robbery similar to that of the '90s. The law by which small money will go into private hands is the only thing left in Croatia is the terrain by the sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40877	Thank you. This other part of you wasn't exactly a correction to an incorrect quote, but one supplement, that's how one applies. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40878	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. In last week's debate, the Croatian Peasant Party Club has already delivered some of its views on the amendment of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So today, we will try to present our visions here regarding the proposal that we have received. We agreed that the process of alteration and supplementation is going in the right direction. We have supported a model that seeks compromise solutions and we believe today that in such a model of work and harmonisation of these proposals we will reach consensus. Our views also confirm the high compliance of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that we have today, which are proposed by 52 MPs and the changes proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This compliance concerns in particular the changes relating to the closure of the chapter in accession negotiations with the European Union as well as the modalities of the accession and functioning of the Republic of Croatia to the EU tomorrow. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club believe that the agreement will resolve the differences that exist in the proposals, and we in the HSS intend to contribute that these fines, we can say petty differences, prevail in order to bring our most important document by consensus and remove public perception of the existence of the two groups in the Assembly who are tossing or having their proposals on their own side. The need for constitutional change also shows us both the European Union and the completion of accession negotiations and the provision of a constitutional and legal basis for EU accession establish direct conditions or, as we popularly say, the criteria for closing chapters. The established criteria require harmonisation of legislation and strengthening administrative capacity, as well as reforms that include changing the competence of individual state bodies and institutions. By harmonising various proposals with the amendment of the Constitution, we will come up with solutions that ensure the successful functioning of the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia as meeting the set criteria by the EU. The amendment of the Constitution will pave the way for amending more laws so that European practice and European principles can be brought to life in the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. We believe that on the way to finding the best solutions there will be enough wisdom and readiness for dialogue. These solutions must also strengthen the constitutional rights of our citizens and strengthen the role of state institutions and institutions. They must give greater importance to local and regional self-government, and particularly important changes relate to the non-depreciation of criminal offences committed in the process of conversion and privatisation and solutions must enable the confiscation of such created property, i.e. to obtain and ensure responsibility for the offences committed. This addition to the constitutional text introduced the Institute for the Non-depreciation of Crimes committed in the process of conversion and privatisation because these works are considered both in the public and in the professional circles extremely difficult and it is necessary for them to, justly and justly, deny the application of the Institute of Obsolescence especially in view of the times, circumstances, the consequences committed and caused. During the transformation and privatisation, the expected economic effects, i.e. conversion and privatisation, did not have a more significant positive impact on the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary, implementation, conversion and privatisation resulted in an increase in internal and external debt, a significant increase in the number of unemployed persons, a disproportionate and rapid wealth of individuals on the one hand and an unfair poverty of many on the other hand, a real drop in wages and pensions in relation to the cost of life and a number of other consequences. It is also fair in the spirit of international law that perpetrators of such serious crimes are deprived of the possibility to avoid criminal responsibility by applying the institute. The foundation of an obsolescence institute is a guarantee of legal certainty for citizens. However, it is certain that this institute should not go to favour the perpetrators of serious crimes, which, through old age, is practically possible to legalise the effects of such acts. These changes would encourage and enable the State's attorneys, courts and all competent authorities and society institutions to be more effective and not protected when it comes to criminal offences. This would put an end to this problem that has been frustrating our public for years, and what our citizens are constantly pointing to. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the proposal for amendments and additions, is also regulated by the area of the Armed Forces. In the preparation of a comprehensive harmonisation of the constitutional and legal basis of the Republic of Croatia as a result of joining NATO and the European Union, and despite the national needs observed, the Croatian Peasant Party wishes to point out some facts about the security of the defence system. The country of Croatia is also joining NATO and the European Union, and through this individual specific categories of the security defence system. Therefore, the question arises, in addition to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the provision of the Constitution should include issues relating to police and civil protection, since they too will participate in various NATO and the European Union activities, including those under Article 5. North Atlantic Treaty. We point out this because there is also a civilian component in NATO alongside the military component, which is linked to the High Council for Civil Planning of Emergency Conditions, which is composed of 8 subordinated bodies. This planning body for overseas shipping, the planning body for European land transport, the planning body for civil aviation, the planning body for agriculture and food, the planning body for industrial preparedness, the health plan body, the joint civil-military medical committee and the planning body for civil communication, as well as the planning body for civil protection. It comes from all of this, and it's obvious that there's a possibility that these facts could be embedded. The proposed amendments to Article 7 bring together issues related to the Republic Armed Forces, e.g. in paragraph 8, I quote: "The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia can be used to assist in anti-fire protection and rescue and in monitoring and protecting the rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea". It is unclear why the supervision and protection of the rights of the Republic of Croatia at sea is particularly isolated and whether this is also about protecting sovereignty and territorial integrity, as already stated in paragraph 1. The members of the Defence Committee during the visit of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in the framework of the reform processes, in the area of defence, have been announced the creation of strategic documents. National Security Strategy, Defence Strategy, military strategies and concepts of governance in emergency situations and crises. Here I would stick to the concept of management in extraordinary situations and crises. The knowledge of crisis management systems in the EU and NATO Member States shows a common feature by which the crisis is a state or part of state territory created by any event in the country or a nearby or wider environment that can cause a stalemate, partly or fully in the functioning of some of the activities or several of them at the same time, is a matter of normal life and work in the country, which cannot be overcome or removed by normal means and means. Therefore, in the process of handling such a situation, they must apply specific measures, mechanisms and capabilities of the defence system procedures and crisis management plans. The adoption of modern solutions, primarily those applicable to EU and NATO members in the area of the integrated crisis management system, raises the problem of the normative and operational redefining of this area in the Republic of Croatia. Its resolution is one of the important objectives of reforming the security and defence system of the Republic of Croatia. Since there has been no generic document in the Republic of Croatia since the adoption of those in force in the area of national security and defence, we have not been elaborated by the concept of a category apparatus related to this issue, we are not sure whether the concept or word crisis should therefore be mentioned in the Constitution. We also support other proposed solutions that are proposed to us today and point to the need for a public debate, which we believe would contribute to finding good solutions, a solution acceptable to the vast majority of our citizens. The public debate would, in our opinion, contribute to a greater and stronger introduction, a more complete introduction of our citizens to these proposed constitutional changes. I especially mean it when we come to a single joint draft proposal. We consider it important to meet our citizens and to make constitutional changes, all in order to avoid the perception of our public, to make the changes quickly to join the European Union, not for the sake of ourselves living in the Republic of Croatia. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club believe that the changes must be made for the sake of and in the interest of our citizens, because only such changes will ensure constitutional and legal functioning in the Republic of Croatia, will ensure the satisfaction and security and peace of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40879	Thank you. At 11.26, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40880	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal to amend the Constitution, which comes from SDP, HNS and IDS Clubs, seems to us not only in the greatest part, but in general acceptable. Acceptable both because of the nomotechnical aspects and arguments that have been accompanied by the amendments themselves, and because of the content of things, except in one place. And I will start from this one place that when we speak to the position of the SDSS Club we believe should neither stand in the SDP, HNS and IDS proposal nor should we stand in the proposal of the ruling coalition, and this refers to the question of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And in the government's proposal, therefore, the ruling coalition, or working group that took part in it, and this proposal stands as it was in the earlier formulation of the Constitution, something that I do not think should stand in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia today. And this is "The Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia can cross its borders or act beyond its borders on the basis of a decision of the Croatian Parliament proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the previous consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia.". If this is the rest of the policy of the 1990s in which such a provision served to allow members of the Croatian Army to cross the border of the Republic of Croatia and enter the territory of neighbouring countries in this case of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of an interstate agreement, it cannot, in my opinion, be something that stands in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It implies a different relationship first of all with the neighbors. And on the other hand, it implies a different capacity and a different composition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia than we should have when it comes to the alliance that we recently entered into and that is the NATO Alliance. For this reason, colleagues and colleagues of the SDSS Club will support such a proposal by SDP, HNS and IDS, but only assuming that this is dropped from the proposal and that that part of Article 7 is amended as well. A constitution where it still stands. A provision that says, namely, is quite enough to say: "The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of the Allied States may cross the borders of the Republic of Croatia in order to exercise and train within the framework of international organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or accessed on the basis of international contracts and to provide humanitarian assistance on the basis of a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia.". This previous provision is actually a very different meaning and a significantly different content and I think it needs to be dropped. As for the outdated one that could be included in Article 7 of the current constitutional text, we have also signed or signed that initiative at the time of the SDP club, or part of the SDP's representatives, and we support it. We support her not because we think that the hand of justice will come to anyone. Well, it doesn't come to anyone when it comes to war crimes or war crimes responsibilities, but it still has to be some. It is necessary to introduce criteria for what has been done in the past and for what seems to be in the present constitutional provision to send a clear message that this is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that, in this sense, the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as a state of law, as a country which can guarantee prosperity and which can ensure prosperity for people. And in that sense, it makes sense regardless of all the recommendations spoken by the Vice President of the Parliament when it comes to this issue of limitations. It makes sense to introduce this into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that it is in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that the existing legislation is adapted so that it can become effective enough that the new Constitution can indeed be practiced. We are aware of the fact that the Constitution itself will not act unless there is an adequate judiciary, unless there are adequate investigative authorities, and that is why it sometimes seems to me that when we are already discussing constitutional changes and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it would sometimes be a beneficial solution for this people and this country to suspend the Constitution for 24 hours and to implement reforms that are necessary to be implemented in the judicial system and in others, as some other countries have done. Like this, things have been running around for years, things have been running around for decades. But it's not something we can decide on now anyway. But we are warning of the fact that even when we change and I believe that we will change because obviously all the key parties in the Assembly agree that the issue of antiquity is defined by the Constitution and sanctioning the crimes committed in conversion and privatisation will also remain the question of how we will adapt the judicial system to function in accordance with this novel of the Constitution. The third thing I would like to talk about is the question of the electoral right of members of the national minorities who today have become a central issue here in this debate. It is, of course, not a central issue or a change in the Constitution, nor is it a general central issue of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to say the following, something I wanted to say to the Vice-President of the Parliament when he spoke as chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. But since he was protected by the role of the rapporteur on behalf of the board, then I couldn't correct him, so I'm going to say it now. First of all, I would like to say that regardless of whether there is something in a country in Europe or in the world or not, and we in Croatia have no argument. No Croats in the world have a country except in Croatia. So what does that mean? Nowhere do nations have their own countries except in one place and possibly in some associations in some other places. Well, now we're going to use it as an argument that if there's no argument, there's nowhere else he can be with us. It's not the principle of universality. In most of its cases, national minority rights policies do not follow the principle of universality but speciality. And in that sense, there really isn't like two of the same beards in the world as you have vice president, Mr. Picula doesn't have, for example, Mr. Horvat. Thus, there are not two of the same minority policies. And that is why this kind of argument cannot be used here especially if it has in mind the experience that we have as a state in practice towards minority communities and when it comes to the fact that everything we still need to do when it comes to the integration of members of national minorities into Croatian society, in what someone here rightly says civil society. None of us want constitutional solutions to lead to our sharing of society. No, but to be a whole society, an integrated society in which fundamental, constitutional, civic values will be first, and then additional and special rights will be something that is an integral part of constitutional values, not something that is outside of it. And that's exactly why I'd like to say the following. Different countries have different solutions. It's not just the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Finland also has certain solutions. Those solutions aren't, they're even more complicated than ours, even more complex than ours. And these solutions are not so active in electoral law, but they are in some other solutions, and we have decided to regulate the political status of members of national minorities most significantly through electoral rights. We didn't define some other solutions like Finland did, and we had a chance to put it in. But that's an opportunity we've solved differently. As for other countries, of course our neighbouring countries are all multiethnic states and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia, even more than we are right now and have certain solutions. Maybe not all members of the national minorities there are satisfied with all these solutions but have certain solutions in which, in addition to general voting rights, they create assumptions about how to ensure that minorities are represented in their parliaments. In that sense, the proposal that is here today at the debate is a good proposal. You could even say the necessary proposal, necessary for the practice we've had so far. And the practice so far has been about that if members of national minorities want to vote for their minority MPs then they have to give up their general electoral rights. This is absolutely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that is all there is, Mr. Vice President, not only in Europe, but in the world. Let go of what's not there, we've already discussed it. But when you give yourself a word or take away my word [[Intruder Shacks: If you're polymizing with me this way, then I'll pollomize in the same way.]] Listen to your position is currently privileged amongst other things and because you can keep your mouth shut as a mummy, but of course when a representative speaks you must also remain silent as a mummy if he does not violate the Rules of Procedure, and I am not currently warned that I am violating the Rules of Procedure [[Intruder Shakespeare: Yes, but don't pollemize me, me from the pay phone when I'm chairing, so I should keep my mouth shut like a mummy, and you should talk.]] Okay. [[But don't talk to me and call me and turn to me.]] In any case, we think that during the debate on constitutional changes we need for a number of reasons, the ones that I have presented and yet have not presented, we should go to ensure that the general electoral right is guaranteed to all voters in the Republic of Croatia during the parliamentary elections, and that, in particular, the electoral right is guaranteed to those who wish to practice this particular electoral right or consider it important to exercise some of their special rights in this case as members of national minorities. This does not mean that all will do so, but those who consider it particularly important to them will do so. It is one of the measures, one of the procedures that we in Croatia have decided to regulate the political status of members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. If we had decided for someone else, then it would have been produced by other solutions or other procedures. For example, if we had decided on the proportionate representation of members of national minorities, not the kind we now have, we would have other solutions. And for this reason we think that we should avoid: a) the fact that in polling stations the principle of secrecy is violated when people come to the space where they should vote. Secondly, it is necessary to avoid the moments of segregation when people need to define whether they will vote on the basis of general or special voting rights. And third, it is absolutely necessary to protect the general electoral right, and not to define the Institute of Special Election Law as something that can be, but something that is defined by law clearly and unequivocally. If that happens, of course, we from the SDSS, and I believe that from other national minorities, we will participate in the next discussions, in the next discussions, and we believe that now is the opportunity to come to a solution that will be acceptable to the largest number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We think it would be very good for all the constellations that we have in the Parliament today, as well as in the political life of Croatia. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40881	Thank you for your silence and for your speech. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40882	Thank you, Vice President. I am pleased that the distinguished representative Pupovac has drawn attention to this topic, as regards Article 7 of the Amendment of the Constitution which speaks of the Croatian Army in the Croatian Armed Forces, their crossing of the border and the entry of foreign armed forces or foreign armies into Croatian territory. This is, I'm not gonna say it's a dilemma, but it's a topic that we discussed in the SDP. For the time being, however, but so far, we have decided to make the proposal the way it is, so I will try to explain to the public why it is, and to point out some other illogicalities, the dilemmas that exist in the Constitution, in the current text of the Constitution, and as regards war, war, war and peace and the powers of state bodies under such circumstances. So indeed this provision, and if we start from the fact that one of the constitutional values in the Croatian Constitution is peace, I don't know if it's mentioned here, but I will stress, therefore, peace in preamble, which is one of the values of the Croatian Constitution. But we know that reality is sometimes different and we can't always predict it. Indeed, in Article 7 as it is proposed to change, that is, to be preserved in certain parts, Croatian aid to the states of allies is regulated in the event of an armed attack on one or more of them, in accordance with the North Atlantic Agreement. That doesn't say it here, but that's what it's about. That's one option. The North Atlantic Agreement therefore contains in its Article 5 that clause of mutual assistance in the event of a war, i.e. an attack on one of the members, under which each NATO member decides what assistance will be provided including an armed one. And indeed, in that segment, Member States are left with the possibility to remain relatively autonomous and sovereign, but in the spirit of solidarity that they must never forget see what kind of assistance they will provide. It is indicative that, prior to Croatia's NATO membership, the NATO secretariat, Brussels did not ask Croatia for any intervention in the text and content of the Constitution. That's what we're doing right now, so it wasn't a condition. We're adjusting to a real state. But a year after joining NATO. Now, that is one variant, so when the Croatian Army crosses the Croatian borders to help an unnamed member of NATO who has been attacked, it is in trouble and we meet our obligations under Article 5. This latest variant speaks of military exercises, so something that isn't combat activity. This item you pointed to, so that the Croatian Army, or the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, can cross borders or act beyond its borders, based on a decision of the Croatian Parliament proposed by the Government, with the previous consent of the President. So that's where you pointed out one of our and one of our negative experiences in recent history, you mentioned Bosnia and Herzegovina. All right, we have that experience. It's not exactly one dimensional and unequivocal. In one part, the intervention was based on some international agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it was internationally clean and covered, some not. The question is, and this was our dilemma, if you have an armed force, do you give up any possibility in advance that this armed force will act outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia under unforeseen circumstances that could pose a threat to the Republic of Croatia and are not formally and politically covered by NATO's arrangement. It seems impossible today. I don't know tomorrow. That's why it's a very important topic to talk about. So in the root is the peace of the Croatian Constitution, at the same time as it can be a contradiction of members of a military-defense alliance which, regardless of changes in the world order and geopoliticals in the last 20 years, remains the alliance of the North Atlantic Treaty. It's a military alliance, with the same legal basis as 1949, 60 years ago. It's the first contradiction. The second contradiction is that the Croatian Constitution speaks of the declaration of war and direct war danger, it speaks of suspension of certain powers and certain human rights, but in Article 5, if I am not mistaken, it speaks precisely of which and under what conditions, so with minimal damage and minimum suspension, it provides for the powers of the President of the Republic in situations, but only in situations where the Assembly cannot meet, and these are extreme situations. So we continue to interpret, at the time of the war, the supramation of the Parliament as the highest authority of government in Croatia. Finally, you have another unusual provision in the Croatian Constitution, which under the authority of the Croatian Parliament in Article 80, says the Croatian Parliament decides on war and peace. You didn't notice that provision, as I didn't notice until yesterday, but she just acts like she's from the 19th century. But Croatia is a state, and Croatia has an army that tomorrow, not given by God, may have to act under some unforeseen circumstances that are not covered by current arrangements. Now, we can agree to call the Croatian army an example of Israel or Japan, the Israeli, or Japanese defence forces. In the case of Japan, this is defined by the Constitution, in the case of Israel's defence force for a reason, and sometimes for no reason act fat outside Israel's borders. Of course, this comparison does not call for any similarity, but I am merely warning of the sensitivity of this matter and the need for conversation. So you've seen something that we haven't talked about here, but we've been discussing because there was a reaction in the SDP, so look at what that provision means now, which means that the Croatian Army will go back to Bosnia or Hungary or I don't know in, so I don't get a country to read me wrong. So we have three situations provided for in this article of the Constitution. Like, it's an important thing, we'd like it never to come true and hopefully it won't and it's going to depend very much on us and on generations, and also on our generation how we're going to run foreign policy. But this is some kind of insurance policy, if you happen to have cover. If by chance the Parliament can't sit. So what is a state of war that we have never interpreted, and what does the Constitution mean that the Parliament decides on war and peace? It's not a war situation, it's something else. The further the Constitution, the further it does not elaborate. If we started to thoroughly search the Constitution, I don't think we'd go any further, so we wouldn't conclude it's bad, because it's not bad, and we're already getting along in it, but if there were certain slippery terrains, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40883	National Minority Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The National Minority Club supports most of the provisions contained in the Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia proposed by the three parties, i.e. a group of representatives in this Assembly. You will be surprised when I say that the provision that supports the most and that the Club of National Minorities is the happiest and proposed by these three parties is a provision concerning the adoption of a state budget. In fact, in this House, the state budget has been passed with most of the votes present. In all the parliaments of the world and in all municipalities, cities and counties of our Republic, the budget is passed with most of the councilors, and in all parliaments of all MPs. Not only that, but the moment of voting on the budget, is the moment when it shows who supports and who does not support a particular government or coalition or government at a certain point. We will now have this year, one proposal to reduce funding in all areas, we are interested in the proposal to cut down on associations of national minorities who otherwise live and for whom we have otherwise reduced funds in the past year. We believe that the proposal that we have seen, the draft proposal that we have seen, is overly reducing the resources of national minorities. And a large part of the national minorities' deputies, if it remains detained, will vote against the budget, and thus will vote against the government they otherwise support. But it won't have any effect on the practical unless all the MPs come to the assembly that day. That is why this problem that I have raised every time the budget has been passed, but every time speaking on behalf of the national minority club and on behalf of myself this time, if it agrees, the two MPs will be corrected, because this provision in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is undemocratic, because for these instruments of financial work the financial work of the financial institution in the coming year is not actually decided by the majority but decided by the majority, so 34, 35 MPs can decide if, for example, from the protest opposition, they leave the assembly. That is why we support this provision that neither HDZ nor the old SDP has supported, and I see that the new SDP is introducing this paper together with the HNS and the IDS and with representatives of national minorities who will support the proposal, we support this paper. Also, since the rights of national minorities can be best operationalised, they can achieve where national minorities live, because there people are best known to each other we also support the change in Article 32 where important newspapers are introduced into constitutional rights to local and regional, and what they should finally call once a regional self-government. The original basics change, of course, with regard to the numbering of minorities, we supported it right at the beginning, and I am glad that the majority party in this Assembly HDZ supports it, and I would not like to spend a lot of words there, I am glad that all minorities will finally be listed in the original foundations, in the preamble of the Constitution. IF we were clear, Mr Grubisic had talked about the citizens before, no one would have anything to do with it but the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that Croatia is a state of Croats and members of these and those national minorities. Here's the first article, for example, everyone always says that I quote provisions from Italy, but I know the country best, so I'll do it this time. The Italian constitution begins with an article that Italy says is a state based on work. And just like that, which is based on work. The Croatian Constitution mentions work, I say to the Social Democrats for further discussion, only about 60th article for the first time, right to work. It also has the same specific meaning. So, there is not much to say we will support it, while Croatia will be a national state it must be a country of its minorities, to be brief and clear Croatia is a national state and then there must be a state and minorities who have lived here since the ages and then be all mentioned, and then let all organised minorities be listed, which would also be one of the solutions, so that some times we do not go to the things we are complaining about because certain minorities have 11 members, not to mention which, not even organised, in which case they would be in the Constitution, organized minorities might be the solution, but I leave it of course for further discussion. I have left the right to vote of the national minorities for the end. Because before I was angry, I apologize for intervening from the bench, Mr. Vice President, when you said it wasn't nice, but now that I'm going to say what I think from the pay phone you can intervene as far as I'm concerned, because I also think that the President of the Parliament must be, the Vice President of the Parliament must be active when he's mentioned it. And he has to be able to answer. And I mention you here, Mr. Vice President, for the simple reason that you signed one document actually which, I'm going to have to ask Mrs. Kosor more because we haven't talked to her yet, which actually interrupts the coalition with most members of the national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40885	Come on, read that document. Read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40886	This document says so, you signed it he does not speak about whether we should change or not the Constitution, he talks about the measure of things, he talks about the additional right of vote from, now I will tell you, that I am showing how much a slippery terrain it is, because otherwise you would not mention so many adjectives here and so many words: "From the explanation of the said decision, it comes out, that every position expresses the unequivocal will of national minorities when no amendment to the text of the national proposal of that law is accepted," here now, "in accordance with this language, logical, synthetic, historical and final telecompression members of the national minority can only vote for one of the lists of political parties or independent candidates in one of the constituencies" There would be no mentioning so many different statements here that the situation is clear as you say. The Constitution actually gives the right, this is it, so you can read what you have signed, the Constitution gives the right to only a moment, that after the general right of vote, that members of the national minorities can vote for their representatives to resume on a special right, on the right to vote and to regulate it by law. After that, because it writes so clearly in the Constitution that it is possible in every Western civilization if it writes it can, it means that it can, and not that it does not, as I have said 100 times, then it comes out very clearly that, as a colleague of the Pupovac said, every time someone votes for the general list, when someone votes for the parties, when it is impossible for him to vote for a national minority representative to commit injustice as well as the other way around. Every time discrimination is in place, every time a member of the national minorities after voting for his national minority representative is prevented from voting for parties. And that's where the basic discrimination is being done, and it's actually taking away his rights. And you signed the HDZ gentlemen and you signed Mr. Shakespeare. You can pollemize the back, you don't have to act like you said before who the mummy is, but you can act actively, you signed that we'll discuss it, and from your speech after you spoke here on behalf of the HDZ Club, it's very clear that you've already decided. I think every party has the right to its own political destiny, so yours and your coalition, Mr. Shakespeare, we've already talked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40887	Thank you very much. Now, clearly, I have no right, and I must not pollute with you when I am chairing the Parliament because what that would mean now is that I'm going to go out and say that I've read it. What I read I read was part of the argument from my discussion in the Committee on the Constitution, and I quoted from word to word, from letter to letter. I read the explanation of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Political Parliament which made such a decision by the Committee on the Constitution chaired by the chairman of the Committee of Mr Mate Arlović and in which the parliamentary majority was one another and the Committee on Law chaired by Mr Josip Leko. So, then, the parliamentary majority, and what I have quoted is explicitly what has been transferred from the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to the decision of the Croatian Parliament, which is chaired by President Tomcic and where the parliamentary majority, the representatives of the SDP, voted in favour of such a decision. So much for that, and no polymizing on my part. HNS MPs' club, Ms. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40888	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, we have come to change the Constitution this time for the reason of the necessity of adapting Croatia's Constitution to membership in the European Union. However, as always, some of the additional ideas about what should be fixed or changed in the Constitution, as well as some topics that are not directly related to the possibility of functioning within the EU, have arisen, but are related to accession negotiations, so to meet some of the criteria that we need to end the negotiations. As regards the functioning within the European Union, in fact, only 4 articles. Only 4 articles of these constitutional changes talk about those adjustments and changes that are necessary for the functioning within the European Union, and these are those that appear under 141a to d. Then there are articles that talk about functioning within the European Union, which were largely no major obstacles, and according to how colleagues discussed, i.e., first row colleagues of the HDZ Club, it is assumed that they are accepted by the HDZ club in this proposed amendment in the team or variant in those articles, which speaks of a greater role and a greater, stronger control of the Assembly over the representatives of the executive authorities participating in the decision-making in the EU bodies as proposed by SDP, HNS and IDS. So it seems that our formulation will be accepted in this regard and there are no major obstacles because it gives Parliament a greater role and the ability to control the executive authority operating in the bodies of the European Union. The second part or Corps of these changes refers to what are the preconditions for ending the negotiations. Therefore, it is related to the specific opening and closing of specific chapters. Here we have several things, therefore independence or a stronger guarantee of the independence of the Croatian National Bank and of the State Audit. I don't think we have any major misunderstandings here. We also have some provisions concerning any entry, whether functioning within the European Union, which in itself raises some additional issues that are not necessarily related to this form of entry into the Union or to the Constitution. But then, in order for legislation to be consistent and for these measures and provisions to be at all applicable and effective, they point to the necessity of some other changes. One is the provisions relating to the European arrest warrant, namely the fact that between Croatia and the countries of the European Union the European arrest warrant must be signed and the provisions for non-delivery are then amended. However, the European arrest warrant and the whole cooperation model in this area, of course, raises the issue of interstate agreements on the mutual extradition of suspects, accused or convicted of individual crimes between Croatia and countries in the environment. Because it is obvious that our fundamental problem in the functioning of the legal system and the possibility of the functioning of the judiciary in this respect is not because people flee to Sweden in the first place or a similar country, but is based on dual citizenship and the fact that people who are accused or convicted flee from Bosnia and Herzegovina from Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's actually the biggest problem. Probably in Serbia, too. But apparently the largest number of cases in this particular case is dual citizenship where we have the largest number of people with dual citizenship between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, in order for this to have some real effect, it also raises the obvious issue of interstate extradition agreements in these cases with our neighbours. Another such area is the matter of the referendum. As you saw in our proposal, we didn't mention, we talked a lot about it, we didn't mention any new solution to the referendum, because indeed, it is a problem, if we want the referendum for Croatia's entry into the European Union to succeed. And we concluded in the end, that, with certain preconditions, the solution offered by HDZ, or the government in its proposal that we discussed here last week, could be accepted. And what did the government offer in its proposal? They offered the next solution for the referendum. The referendum to be valid takes 50% plus one vote of all voters listed in the list in the Republic of Croatia. That's roughly 4.5 million people. At this point, it means that a referendum, in order to be valid, would take 2 million and 250 thousand people into the rough. Such a provision, under the existing list of voters, clearly and loudly says that the referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union cannot succeed. Therefore, if we accept it, and it may not be far from the mind to accept the government's proposal in this regard, then it is a prerequisite to clear the voter lists. Without clearing the voter list, we can no longer get a referendum at the moment when it has become serious, and if we cannot get a referendum, we cannot get colleagues and colleagues even credible results in any parliamentary or presidential elections. Therefore, what is not good enough for the European Union cannot be good enough for elections in the Croatian Parliament. And that is why, as the international expert who came to the Croatian government's invitation four years ago here in the Parliament said in his written report, according to domestic sources, we have 400 thousand dead souls on the voters' lists in Croatia at the moment. According to my estimates, that number is closer to 900 grand. It's a report that both my colleague Shakespeare and I and everyone who was at that meeting. The man's name is Meadwcroft. So it is clear that we have lists of voters who are threatening us to succeed in a referendum that decides on the political stability of this country on the long term and on its vital interest that we have agreed on here and on which there is a consensus. So, if we want the referendum to succeed without chemistry, it is certainly a prerequisite to change the Law on the list of voters, to clean up the voter list itself, and by changing the law then to define the permanent update and manner of a permanent and automatic update of the list of voters. The second part of the HDZ/Government proposal as regards constitutional changes and as regards the referendum is, therefore, the majority is determined according to the total number of people enrolled in the voter lists, and the number of votes has fallen in the Republic of Croatia. Take a look at the formulation. That's exactly what it says. So the votes of those who voted in the Republic of Croatia are numbered. It's a government formulation and a proposal for a referendum. Now what do we have here? It is obvious that, with the greatest effort, only the Republic of Croatia and the Embassy and nothing else can be counted as the Republic of Croatia. So as not to confuse the consular representations of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. No, they're not. So, embassies and the Republic of Croatia, which practically means that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia can vote with the right to vote but in the Republic of Croatia. What's a referendum? The referendum is an expression of democratic will through direct means. Directly. What is the vote for the Croatian Parliament? Expressing democratic will in a representative way. Therefore, the election of a representative who will express the democratic will of the citizens of Croatia. This in itself says that it is impossible to have one electoral body that has the right to plead directly through a referendum and another electoral body that has the right to express itself in representative democracy through the election of MPs because these are two ways of expressing the democratic will of one and the same electoral body, one and the same democratic corpus. Only one thing directly it is a referendum, and the other is representative it is a election for the Parliament. So, given that the HDZ and the Government have proposed to count directly the votes of those who voted in the Republic of Croatia in order to make it clear to the European Union that it is very important to be a clean situation and that the referendum succeeds, then our proposal is that we accept it and say by the same logic as direct democracy is also accepted for representative democracy because it cannot be otherwise of course. So, in representative democracy, it is the same as in the direct vote by counting the votes of the people who voted, the citizens who voted in the Republic of Croatia. And if we accept this proposal from the HDZ and the Government to vote so in the referendum, then we accept it and we need to install it systematically and consistently because there is no other way and in the original law where representative democracy is defined. Therefore, it is only possible to combine these two proposals, which is what we are currently working on as a prerequisite for the adoption of this decision, this proposal of the HDZ and the Government's proposal to clear the voter lists, to amend the Law on Lists of Voters, to adapt the Law on Residence and to amend the Election Law for the Croatian Parliament and the President of the State, because the same people must have the right to vote in direct democracy and referendum and representative democracy to the elections for the Parliament, that is, let's say, an initial provision of every democracy. In the proposal there are also a number of things mentioned here and on behalf of clubs and will be mentioned in the debate and on behalf of the promoters I will also use this opportunity, but these are some highlights that I wanted to highlight here on behalf of the club. I think what is good and useful is what my colleague Pupovac and counterpart Milanovic said is to discuss this topic to be sent to our Constitution and one message of peace. So it's certainly a subject worth still discussing and that would be useful to discuss. Both the HNS club and, in that sense, it is open to this debate and will be included in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40889	Thank you. One correction from Mrs. Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. MP Pusic incorrectly said there could be no different voting rights in the case of representative democracy and direct decision-making. So it's simply not true because in a number of countries there are different solutions. I agree that the diaspora should allow the right to vote in one case and in another but it is not true that it cannot be different, as it can be under the current definition in our Constitution but also in the solutions in a number of countries of Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40891	An individual debate. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40892	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Here we have a proposal for constitutional changes to the three opposition parties and we have a session of the Constitutional Committee where the esteemed chairman of the committee said that the HDZ was acceptable 95% of the proposed majority. I am not talking about those 95%, but about those 5% that are unacceptable to HDZ because the debate only makes sense. The second is clearly already announced consensus. What is it that the HDZ is unacceptable? It's just two things. It is the right of minorities in the electoral process and it is a way of voting citizens outside the Republic of Croatia as proposed by these constitutional changes. When it comes to the right of minorities, I'd like first to clarify a wordological confusion. This is not about any additional right to vote, nor about any additional right to vote, because it is the right already in the Constitution and the Law on Elections, and it is being consummated. This is about one struggle for general and equal right to vote when it comes to members of national minorities. What kind of situation do we have now? A member of the national minority when he comes to the polls then he is told that you must vote on the minority list because you are in the minority list. He has to say no, I don't want to vote on the minority list, I want to vote as well as the Croats. He must give up his minority status in order to gain the general and equal right to vote, as do we members of the Croatian people. It is a segregation process that we must not have in modern Croatia. Whether someone is a member of a Roma, Serbian, Jewish national minority, as we must have the right to elect representatives in this parliament from a list of political parties. And that right must not be conditioned but absolutely nothing, and it is today conditioned. He can consume it, he can only achieve it if he gives up his second right, which is to elect representatives from the minority ranks for this House. It's a kind of apartheid. Imagine what this would be like in the United States if there was an electoral law whereby colored black people could choose congressmen only from their black population, or they had to give it up to vote together with white people. Such a solution that someone must give up their nationality in order to gain the general and equal right to vote in this country does not exist anywhere. Therefore, this is not a struggle for minority rights to choose their representatives. They have the right and it's good to have. This is a struggle for minority rights to be in the election procedure equal to the Croats. Mr. Pupovac said here on behalf of his party's club that he would not vote for amendments to the Constitution unless the provision of Article 7. It is an opportunity for the army, with the consent of the Parliament and the President of the Republic, to cross the borders of this country. Good thing he warned about that problem. But I would rather have said instead that his club would not accept constitutional changes if members of all national minorities, even national minorities represented here did not get the general and equal right to vote because this is a far more important issue. This isn't just a question of minority rights. This is a question for all of us. This is a question of what kind of state we're going to be. Are we going to be a segregation state or are we going to be a state of equal rights? This is a question that constitutional changes shouldn't be about taking. As far as the second issue that is unacceptable to HDZ is concerned, this is the way citizens outside the Republic of Croatia vote. The HDZ proposes one solution with two rules. One rule applies in the referendum, and another rule applies in the elections for Parliament and in the elections for the President of the Republic. The Constitution is a fundamental act of one state and must stand a provision of equal opportunities for all. And when it comes to people, citizens and political parties. There is not one rule when HDZ is fit in a referendum, and quite another when HDZ is re-emerged in parliamentary elections, and that difference is still to be introduced into the Constitution, that the Constitution sets out different rules that correspond to HDZ. The state, a parliament that would enter into its constitution two different rules in declaring citizens, in the right of citizens to choose, to decide is a state that can hardly seek its place among the civilized advanced democracies of the European Union. I am pleased that the HDZ, or the government, proposes this solution to count votes in the referendum only that fell in the Republic of Croatia. I think that's a good way to go. That's a good trip. It's a path that leads to fair elections. It's a path that will at least make it harder, if not to make it impossible to count the voices of dead souls. It's a path that will make it impossible for the electoral fraud it's been so far. And we're going that way, but not only when it comes to the referendum. We must also come to parliamentary elections and elections for the President of the Republic. And so we have to have the same rules. Because it is only so that we can proudly say that the composition of Parliament, that the President of the Republic and that the decision in the referendum of any referendum issue will be a real reflection of the will of citizens who have the right to vote. Without that, we will have no clear will. Therefore, the Constitution is not adopted for this or that occasion and the Constitution must not be an act that pleases this or that political party, this or that political group. The Constitution must lay down clear, unequivocal rules of equal rights for all citizens regardless of whether they are members of the majority people or members of the national minority. It must lay down equal and clear rules for all citizens who have the right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40893	One correction, Mr. Representative Anto Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think fellow Stazić that you have no intention of insulting MPs in this House who have been elected to the 11th constituency and because of them it is because of them responsiblely incorrectly, it is not true that it is now possible to vote in two places in Croatia and anywhere outside Croatia if you have not previously registered. That's impossible. If it's ever possible, it's not now. It's also impossible for someone who died to vote. For two reasons, he died first, and the second is impossible, so the person on the list is impossible regardless of what he is and is no longer among the living to vote instead. That's impossible. So this moment is no longer possible. If it was ever possible, now it's not possible and it needs to be clear. And finally, how this relationship will finally be regulated as it will be voted in the referendum. In Croatia, in consular offices we are discussing it anyway, we will agree. But I assure you that in 112 countries in the world, people are different, and countries have regulated this relationship differently, and some of them allow me not to know my citizens outside the country's vote in parliamentary, some in the presidential, and some in the referendum. Some on one of them, some on two of them, some on all of them, etc. Thus, it is not true that it must be tied together, that it is a practice in the world as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40895	Replica, Mr. Representative Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40896	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, a respected colleague, Nenad Stazic, said that the right to vote by every citizen of the Republic of Croatia must be the same for all and that is the right that every citizen belongs to regardless of whether he is a member of a national minority or a majority people. I absolutely agree with that, and I support that. However, let us not forget in Croatia, members of national minorities have a special right to choose their representatives and representatives, and in this way it happens that, unlike the majority people in Croatia who elect their MPs in the Assembly with about 12,000 votes for one MP, practically representatives of national minorities have been elected by some 185 or 235 votes, some and more, but some with 185 votes. Thus, through the existing system, it is possible for members of national minorities that their voice is more valuable than the voice of the majority people. Of course, there are also special needs for the protection and special rights of national minorities and this should be respected. I am for that. It is necessary to respect the structure, tradition of national minorities in... , but if we want to change the system in such a way that representatives of national minorities have a double right to vote then it must also be resolved as it has been resolved in European countries that have such practice, and in such cases it is not about such a large number of special representatives of national minorities that they have the right, but it is about a significantly smaller number. [[A speaker away from the microphone, not understood]] Therefore, the equal right of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to vote yes, and special rights for members of national minorities can be accepted, but the purpose of this is to take care of the special protection of cultural tradition and the special needs of members of the national minority, not of changing the attitude of political forces in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40897	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40898	Members of national minorities today do not have the unconditional general and equal right to vote. That's conditional. They must give up their right to elect representatives from the order of national minorities and only then, only then do they gain the general and equal right to vote. The general and equal right to vote is not general and equal to the right to vote. It doesn't exist. How many representatives of national minorities will be in the Assembly with a special list of national minorities, that is a matter that can be discussed. It's a political decision, whether it should be 5, 11, 10, anyway. It's true that they choose with a smaller number... votes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's right. But their number in the Parliament must not be a reason for members of national minorities to be subject to the right that exists throughout the democratic world to choose from the list that the majority people choose from together with the majority people. This right is nothing, but absolutely nothing must be conditioned, and especially must not be conditioned by national membership. A situation in which a Jew, a Roma, a Serb comes to the polls, so they say no, you won't put your ballot in this Croatian box of ours, you have your own box there. It's a segregation policy. That policy must not be allowed in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40899	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40900	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We here today not only as legislators, but at this time and in the coming days, that is, for months as constitutionalists, we also take a special test in front of our citizens, in front of our own citizens. That is why this is also the time for an redemption and above all for the rehabilitation of politics, and for the rehabilitation of political life in Croatia, in particular political parties that are the constitutional category, over which and over whose work control has the Constitution itself, the Constitutional Court. On several occasions, the notion of political parties appears in the existing constitution. It is therefore important that on these fundamental issues that must be found in the Constitution, those that are to continue to elaborate more precisely, there must be a political consensus. That's why it's very important, the very way it's going to come to an agreement. This is primarily assumed by not only the consensus of political parties in the Croatian Parliament, but also by a broad debate. Because first of all, questions relating to the everyday life of our citizens need to be incorporated. It is always important, especially in these moments in which Croatia is located. Since there are no more intensities, there is no more need or reason to act here in front of the Croatian people and... in the play. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] And also because many of the provisions on which I believe we will, as a whole, reach agreement on the amendments to the Constitution, would not remain a dead letter on paper, to be brought to life, so as not to act and some socialist provisions from socialist constitutions that everyone has the right to an apartment, so many have received it, but many have not, but that all constitutional provisions find their own life, especially those provisions that are not directly applied. It is therefore equally important, equally important and more important to be credible, and this is an opportunity to re-absorb our credibility to citizens of the Constitutional Law on adoption and consensus and on the content of the Constitutional Law on the application of the Constitution, or constitutional changes. And this further implies the precision of laws that must be passed and within what time. It's just as important. Otherwise we can reach a consensus by many provisions that would then remain a dead letter on paper, and about the importance of these laws, especially of two, three of the most important things I will say later. So this is exactly what it all depends on whether we remain the apprentices of democracy or become masters of democracy. The apprentices were no doubt good so far, but in which we were masters, in which many proved to be masters, not in election thefts, but in electoral crime, which unfortunately was never sanctioned. And that is something that has reversed Croatia's politics and political life, especially in the eyes of its own citizens, and that voice has been poorly heard to Brussels. There's little time to talk about what already exists in principle, so I'm also going to use this time to talk about the points of reluctance. It's not a good thing there's a fight on what I said before, in elections, in this kind or that kind. How to vote in the referendum, equally in the elections of minority rights. So... it's a bad message to the public that we are, however, interested in the most important choice. That's it. Often, it seems to be repeated in practice turning into electoral manipulations. That is why when we speak and discuss the referendum, it is a one-way solution to all questions, and that is something that will be imposed on itself, the necessity and the change of the electoral law, to resolve the elections uniformly not then on nature and species when we need them and how many votes we need. So, that someone not only gets election crumbs from that election table, but that really voters are voters, voters, above all. We are witnesses, and I will particularly apostrophe this as a necessity to change the electoral law and consensus on these matters and on the referendum that elections are not an opportunity to hunt votes, especially to hunt for votes from the diaspora. A lot of diaspora has been manipulated all these 20 years. With a diaspora from overseas countries when it was hunting for money, politicians from the European Union at the time deunciated us that Croatian politicians are only interested in cash, other forms of assistance are not interested, and now it reminds us of this. When it comes to diaspora from the neighbouring country, to be completely open to what we are talking about here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we need their vote. Now that it is in the referendum, that vote has become a burden to achieve an elegant approach to the European Union and is expressing doubts about these voters that they will not come out in such a large number. Therefore, they are suspected of these own voters who have often made decisions about who will rule and how they will rule in the Republic of Croatia, and this is their gratitude that they now question these same voters and those same voters better said. That's unfair to these people. That's unfair to these people. Therefore, if so, they would not feel it as an injustice and that it would not again look like an electoral mechanism that serves to obtain certain results that we need uniformly to solve all sorts of choices and then it would be a pure account and pure love among our voters of this kind, regardless of who has a residence or residence. This is not the question now whether we are talking about residence or residence is the fact that it is a matter of inefficientness that even the state administration does not control it, but it is an opportunity to not only specify the law but also to control that law and its application and its enforcement. This is one test, these are important questions precisely for political life and its purity, so it's an opportunity to drain that political swamp so that every little bit of that mud from that swamp doesn't come back and muddy political life, legality, and on its own legitimacy to the ruling ones, and even then in all of that, those who are from time to time in opposition. So, we should talk here not about the electoral citizens, but until today, or until the last elections, it has reached such a amount, such a accumulation that we can freely talk about electoral crime, which is not sanctioned and which then shows, and also about these events in connection with detention until yesterday's prominent people. So, not to create an impression in Croatia that only the one who doesn't catch him is to blame, so it's not a problem to steal, but the one they've captured, while the one they haven't caught is still considered a successful individual, or one community or group in which it works, it's also manifested in a non-political life. It cannot be denied, the fact that a man came and testified in Croatia, they are in the last presidential elections, he personally testified that every 4 years or when the elections of the species come to see his late father there because he is there every time referred to as a voter. Of course he doesn't see it, but he's always convinced that the vote might be seen. It is also one of the most important issues, just as I have said not to prosecute this type of crime but also many others, that it makes a commitment in the law that, on the basis of the existing constitutional provision, how independent the judiciary is but to the extent that an individual within it, or a judicial official, does not commit a criminal offence. That's why we need to re-introduce the act that evaporated, faded in 97 from our criminal legislation, but equally so that she norms and those norms that Dr. Ivo Josipovic and the non-depreciation of converted crime, but what is not obsolescence alone, but what is happening today would not eat...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40901	All right, all right. The visionary who was seen in his dead father's election was sentenced by a Croatian court's final verdict for electoral fraud. Mrs. Ana Lovrin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Anticevic, it is not true that we are only interested in the elections. We are interested in editing Article 141 of the existing Constitution for the need for legitimacy in a referendum on entry into the European Union which is now seeking to join a very strict majority of all voters. Therefore, in order to carry out a referendum and to be able to carry out an association in the European Union, we need to edit this article. But it is true that you are interested in the elections and that you have welcomed this opportunity to change the Constitution and take away the voice of the diaspora because you have never liked the electoral result from the diaspora, so you have often had the habit of underestimating some of the votes of some voters and counting whether they are given in the diaspora, whether they are days in urban areas, and then they are more valuable, or whose votes are more valuable in the rural areas, and then they are less valuable, or whether they are from the south of Croatia or from the north, and so they are constantly counting on who received the vote and whose vote is more valuable. We are therefore interested in resolving the matter of the referendum and voting quorum for joining the European Union, and you are interested in opening some other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40903	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40904	Dear colleague Lovric, I did not say that you were only interested in this, but that this gives you the impression that you are only interested in it, but the truth is that I can make a mistake and I am in that sense right now correcting that you are really now in this replica of yours is showing entirely that this is the only thing that interests you right now. But that's what we're going to do, and we're going to solve it, I believe, in those negotiations and that question. And you know very well why this question is important. Me and you here live in Zadar, you also remember that famous ship that had an indicative name, a boat called "Quick" that's up to the island... And the neighboring islands traveled for three days, and his captain of that time, the commander, who designed all of this, spoke on the journalist's inquiry as to how it was possible for a few miles to cross for three days, and why did the ship sail so much? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it was stolen there literally by a number, it was determined by the police, an election theft, but the defendant was never discovered because there was a closed circle of five people, so it couldn't be found out exactly who he was. So he answered that the ship traveled as long as needed. Now we also create and get the impression that we will allow the diaspora to vote, that their number will be as numbered and as necessary. This time it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40905	Okay, but now that's a correction to the impression. Correction in the replica, and I believed that you colleagues, Ingrid, were infallible, and now you've brought into doubt. You said sometimes you could make a mistake. It was hard for me that you could be wrong. And Agent Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Proposed by Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40906	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the Proposer, may not be on the cover of two clarifications. So obviously, at the end of the day, we've largely directed the debate towards two points. One issue is the statement in the referendum against the issue of voting and the other is the issue of additional voting rights. So let me say something on behalf of the promoter about these two points. As for the statements in the referendum, there may have been some HDZ MPs deluded in his debate last week as Vice-President of the Seks Assembly spoke of there being different ways in other countries as voters pleaded at the referendum. That is true, but if you had listened carefully, you would have heard that he said there are so many different ways not to determine the minimum of those who have to go to the referendum but simply say the referendum has succeeded and the result of the referendum is why the majority of those who went to the referendum decide. In other words, there is no quorum or threshold as many people or how many voters must go to the referendum, and he did not speak about what you are now repeating, which is that there is another electoral body that is declared by a referendum directly or in Parliament's elections for representative democracy. Of course in national referendums. You can have a local, regional, referendum in one city. You can have a referendum in one municipality and then, of course, it is limited to voters in that municipality or in that region or county or anywhere else, but when it comes to the national referendum, there is no possibility that one of them has the right to vote or in one way plead in a direct statement, and in another way in a statement for representative democracy. You will not find this anywhere, and I am particularly surprised by my colleague, Bagaric, from the diaspora, who advocates limiting the diaspora's right to vote in the referendum, and on the other hand to leave it in the same way in a statement and a vote for the Croatian Parliament. It can't be at a national referendum. Like I said, it could be regional, municipal, city, etc. This is clear, and what fellow Shex was talking about was not that this part was different regulated in other countries but that the question of establishing what most voters who go to the referendum needed was different, and that is true, defined in different countries, namely very often defined in the same way as Parliament's choice. So, most of those who went out. It is true, but not that a different Corps is given the right to vote in a referendum and a different Corps in Parliament's elections. So, of course, when it comes to national referendums, we need to be clean about what we're talking about. As far as additional voting rights are concerned, the additional right to vote for members of national minorities can actually be best understood if we go for the reason why we have representatives of national minorities and reserved seats for representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament. The reason for this is collective knowledge that there is discrimination in our society on the basis of ethnicity. If there were no such thing, and if we were convinced there was no such thing, there would be no reason why there would be reserved places for representatives of national minorities. Our goal is logical and common, that in time, whether that time is 10 years, 50 years, anyway, but that over time, we do pass any discrimination on ethnicity and in a situation in which we will not be, we will be aware and we will all agree that ethnicity is not any basis for any discrimination, the need for special representation of national minorities and for these reserved places will be lost. But while we are all aware that this exists, so far there is a need that we have also all agreed that national minorities should be presented in particular. Therefore, this additional right to vote is also temporary, whether in 10 or 50 years, while there are special representatives of national minorities in Parliament. And the fact that we are thus trying to combat ethnic discrimination in our own society cannot be a reason to take away citizens who are also members of national minorities, their political right to vote. Because any Serb, Italian, Bosniak, anyone Hungarian, can be a Social Democrats, can be a conservative, can be a liberal, can be whatever they want, as politically as any Croat. Therefore, he has the right to vote politically for the option he chooses personally and for which he is personally identified. And his additional right to vote or to provide him with representation only in that small segment of interest relating to ethnicity. Therefore, which refers to the fact that this person belongs to a minority group. And that part of the team is actually our instrument or common way of gradually dictating discrimination on an ethnic basis or for ethnic reasons in Croatian society. And that makes sense this idea of additional law, because it is a de facto way not to do so to members of national minorities the right to a political statement, but to allow all of us to achieve a common goal, which is to do with any ethnic discrimination in Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40907	Thank you. Two corrections. One is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Pusic, I haven't said at all what I stand for, ever. I've just been saying it so far, and I keep saying it all the time. Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are interested in all that is in favour of the Republic of Croatia. This means that if there is no political party in this House that is against the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, then there is no dispute. And we're all gonna make it happen. And now it's just a matter of technique. And when it comes to this incompatibility of both forms of expression, i.e. voting either in parliamentary, presidential or referendum, you are completely wrong. ... Just give me a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] According to the International Elections Institute, I'll give you that page. Here's 20 countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40909	Peace, please. So tell me what's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40910	It is incorrect and incompatible that one type of declaration cannot be granted and the other cannot be approved. Here's the other one. In Argentina, you can vote in parliamentary elections, in presidential elections, but you can't vote in a referendum. While at the same time you can vote for parliament for the referendum in Canada, and you cannot vote for the presidential elections. So different approaches are different and you deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40911	A colleague, Pusic, made one claim, you deny it. And Mrs. Agent Anna Lovrin, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40912	Thank you very much. So, I almost forgot what I was denying. But I deny the claim that we may have been confused by exposing Vice President Shakespeare to one of the former sessions. ... So we weren't confused. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We've been saying what we're saying because we know it ourselves. And it is not about the different electoral corps in the Croatian Democratic Community proposal, but as defined later on by the proposal on the Committee on the Constitution, before discussing the Croatian Democratic Community proposal, where only the quorum needed for the referendum to be successful, and then the number of voters enrolled in the Republic of Croatia was discussed, 50% of the necessary exit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40913	I think fellow Pusic that my party colleagues and colleagues were not mistaken. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40914	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. So the proposed constitutional changes whether by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by part of the Croatian Parliament's representatives came, they were in principle the final step of the Republic of Croatia towards full membership in the European Union. One and another proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has most similar or even identical proposals. Since supporting the European arrest warrant for the arrest and extradition of persons being prosecuted, regardless of whose nationals they are, this will eventually end those who abuse dual citizenship using asylum of either country or other. The independence of the Central Bank of Croatia, i.e. The Croatian National Bank is responsible for the Parliament. There is no major challenge in the proposal for compulsory education, because we are all aware of how important this is and how important this was as a basis for further education or for acquiring knowledge or calling, so that individuals can become more easily or more involved in the world of work. However, I am particularly positive that one and another proposal is going towards the non-depreciation of the crimes committed in the process of conversion and privatisation in the Republic of Croatia, because we are all aware together that the damage done and lost time in the economic development of the Republic of Croatia as well as the great life-long existential trauma of many workers and their families who have lost their jobs will not be able to compensate or repair. It is therefore good for both proposals to be complemented, looking for a solution to punish the perpetrators of immoral and criminal acts from the process of conversion and privatisation regardless of possible limitations. The conversion and privatisation caused great damage in billions of kunas to the state of Croatia and its economic development, especially in the period from 1992 to 1995, and the nest of these abuses was then the Croatian Privatisation Fund. This epicenter of privatisation evil is a safe haven and a clue for all other immorality and illegality that occurred in conversion and privatisation. Along with various bags, privileged tycoons that robbed companies, companies destroyed jobs special in conversion and privatisation had then some of the Croatian banks that were transmissions of many bags and tycoons. That is why, with the epicenter of privatisation evil at the time, as I said, the Croatian Privatisation Fund could come through business transactions of banks that are not Croatian today but should not be spared or bypassed in the revision of any kind. That time was the period of creation of a new ownership structure in Croatia that became part of a new financial and political oligarchy. The saddest fact is that this whole conversion and privatisation took place under the auspices of the war, while many workers fought for Croatia, various frauds robbed their businesses, closed their jobs and made themselves rich. This time is crucial for the dramatic social separation created in injustice and immorality. In order for the time of immoral and criminal acts of robbery to be forgotten how long I think it will take at least two generations after we do. Some individuals today who have had their tails drawn from immorality and crime through which they have been successfully enriched and acquired such values, property, movables, and money that honest work would not earn to live five lives. They try to impose themselves as prominent and moral citizens today convincing all of us in their ability and honesty that they have become rich. In my opinion, they'd be better off dragging themselves into a mouse hole instead of trying inconclusively to justify their family property situation. The workers even though they were robbed, but they couldn't fool them so that their machinations would be forgotten. As I said to them, about 386 thousand were then out of jobs. Many are retired. I will remind you that in 93, there were 794 thousand 811 pensioners in Croatia and that the largest number of workers retired from the period from 93 to 99 when the number of pensioners increased from 213 thousand or rose to a million 18 thousand pensioners. Many in that number of 213 thousand pensioners did not participate because they wanted to because they could only choose between unemployment or retirement because unfortunately their jobs were no longer available. This constitutional change should be marked by war crimes and profit by the robbery committed in conversion and privatisation and that the crimes committed do not become obsolete on this basis. The People's Proverbs says they've been kidnapped so that this kind of wealth is always on glass feet and this constitutional proposal will make individuals very uncomfortable with peaceful dreams. In the end, I believe it would be good to support the Committee's proposal for work and social partnership to actively participate in this revision of conversion and privatisation and help with its authority in this mission. So I will repeat once again the proposal of the Committee, which is that the Croatian Parliament shall establish either a commission or someone else who will work closely with all relevant state institutions and associations that have knowledge of illegality, immorality, criminal acts through conversion and privatisation and that once a year the results of all these activities are submitted to the Croatian Parliament, this means to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40915	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40916	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I cannot agree with the fact that most of the negativity and irregularities were in the period between 92 and 95 when we talk about privatisation. Why? Because most of the economic operators when we talk about the Croatian south were privatised just between 2001, 2002 and the end of 2003, so at the time of the mandate of the coalition government led by the SDP. And I am convinced that this possibility of re-inspecting, especially after learning that some companies are bought by their own means, so also by stocking the shares of those same companies that have not yet been bought, is actually taking up credit to buy the same company. Well, it could have been done by anyone. When you pawn the shares of a company you didn't buy as the basis for the loan you're buying that company. This is exactly what has happened, but we will talk about this in the privatisation of Dubrovnik hotels and I am sure it will be one of the topics in the Croatian Parliament because what happened during that period is not commendable but for every criticism and for reviewing the legality of the privatisation of Dubrovnik hotels.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40917	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40918	Thank you very much. So look, colleague Matušić, surely after 95, what I said was not stopped, and in some way, the illegal privatisation that was being carried out further. She's stretching. Well, in the end, you still have a day today of situations and examples of where it is conducted in an immoral, illegal way, and they write about it in fact daily. So I was talking about that one illegal, immoral part of which I am very well aware of because I was involved in the end and I was present at not knowing how many events, protests against various tycoons, malvers who robbed the company's money and closed jobs. And that's normally the most controversial. However, according to all the statistics and according to indicators that no proposal from either MPs or the Government has been denying exactly the time when the Privatisation Act was passed and it was passed somewhere in 92 years, I remember then Mr Manolić explained to us especially in the union what this law meant about privatisation although approximately afterwards the effects of this law were seen. So I'm sure it was and it will be, but that's why it has to end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40919	Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In my debate, I would return to the very idea and purpose and today's debate, which we had on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is, most of it in this honorable Croatian Parliament. I think today is also a historic moment, the same moment that we brought to the Christmas Constitution in 1990. Why? I think that today we are taking a major step in making our country meet the conditions of negotiations with the European Union's chapter, one of our most recent key foreign-political objectives, which is that our country becomes a full member of the European Union and an equal member of all the peoples of the European Union, which will make our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia a citizen of the European Union. I think we went wrong in some club debates and individually when we said that any of our representatives here in the Croatian Parliament thought of any right to discriminate, especially the right to express political will in this country. I think those times are long behind us and I think our citizens in the '90s elections have said what they think of those situations and those times when any of whose rights have been justified in this country. There is a new challenge in front of our citizens. In front of us representatives in this honorable Croatian Assembly is a new challenge, which is to prepare our country in quality to be a full member of the European Union. I think that we have agreed on key issues, which are the engulfing of constitutional provisions where we will change our Constitution according to those requirements that we have left in the negotiating chapters where we think of Chapters 17, 23, 24, 32 and these are issues of the independence of the Croatian National Bank, the issue of the active and passive right of voters in the Republic of Croatia and in the countries of the European Union, the issue of a European arrest warrant, the issue of independence of the State Office for Audit and all those issues which are the key consequence of our country's successful negotiations for our country's entry into the European Union. In addition, by providing a constitutional basis pursuant to Article 141 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution to implement a constitutional referendum which I, as a representative in this House, have no doubt at all. I do not think that the referendum on our, the will of our electoral body is doubtful whether we agree to enter the countries as a full member of the European Union, I think that we have long ago said that in our original foundations and in our fundamental intentions of the Croatian Constitution. We are here today talking about extending the list of national minorities in the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution, and when it comes to issues, we say about the referendum that we are discriminating any right. I think we're completely wrong about that. I think that here because of the perception of the public and because of all those who are following the meeting and speaking in this Croatian Assembly, we should clearly say that we as the Croatian Democratic Community of the ancient 1990s have said what we think about the rights of our citizens, what we think about freedoms and rights in our country and what we think about who can express our political will. I think that today in the Croatian Parliament there are also members of national minorities who, according to positive legal regulations in our country, have chosen the right to participate in this Croatian Assembly. And I think I can honestly say what they think and what they want in this country. I believe that there is a historic moment ahead of us, and I believe that this historic moment must not be misrepresented in any debate. I think that after quality discussion of the proposed constitutional changes on the joint working group, we will further define some key points that have remained controversial and with discussions on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. And I think we're going to have 2/3 of what's in the interest of our people, which is in the interest of our generations and of all those who are in colleges and schools today and who are learning about the history of our country, about our key moments that we've had in the 1990s, '95. and in 2000 and today 2009, I hope in 2011 to realize that our honorable role in this Croatian Assembly was to prepare our children and those who are educated in the interests of our country to be full members of the European Union. This is our key task, our key goal, which at no time should be twisted by any day-to-day political interests, by impenetrable bickering. This is about a basic document. This is about the sanctity of the Croatian country and the sanctity of this honorable Croatian assembly. And I think it's high time that at this serious moment for our citizens and at these moments of economic crisis and the situations we are in, we don't spread the thesis where we don't need to, but that our country congratulates on the success of all those who have gained such good results in the negotiating chapters. And this constitutional change itself is the result of the success of our negotiators and the outcome of our country's preparation for joining the European Union to be aware of the moment and time and to adopt together 2/3 of the majority without any major differences. I support them, and I believe that they are one of the most important national interests at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40921	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 15.00 hours. It's Mr. Iron Flego's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40922	Nothing, we continue the debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which were submitted by 52 representatives of the Croatian Parliament, and we achieve a record in the smallest number of representatives present at the debate, 6 of us. It's all in the Rules of Procedure. I call upon Mr. Iron Flag's esteemed representative to take his word for it in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The constitution is by my judgment and the adoption of the Constitution or the amendment of the Constitution by my court is a sort of ceremony, but also a very deep and rich, heavy commitment. It's actually about bringing in those normative solutions that are going to get us beyond the existing state, which is why they're called normative. And it's actually about turning or approaching a politically developed and democratically functioning world. In that sense, and from that position, the Constitution is no Bible, no sacred book, so nothing that would be supernatural or uncircumcised, but our work and in this sense the Constitution is what we decide and what we choose, since we decide to do so, is very binding. I need to look back at two elements or two dimensions of this constitutional work or work on changes to the Constitution. On the one hand, there is positive discrimination, the other is the system of education. Western states have gone through a number of evolutionary stages. I'll stay for two New Ages. On the one hand, in the 17th and 18th centuries, there is a serious theoretical question, and then a legal and political question in which to establish good rule. On the one hand, it is the rule in which none of its segments will have absolute authority, so there is a division of power, and on the other hand, a good rule is the rule in which good citizens are. The question therefore raises how to establish good citizens, good citizens of fellow Members and fellow MPs are established according to current education theories. But Parliament stops being an advisory body, and I have to go back a little bit in history to remind you of some almost elemental facts, and it becomes a legislative assembly, i.e. The body that becomes law-making, representing the legislative assembly, raises the question of who Parliamentarians represent and how they are elected. They are primarily chosen by property and tax census, then chosen by the spread of voting rights, that this right would eventually become universal and that in the 20th century almost all countries, this right of vote would actually become so universal that any discrimination between the population would be abolished. I would like to warn of a turn or a new dimension that occurs in the second half of the 20th century, where a new kind of discrimination is introduced in which a turn is introduced. It's so-called. positive discrimination. Because politically developed and democratically functioning societies realize that their internal differences are really their wealth, that what's different from them, so what's different from most, is different by saying that the minority is what allows the wealth of life to be completely different choices, the wider horizons and so on. First, at the level of political theory, and later on, political practices begin to break the idea of so-called. positive discrimination, i.e. on the effort to attribute the so-called "majority" to different types of minorities. Excess rights in relation to the majority of whose excess rights most protect the minority, seeks to maintain them in their culture, in their way of life, in their systems of value, to contribute to the wealth of the lives of the majority. This political, moral and cultural principle has managed to translate some of the advanced countries into legal principles and I would be very pleased, and therefore I call on both MPs and MPs in this House to decide on such a step and therefore give representatives of national minorities what we think would satisfy the principles and principles that I am talking about in any case. Secondly, the second point I want to briefly look at is a point that also stems from the 18th Enlightenment tradition, but in fact in its particulars it extends to the 19th century, which is the endeavor to train a citizen to live, i.e. that they are educated on the one hand in such a way that they can be directed in an increasingly complex world and given some basic, some basic knowledge and some basic skills in political co-decision. So, on the one hand, education becomes profiled as a general education, but on the other hand in the world of increasingly complex work operations, in the era of industrialization, the need to systematically educate people for work is indicated. So, you give them the waist. And it seems to me that every political effort in the 21st century should not fall below the level of political thinking reached and in fact the political thresholds of the 19th century. So, of course, in our proposal, we advocate general education, but we believe that education in Croatia can and must be mandatory and free of charge until the first qualification, until the first term is acquired. Until the state makes sure that people are trained to provide means of life, and thus stops to say so on their own feet, that their own existence depends on their own efforts and their own work. In this sense, then, we advocate that education be articulated differently, that certainly raises the scales, that is, most of the compulsory education, it does not remain on the ground anymore, but cannot stand on the general, but rather that education is compulsory and free, while in addition to this general education each individual and individual receive no more professional education until they get a certain calling that will enable them to obtain the means to live through their work. The higher the level of this scale, the higher the education of citizens, the better it will be, people, not just individuals but collectives, not just collectives, but different territorial units, the better the country in the ultimate line of humanity, thus explaining our demand for education to be mandatory and free until the first qualification, or until the first calling. So I wanted to warn you about these two points that are crucial to me in changing the Constitution. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40924	Thank you, Mr. Representative. The next person reported for the debate is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40925	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. First of all, a group of reasons or parts of the constitutional amendments we are discussing today, which I believe are well prepared, better structured and reasoned than the constitutional amendments tabled by the Government. I am primarily referring to the proposed provision of Article 31, i.e. not obsolescence of converted privatisation crime and the introduction of war profits. Secondly, the proposal relating to Article 45 concerning the vote of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia could also be accepted and said that this proposal is good, that the polling stations should only be on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but I ask the applicants, and in the hall I only see Mr Mimica and my colleague Fleg from the proposings, don't you think that this proposal of the Constitutional Provision makes you drive the rabbit and that you can push the fox out? Namely, are you prepared to face a counter-proposal of the HDZ if this is accepted to be a constitutional provision for the 11th constituency to be put in place by a correspondence vote. That's what some countries have. Are you ready to accept this proposal that Croatian citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia do what we call the diaspora vote by letter. This proposal which is to draw and give legitimate rights to HDZ to such a response, if you are willing to face it ok. Article 90 of the adoption of the budget by a majority of the total number, otherwise this should not be a provision in the Constitution, that of our Rules of Procedure, in time someone who sat down there did not write down the provision of most of those present, in the municipality of a thousand inhabitants, the budget is adopted by most of all council members, and the state budget for most of the present years, but let us now change it instead of the Rules of Procedure by the Constitution. The choice of judges of the Constitutional Court by two-thirds majority, I think it's a good proposal. Now following three areas with large questionnaires, I ask if it is possible for you to accept the government's proposal in Articles 123 and 124 that the State Judicial Council and the State's Attorney's Council be governed not by the Constitution but by the law. So far, the Constitution has determined who and how the State Judiciary Council and the State Attorney's Council are elected. Both the Government and you suggest that the way in which the State Judiciary Council and the State Attorney's Council are elected should be regulated by law. Whether it's an organic law, it needs most of all MPs or most of those present. Here it takes two-thirds of us to change the Constitution and you're giving up the current provisions of the Constitution that the Constitution has established the way of choice, it doesn't have to be chosen by either body, but in the Constitution, it has to remain a provision as it chooses, not by law. This is the only weapon, means, 2/3 of the majority in the assembly and by the Constitution we give up the rights as an opposition to define in the Constitution the choice of those two by me for the judiciary key bodies for the good functioning of the judiciary. The second group of questionnaires. You may find the next parliamentary elections unconstitutional. The Constitution states that the Croatian Parliament has 160 MPs, and then in the laws and elections we have a provision to elect out of 10 election units in Croatia 140 MPs, in the 11th constituency of those who have forgotten the diaspora, the maximum number of MPs that can be selected is 14, with 53% responding to the vote, and 8 national minorities, and when you add it up to 162. What if when we introduce a letter vote for the 11th constituency and we get 14 MPs at 11, 8 at 12, and 140 representatives of these 10 in Croatia, two people will cross? This constitutional change must be resolved or said wait for the electoral system in Croatia until now was not in line with the Constitution, and I do not think it is. Because that could have happened theoretically in past elections, and as soon as theoretically possible, it's our obligation to prevent it from happening, not waiting for it to happen. The third group of questionnaires, in March last year's public defender Jurica Malcic officially addressed the Croatian Assembly, reminding us, is our attorney-general for the protection of citizens' rights with the proposal for constitutional changes and the extension of its powers as prescribed in Article 92. The Constitution and the Justice Department. All the opposition parties then supported it. Today, the three opposition parties are proposing constitutional changes and do not propose to amend or supplement Article 92 and extend the powers of the attorney general. What changed since March last year? In a political reflection on the role and position of the attorney general, I do not know of anything important to change and ask whether amendments should be intervened at the last minute, or whether one and the other promoter and the Government and groups of opposition parties in the time ahead and that promise to the Ombudsman will be remembered. Finally, something that is not acceptable to me and which I cannot support and I will not support, which refers to Article 15 and to a proposal for an additional vote or a double right of the vote of the national minorities. In fact, 14 seats in the House by letter of the law are reserved for MPs, maximum 14, in the 11th constituency, clearly. 8 seats are reserved in the 12th National Minority Election Unit. It is more than 13% of seats predetermined by 2 electoral units. Does this proposal mean that members of the national minorities are voluntarily and willingly, even by supporting their political leaders at the moment, into political ghettoisation? That they want to remain politically ghettoized in a special constituency or long-term thinking about becoming political Croats? Is this logic in the European Parliament where it should be reserved places for, say, Turks, Algerians, Moroccans and Albanians who are very much in the European Union and have the citizenship of those countries? In Slovenia, there are two representatives of national minorities in the assembly, but you know what rule there is? National minority representatives do not participate in the creation of a parliamentary majority after the elections, but only when it is created do they adhere to or the authorities already formed or the opposition, and in Croatia who first signed an agreement to create or attempt to create a parliamentary majority? Who in turn signed the accession of one of the possible parliamentary majority? Who was third in a row? The first, second and third parties were representatives of national minorities. They should be the last and should not be decisive in creating a parliamentary majority. And now by giving an additional right to vote, I would ask whether it will be a member of the national minority on a single ballot who will vote for his representative to defend his national interests in the Croatian Parliament, and then choose a Croat or a political Croat to represent him with other interests? This is the recognition of large parties, I thus interpret it, that they are not ready to represent the interests of national minorities but therefore there must be special representatives, but since there are always no votes in the IDS, HNS and SDP parliamentary elections, they expect that national minority voters in the 10th constituency will vote for them and are looking for actually additional voters for better election results. And there's nothing else behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40926	Thank you very much. One rectification of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40927	I am correcting Mr. Lesar's incorrect allegations that SDP, HNS and IDS expect members of the national minorities to vote for them and that this will improve the election result. In the 12th electoral unit for all national minorities, including the Serb national minority, which even has special status under the Constitutional Law, 19000 194 citizens of the Republic of Croatia used their right to vote in the 12th National Minority Election Unit, which would not increase the number of MPs in total if they all voted for one party more than one. So that's an incorrect quote, Mr. Lesar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40928	Thank you very much. And now you can stand up again, Your Honor, because you have an individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as well as any constitution of any democratic or non-democratic country, but primarily the democratic country is the expression of a broad social consensus, i.e. a social agreement. Since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, this is the first time that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has changed, and that the option that is in power at that time does not have enough votes to change it itself. And this will be the first social agreement of the largest or all political options in the Republic of Croatia on the change of the Constitution. So it wasn't 1999 or '98. when the Constitution first changed. It wasn't, let's be honest, not even in 2001 when the Constitution changed twice. 2009 or 2010 will therefore be the first real social agreement since that agreement in 1990. I will therefore look at three things which are different at this time in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in the proposal of 52 or more opposition representatives. The first difference is that the opposition's proposal continues to propose that a two-thirds majority is required for any deployment of the army outside the borders. And that's good, I think that's good. Although we can now discuss whether, for example, a signature on the Washington Agreement would, on joining NATO, ask us to make it a little easier for us to send our soldiers in case a NATO member was attacked, but perhaps it would be a topic if we had consulted that decision with the people so that we had brought it to the referendum, so it would be a little easier. This way, when we've already brought in the most ordinary majority as a veterinary cooperation agreement with Bangladesh, then let's keep it two-thirds, and then we'll look for a social agreement every time we're asked to do so individually when we haven't already asked for it in that main case of joining NATO. On the other hand, the same thing is also required when inviting foreign troops to Croatia in the event of an attack. As for references to peacekeeping missions under the authority of the United Nations, it is good to have the opposition involved. To be painfully clear, our soldiers there don't go on vacation, go on vacations, go on missions that are dangerous and can, God forbid, happen not to bring everyone back alive, and then it's much better for both the government and the opposition to take on together and for that responsibility when the citizens have chosen us for it. Whoever at that moment was in power and whoever at that moment was in opposition. We will remember in 2003 and the first major Croatian military peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan, Friday morning, the debate on Afghanistan, and then the opposition against. Friday afternoon's vote, and then the opposition will. Thus, the two - thirds majority also helps the opposition to be a little responsible. Which we're very glad can be held accountable whenever we want, not every time they pick chestnuts. The other thing about which there are disagreements, in fact about these two-thirds of how I read in the media and there will be no major opposition because the government will not insist on this proposal until the end. The second thing is the issue of electoral arithmetic and geometry as soon as possible, it is a special right to vote for members of national minorities and to vote so-called. Diaspora, or citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. As for therefore special or double voting rights for members of the national smaller ones, this also depends on electoral legislation. In 1995, parliamentary elections were both elected on the list and in the electoral unit. So then the members of the national minorities received two ballots, like all other citizens, and voted for the state-listed parties on the state list for the general list and voted for the territorial electoral unit either for the territorial electoral unit or for the minority representative. And that difference hasn't been seen as much, as you can now see in this election model. I told Mr. Lesar about it, so I'll say it one more time. In the 12th electoral unit for members of Hungary, Italy, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Montenegro, Macedonia and the Slovenian national minorities, and election units where members of other national minorities vote, so to be clear this is the electoral unit where last time he was a German representative, and now the Roma national minority, a total of 19,000 194 voters voted. Which means they all voted for one party. There, the result of the election would not have changed for more than one MP. So many failed votes in the 11th diaspora electoral unit, there were 16 thousand 207, which is the one the HDZ received at the expense of Lijanovic's votes and others, according to an unfixed quota. Therefore, when we talk about the double right of minority vote, except for a minority who has more than 1.5% of the population who also has special status in the Constitutional Law, including in our Election Law, would have the same effect on the election result in the Republic of Croatia, as the cast votes in the 11th electoral unit influence. The difference is in 2,000 and 900 votes. Therefore, Prime Minister Sanader, when negotiating with national minorities, said, correct me if I'm wrong, that it was discussed that members of so-called. Small minorities have a double right to vote. It's a social deal. How many representatives of the Serb minority will be. That's what he said. I used his formulation on purpose, so these are the minorities they have below 1.5%. The issue of social agreement, the question of how many members of the Serb minority will have the right to be elected in the 12th electoral unit. In 2003, when the Constitutional Law was passed, it was defined to be three. In the 2000 elections, it was defined to be only one, and the number of voters was approximately the same, 200 and some thousands. If they were to be selected by a non-fixed quota in 2003, they would be 3 or 4, and in '92. There were 11 or even 12 years of age. So, it's a matter of social agreement. And the time for this social agreement is now, because the next changes to the Constitution I doubt will be over the next eight or nine years. And also the right to vote by citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. If it is already up to the government whether their voice is heard on HDZ posters in the 11th constituency and whether or not their voice is heard, whether or not to count, as the Government's proposal now states, then it may be doubtful whether the current legal and constitutional solution is just. The largest number of citizens without residence in the Republic of Croatia who have Croatian citizenship live in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, by the way, are not a national minority, but a constituent nation. Although politics in the last 20 years has almost reduced our status as a national minority. So, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina provides that the right to vote citizens with dual citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina only have if they have residence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So if a country with the largest number of members of the Croatian people and other peoples who have a Croatian passport has a solution that does not give everyone the right to vote, I don't see why they can't discuss it in the Republic of Croatia. Since the adoption of constitutional changes will pass two or three more readings in the Croatian Parliament, that there will be more spears on these issues that I will not say controversial, but about which I am different and everyone can have their own opinion, but if they are bathed in trenches, then there will be no social agreement, let this be my modest contribution to this debate and, of course, this government's initiative at this stage I will support and hope that the working group will succeed in one solution that will be acceptable to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40930	Thank you very much. A distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar appeared for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40931	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, election mathematics and calculations about the possible influence of this voting model are a little weaker for you, because it rests on the fact that the response will be as it was in Austria-Hungarian history I think I'm characterizing the thing. By listening to the discussions of some colleagues from the proposing parties of these proposals, I have seen one of the arguments that this will achieve a greater interest in citizens of national minorities in responding to the elections, and by doing so, the argument of such waste. And when it comes to the social agreement most significant in history, such a chance was unfortunately missed on 16 October 2003, when the decision of the Croatian Parliament found that there was an unequivocal and clear will of the Croatian Parliament that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia had only one vote. Now I ask what is so different or that these are members of the national minorities in the meantime in a more subordinate position that in 2009 we now deny the social agreement at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40932	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, Representative Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40933	As regards the first social agreement you mentioned in 2003, if I remember correctly, it was the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and as you know for the Constitutional Law also required 2/3 of the total number of votes. Therefore, the social agreement was reached by one who was possible at that time and against the law was ultimately voted on by only five HSP deputies. Therefore, the opposition at the time was not for the double right to vote and the position apparently defended what it could have agreed at that time. The move in the law was that instead of five members of the national minorities in the parliament, eight members of the national smaller ones would be. Therefore, we could choose whether to stay only for five or to increase that by three. And as for the current legislative solution on voting in the 12th constituency, I will call it an apartheid solution here because people who come to the polling post are asked for a national statement, it is carried out, so a special record must be written and it is normal that at that time neither the vote is completely free nor secret because in certain election units 2/3 of the votes that have fallen are won in the polling stations where one or two voters voted and you really get to the country level up to 300, but that vote is neither secret nor free. And that's why I'm gonna change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40934	Thank you very much. Next in line is Honorable Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40935	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As it was mentioned earlier, we are really discussing today, and at this time we are bringing one of the most important and most important acts in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament. This therefore requires seriousness and constructiveness in the approach. And not to repeat everything that has already been said about a large number of undeniable provisions, above all, that allow us to complete the process and negotiate for the entry into the European Union, which has been reached by a political consensus, I believe that we will also agree on these provisions, which in some details I would rather say technically different but that we will reach an agreement. Given the time at my disposal, I'll only look back here at two institutes. The first of these is the intervention in Article 31 of the existing Constitution, i.e. the difference in SDP proposals and partners of the HNS and IDS and the HDZ proposal, which seems to me in the same direction and is likely to reach an agreement in the end. But here I would like to elaborate that in the HDZ proposal, there is no statute of limitations set out by law in the process of conversion and privatisation and that the property acquired by these criminal acts will be taken away. Two possible questions are raised here, and that is whether the Constitution includes provisions on non-depreciation then and those other crimes which today do not become obsolete under international law, and then it would be a logic for them to all be listed in the Constitution and whether the Constitution guarantees non-depreciation and confiscation of property benefit perhaps for other serious criminal offences. As regards the SDP proposal, it opens something that no one has mentioned today in the debate, which is in paragraph 2 of the exception to the existing Articles 31 and 89. The Constitution, in a way that introduces an exception, therefore, to the general legal principle of democratic systems, which is "zeroum crime son of a zero point son of a position" or that no one can be held accountable for an act which, at the time of initiation, has not been established by law or international law as a criminal offence or sanctioned by a penalty which was not prescribed by law at the time of its entry into force. It also suspends the general institute of the ban on retroactivity in relation to what is said in the proposal for actions which, according to the general principles of the right recognised by civilised peoples, constitute a criminal offence. Perhaps we should get an additional draft of the promoters to see what they are, how we will establish civilized peoples, who are peoples civilized, who are not, how they have found it and where these crimes are because I say the general democratic principle is the "zeroum crime son of a zero point son of a leg". Furthermore, paragraph 3 introduces a constitutional provision through the SDP, HNS and IDS proposal on non-depreciation for those offences which do not go out of line with international law and criminal offences of abuse of positions and powers which have provided the illegal property benefit of large scales and at a certain time, so in the time of the Homeland War, peaceful reintegration, war conditions, direct threat to the integrity of the Republic of Croatia, major natural disasters. So "wario" here is "temporary crime", so the proposal says of the crimes but in a certain period of time, unlike the HDZ proposal that it "warned" the type of crime. In paragraph 4, the SDP and HNS proposal states that the property benefit acquired is now being taken up by the defence term at the time of the defense of the Republic of Croatia, so now we do not know what is meant under the defence of the Republic of Croatia but certainly here I am wondering, and what will happen to the confiscation of unlawfully acquired property benefits for those crimes which, for example, were acquired at the time of the threat, at the time of the weather accidents etc. where it would be immoral, too. So, the benefit acquired in those times whether to take or not, as suggested. If the intention was to take it, then it is not well-stimulated and I don't understand why it would be intended not to take it at that time acquired illegal benefit. Furthermore, the apparent disproportionate property benefit acquired by privatisation and conversion, so now we're only talking about privatisation and conversion in all times will be taxed. I believe that this provision will not achieve the declared goal represented both by the SDP and the HNS, and that is the principle of "or return or pay". Namely, this way will not be paid because each of us would gladly agree to get something bad and then just pay a tax. I'm the first one to agree to all of that. So it's not enough to tax, it's supposed to pay what's acquired disproportionately. I'll look back here on only one kind of acquired property. In the introduction, Professor Josipovic spoke of enormous amounts that were lost in non-trace conversion and I will look back here only on real estate and in good works in very attractive areas. A few years before the Law on Property and the Law on Land Books was amended, it was precisely the basis of the opinion of some professors from the Civil Law Department and some judges of the Supreme Court published on expert advice on the transfer of property property in land books that suggested the application of the Universal Succesion Institute, hence the converted legal entity in such a way as to consider it to be the owner of everything that was the predecessor, regardless of whether it was entered into the underlying capital, whether or not it was ever paid to the State for it, unless a state is bound by the law of the State to require payment. And here I want to say that it was missed by the State's Attorney's office and then later a proactive role and indeed a constitutional task to protect the state's property. Today, as owners of these properties in the good part, companies are registered and are just waiting for them to delay their trust in land books so that they can be calm and enjoy the full ownership of these properties and some are still at peace now given the Supreme Court's view that the delay does not apply if the traffic of social property took place before 97 when we changed the Property Act and other real rights. So, if we're already introducing exceptions to the general ban on retroactiveness, if we're to return illegally acquired profits, taxation won't be enough. This good should certainly not remain lost to the state as a common good, and those who have wrongly and immorally reached it has in all political options regardless of who is more gossiping about it because corruption, crime and immorality do not carry either party, political, racial, or sexual omens simply exist thieves, criminals and honest people. So, if we really don't want to be frustrated and not agree to the principle of "who's bailing, pitting" and I certainly believe that no one agrees, then this detail should certainly be filed more specifically and more precisely. And in the end, I just want to look back at another institute and that's what it is. Double right to vote. I'm asking the same question as Agent Lesar, what's changed? In the introduction, we heard from the proposing representatives that some have matured, so they're taking SDP's proposals, I'm asking maybe the SDP matured in 5 years, 6 but I'm asking myself a question the SDP has brought constitutional changes with coalition partners in power, these constitutional changes introduced the possibility of so-called. The double right to vote was then in the position of the parliamentary majority and, according to the SDP proposal representative, it does not need to be Tesla to understand what the constitutional creator wanted but should be the chairman of the Assembly Committee on the Constitution or the SDP legislation in order to interpret exactly what he said the founder did not want, and that is that the laws that elaborated this constitutional provision in fact fully demonstrate the will of the founder. Therefore, I see that something has obviously changed but I am surprised that this is in the SDP proposal that had the opportunity both in the Constitution and in the law to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40936	Thank you very much, Madam Representative. The following has been reported for the debate by a respected representative, Boris Šprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say a few words about the two amendments proposed in the Constitution, one concerning Article 7. The Constitution on our conduct as a country in relation to the defence forces and the other around general and special voting rights. About this first as well as my colleague Arsen can say and in the context of reducing the standards of political and democratic in these last 6 years, it is a pity that we have not decided to join NATO in the referendum because that we have succeeded that this current government and government under the leadership of the former prime minister has failed, which is to ensure the sure support of citizens and that we are not afraid to go to the referendum because today, not only today, but also tomorrow, we have a situation like the Czech Republic and Slovenia that behind representative democracy is also a direct democracy, which is a people. That's what I personally regret, we proposed it in our pre-election programme in 2007, but this government obviously failed to say for what reasons. Now this standard we have, which is through representative democracy, we want to keep in that same representative democracy, which is about this 2/3 needed in parliament to decide on the departure of our armed forces outside the country and the arrival of the armed forces of the Member States into the country. But not only is this standard, which is now of the 153 MPs at least 102 MPs, must decide to leave our forces outside, not 77, as the HDZ suggests. So, we want to keep that standard, but not only do we want to keep that standard but we also introduce an enhanced standard, which is the role of the President of the Republic, which in all situations relating to the engagement of our countries and the arrival of other countries as regards the defence forces in Croatia, so we introduce that the President of the Republic as the Supreme Military Commander gives prior consent. So other than what the Government is proposing, Parliament decides that the President of the Republic be a participant in this procedure with full responsibility as Supreme Military Commander. As far as these standards are concerned, I've got the last ones who are a little bit disruptive because I'm sorry, because it's a state matter, it's a matter of defense. It was strange to see the last few sessions of the Defence Committee that no one from the ruling coalition came to the session at a session on the state of our Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions. The minister came and there was no session, and it was even more interesting when no one from the ruling coalition came to the Defence Committee session when we had the government's proposal on the agenda to change the constitution. I was very surprised by that. I also recently informed the president of the HDZ and the prime minister, and I hope that this very important state matter will not continue through the work of the Defence Committee. And then it was very interesting at a session where there was a quorum, so they came from the ruling coalition that we had a very difficult vote of five four, but we managed to reach a conclusion that the defence minister informed the board at least every three months of the state of our defence preparations in total and outside hired. Because it is normal and logical that apart from the information received by the Croatian Parliament once a year, and yet through the Defence Committee as the working body of the Croatian Parliament, he will not only be familiar, but also be able to act when he is so familiar. That's one thing. Second, general and special voting rights. And in 2003, because it was a credible interpretation in the tenth month of 2003. It was a credible interpretation of Article 15. Law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament as well as today when the same regulations are in force. Ms. Lovrin is not here, but I wanted to draw her attention to what she last said but not only her, but also Mr. Seks vice president of the Croatian Parliament by accusing the coalition in some way that she did not support the proposal for authentic interpretation and the way in which I would not say twice the right to vote but a general and particularly voting law. The SDP in that coalition, it is a public secret, and I will now publicly say it was very much for the application of general and special voting rights but also for coalition partners in particular, the HSS disagreed. For example, the HNS was for this proposal and it was very much for that proposal. But now I'm going to tell you one piece of information, one fact that I'm witnessing as a signator of that letter as far as the profession is concerned. So, the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a memo sent to the Government on 15 October 2003 in support of what I said earlier that the SDP was not against it, however. In conclusion, it says that I am not now reading to you the whole letter: "As general and special electoral rights are not excluded, while respecting the fact that the above provisions are given right to members of the national minority" means the provisions of the Constitution, the Law on Elections and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Members of National Minorities. So, "respecting the fact that the above-mentioned provisions were given the right to members of national minorities to choose their representatives according to the opinion of this office unanimously all ten advisers" who were working at that office at the time were because we had a plenary meeting. Therefore, the opinion of the national minority offices has the right to elect representatives on the basis of both general and special voting rights. Here it is for the historical truth of the last six years that the Office of the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia wrote to the Government, and I am proud to have signed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40938	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The replica was reported by respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So only an esteemed colleague replicated in part of his debate what he said lastly in relation to the opinion of the Office for the Legislatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which may be such content, I suppose it is in relation to the decision of the Croatian Parliament. So this is about Parliament's decision of October 2003, where the diametrically opposite opinion, an opinion in the end line of the profession. And why am I talking about professions? Because that opinion, i.e. the decision and the reasoning of that decision, was given on the proposal of the Committee on Lawfulness when someone else was a parliamentary majority with the agreement of the Committee on the Constitution. Therefore, you quote the opinion of the Croatian Government's Legislative Office in relation to the decision of the Croatian Parliament that I have had in front of me since October 2003, where the diametrically contradictory and reasoned views of all this which you have now said about this constitutional and legal institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40940	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica will be given by representative Boris Shprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40941	My colleague Tomljanović, I understood what you said. And you are when you only look superficially at the right. However, I have said this in the context of a proposal to amend the Constitution, which the SDP is now proposing, and I have cited this as an expert argument. I repeat, all 10 counselors at the Legislative Office have agreed to this opinion, which I have specifically signed. I didn't say you were wrong about this, so this is what I'm saying. I'm just saying that that's when the waist thought so. And the waist shouldn't be underestimated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40942	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40943	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The accession to membership in the European Union, in addition to the comprehensive adaptation of the entire legal, economic and administrative system of the Republic of Croatia, includes, in particular, adequate reforms in the fundamental functions and responsibilities of certain national authorities and institutions, as well as the transfer of certain constitutional powers to the institutions of the European Union, the direct legal effect and application of the law of the European Union, and the guarantee of certain rights to citizens of the European Union in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. All of this assumes the need to establish a constitutional and legal basis for accession to the European Union. The amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia resulting from this proposal concern two groups of issues, namely constitutional issues arising from certain chapters of negotiations with the European Union such as economic and monetary policy, justice and fundamental rights, justice, freedom and security, and financial supervision and constitutional issues of the so-called horizontal nature which are not directly related to individual negotiating chapters, but reflect on the modalities of the accession and functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, which relate to the constitutional basis for the accession of the European Union, the referendum on membership, the transfer of systemic powers and participation in the institutions of the European Union, the issue of legal force of direct effect, as well as the application of European Union law in the Croatian legal order, the regulation of relations between legislative, executive and judicial authorities in the conditions of membership, and the position of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia and the provision of their rights. The draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia can, as we have already heard, be classified into three groups. The first group shall contain amendments and additions to the existing constitutional provisions relating to the addition of the original basis of the Constitution by including all national minorities, the role and conduct of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and the decision on the crossing and operation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia through the border, as well as the crossing of the border and the entry into the Republic of Croatia, the Armed Forces of the Allies or the activities within its borders, in accordance with the international agreements, require a decision by the Assembly, which shall be made by the two-thirds majority of all representatives and proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia, except in the case of cross-border exercise and training in the framework of international organisations which the Republic of Croatia has joined or access on the basis of international contracts and in order to provide humanitarian assistance where a decision is required by the Government, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the application of the so-called so-called Regulation shall be ensured. a European arrest warrant, i.e. mutual recognition of decisions taken by the judicial authorities of one Member State under the legal system of another Member State, and only where a decision on extradition or surrender is to be made in accordance with the international contract or legal order of the European Union. Obligations are required to ensure that members of national minorities, in addition to the general electoral law, have a special right to choose their representatives in the Croatian Parliament. When voting in the elections in the Republic of Croatia, all Croatian citizens have the right to vote, regardless of their place of residence, however, this right is only in the election seats in the Republic of Croatia. It is emphasized by the full right of independence and independence of the Croatian National Bank. The obligation and freeness of education to acquire the first term is introduced. The obligation to adopt a state budget is prescribed by a majority vote of all MPs. The constitutional principle of independence of the judicial authority is stressed by strengthening the constitutional position, independence and independence of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council, in particular by strengthening the constitutionality and judicial and state-level responsibilities, the expertise of judges and deputy state lawyers. The level of decision to elect judges of the Constitutional Court to the two-thirds majority of all MPs is raised, allowing citizens of the European Union to be entitled to local and regional (regional) self-government in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the law and acquis of the European Union, and when deciding on the accession of amendments to the Constitution and laying down draft amendments to the Constitution, instead of the majority of the votes of all MPs, the two-thirds majority of all MPs are determined. The second group contains additions to the constitutional text of the new provisions concerning the definition of public records in the Constitution, the introduction of an institute of non-depreciation of the criminal part of genocide, aggressive war and war crimes, crimes against humanity, crimes committed by the exploitation or abuse of powers which were committed during the Homeland War... the state of war and the direct threat and independence and territorial integrity of the state or major natural disasters, the unlawful property benefit obtained in the process of conversion and privatisation or business related to it, as well as the other criminal offence which does not become obsolete under international law, taking away the illegal property benefit resulting from the process of conversion and privatisation, and the abuse of powers during the defence of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the taxation of extra profits, and ensuring independence and independence of the State Audit Office as the most audit institution in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third Group of Amendments refers to the introduction of a new Special Head of the Constitution called the European Union within which specific membership issues are regulated in the European Union such as the legal basis of membership and the transfer of constitutional powers necessary for the exercise of rights and the fulfilment of obligations assumed by membership, participation in the institutions of the European Union, the application of so-called ‘EU’. The direct effect of European Union law, given that European Union law is part of the national legal order and courts are obliged to judge and apply it, so that, if the national law norm is contrary to the law of the European Union, the national court must exempt from the application of the national legal norm and directly apply the law of the European Union as well as the national authorities, the units of local and regional (regional) self-government bodies, and the legal person with public authority, and the issues of the rights of citizens of the European Union. Namely, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are citizens of the European Union and enjoy the rights guaranteed by the legal order of the European Union, in particular the freedom to move and reside in the fields of all Member States, the active and passive voting rights in elections for the European Parliament and local elections in another Member State, in accordance with the regulations of that Member State, the right to diplomatic and consular protection of any Member State as well as in a third country where the Republic of Croatia is not diplomatically present, the right to submit petitions to the European Parliament, the right to address the institutions and advisory bodies of the European Union in the Croatian language, as well as in all official languages of the European Union, and to receive a reply in the same language. Those rights shall be exercised in accordance with the conditions and limits of the prescribed contracts on which the European Union is based, and on the measures adopted on the basis of those Treaties. Having in mind the need to complete accession negotiations by providing an appropriate constitutional basis for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, as well as the achievement of membership and the effective functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, I support the Proposal for a Decision on Accession of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Proposal for a Draft Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the exception of Articles 5 and 8 of the proposed proposal, and I expect that this Proposal for a Amendment of the Constitution as well as a recent Proposal for a Amendment to the Constitution submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia following the public debate, discussions on the working group of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System will allow the plenary session of this Assembly to be crystallised and accepted by the most qualitative solutions of the amendments to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40944	I thank you, Mr. Representative. The following is the individual debater Ivan Bagaric reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40945	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I adhere to all those colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs who spoke affirmatively about that part of the constitutional changes that will guarantee and allow Croatia a place in the European Union the next day. It is very important to mention when we talk about this item of the agenda today that we are sitting in a Parliament where there is no dispute on this issue, so there is no one here who thinks differently. Therefore, there is not one political party nor any MP has stated so far that he has opposed the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, therefore all that seems to be with this goal to enable, I would say a simple but democratic statement, should be supported and supported and not seen in it the possibility of any other political and political calculation. Thus, as a representative who is coming, who was actually elected to the Croatian Parliament in the 11th constituency, would refer more to the part relating to the right to vote by Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia in general, as well as to the referendum in the amendments to this Constitution itself, and with this purpose as mentioned. Just as I said there is no political party here in Parliament, no representative who has a different position than supporting Croatia's entry into a circle of European developed countries, I am also inclined to establish here, I would say and testify, that there is no one more interested or even the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in Croatia than those outside the Republic of Croatia for Croatia's entry into the EU. Why? And because a number of them live in the European Union and live for years and earns their bread and was forced to leave Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries, I am talking about Croats, in the world, in the free world at that time in Europe and continue to earn bread and actually survive. They know best what is good there, and they also know what is not good and respect Croatia's decision to go to the EU. The second part of them wants to simply see Croatia where Croatia wants to be seen. So these include Croats, for example, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are primarily interested in seeing Croatia in the EU. Because that's what Croatia wants first of all, everything Croatia wants and Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina absolutely support. Therefore, it is unequivocal and should not be politicised and asked whether or not we are going to approach this matter in a referendum and perhaps question the choice, in this case, of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina not only strongly support Croatia on their way to the EU but also support it for Bosnia and Herzegovina's sake because they know if Croatia is in the European Union tomorrow will be Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is understood that life in the EU is at a higher level, higher standards and better living, then it is understood that Bosnia and Herzegovina will live better and in any case Bosnia and Herzegovina is Croatian, I would say a Croatian priority in the context of Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into the EU. There are also Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who are not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also in other countries that are not presently in the EU as well. and Croats in Serbia, Vojvodina primarily, so in Montenegro, Macedonia etc. and they want to see Croatia in the European Union for the reasons of all these that I have said, but also for reasons because they also want to see their own country in the European Union. Therefore, this is unequivocal and it would be good for us to really not conduct political debates and not bring the issue, therefore the right to see Croatia in the EU and to want to ensure Croatia's most effective way of joining the EU with the issue of parliamentary and presidential elections. This morning's colleague Vesna Pusic, so Mrs Pusic, on behalf of the HNS club and one of the signatories, or those who encourage these changes in this way we are talking about today, argued: "It is impossible to separate the issue of the referendum, the statement in a referendum from parliamentary and presidential elections." When I tried to explain to her, or answer that claim she unfortunately had no patience to listen to what I had to say and I now have to say it here for the public, but also for you and for us here and for her. There is an International Institute for Democracy and Election Assistance. So, the International Institution that systematically follows this issue in all countries and has processed 214 countries. In these 115, various types of statements concerning parliamentary, presidential elections and referendums are presented. So, among other things, we have a map published here, we have a published table actually of those countries that allowed in their space, legalized in their space only parliamentary elections, so in the sense that they allowed their citizens outside the country to vote for Parliament. So that's 31. These include, for example, Australia and the Czech Republic, etc. There are countries that allowed and legalized their citizens to participate outside the country, outside the country, in the presidential elections, there are 14 of them. One of them is here, say Venezuela, Brazil, etc. There are 20 countries that have passed both elections and other elections, so both parliamentary and presidential. Among them are Argentina and Bulgaria, Indonesia and Israel, so 20 such countries exist. There are 11 countries that have allowed, which have legalized all three elements of the plea outside their territory for their citizens. So, for both parliamentary and presidential elections, and for the referendum. One of them is, say, Austria, Colombia, Moldova, etc. Therefore, there is no saying that exactly what Mrs Pusic said is not there, nor is she known in the world as a model by whom, if you have organised, I don't know, parliamentary or presidential elections without allowing a statement for the referendum. So different countries approach it differently and in a certain way relate in line with what they think is their interest. Why, when I say "interest," why are we here in advance, we haven't finished discussing the matter of the referendum, so we're having a debate. We had a proposal from the government, we have this proposal, there is a debate going on and there is no point in this debate at all. But here I dare here in front of all Croats outside Croatia to tell the following and take responsibility for myself. If it happens, and indeed it is impossible for Croats outside Croatia to hold a space outside the Croatian vote in the referendum, in the referendum on this matter, that it will not be the slightest insult for Croats outside Croatia, if the reason I say it is, and it is to ensure as much flow as possible, to ensure the conditionally said safe passage of the referendum. Because you cannot secure the same flow, the same number of people who will vote in parliamentary elections and referendums outside the Republic of Croatia where you can not vote in every street, and there you have consular and diplomatic representations where people have to travel and lose in line for two hours to vote and give their vote. So that's why there's a response to everything there can be from the total number of eligible voters' lists 30%. Now let's let them vote for. Well, my people are up to us all to be interested in here. I welcome the announcement and the left side of the assembly that no longer asks this as a matter of reluctance and which is in a certain way fighting for the votes of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I think it's very important. I'd like to conclude because I see that I'm at the very end and I'm concluding my exposure with the next finding. I refuse here, I refuse, I reject, I disagree with my colleague Cain's findings, who said this morning that Croatia is the cleanest state in which ethnically still remains, on an ethnic basis, people must not even plead. There is no responsible claim, so I think I share the opinion of all of you, that almost there is no country in the world, and in Europe it is certain that it has guaranteed its minorities greater rights than Croatia. It is also that Law on the Rights of National Minorities in Croatia, that is also the choice in the parliament of the Republic of Croatia of direct representatives of the same national minority and that is the life that our national minorities in Croatia live and that is proud of. And I certainly welcome these issues that have been raised on the issue of the rights of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who unfortunately have much less to allow and less free than what national minorities in Croatia have. Therefore, at this time I am calling really for both the left and the right on these issues there must be no difference. We can discuss, we can discuss in a certain way, but in no way can the issue of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia again be a political issue in this House, and a question of discord rather than a question of unification and joint conclusions to the benefit of these Croats outside of Croatia and Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40946	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have a replica. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar has signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40947	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of yours today's debate reminded me to say something I've wanted to warn you for a long time, but not just you. It is customary when we talk about citizens of the Republic of Croatia without residence in the Republic of Croatia, which we often call diaspora, to talk about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, about Croats in other countries, about Croats outside the Croatian state. I would like to remind you that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia without residence in the Republic of Croatia are not only Croats, but that they can be members of other peoples. And by insisting that only the Croats are in the diaspora, we create the wrong perception, the wrong picture. They can be Serbs, they can be Italians, they can be Muslims, so they're linked even primarily to those countries that recognise double citizenship as well as Croatia. So we're talking about Croatian citizens outside Croatia. I think it's terribly important. And two. In the diaspora vote, let's clear up that dilemma as well. The right to vote is about citizenship. Anyone who acquires citizenship has the right to vote. That's not controversial. But the one where you and I are different is the next. So, I do not dispute the right to vote diaspora, but I am doubtfully pre-reserved 14 seats in the Croatian Parliament for citizens outside Croatia. It's two different things to get along better. 14 yes. Theoretically 14, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40948	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40949	I'd like to answer Mr. Lesar the following way. So I agree with you. I'm here to show you later on, I really made that little parchment. But I didn't have time to show it that way. But when I was talking about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, I was talking about the so-called political Croats or citizens as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because I did not want to simply share them. So, does anyone feel like a Bosniak, does anyone not know a Serb who lives and has Croatian citizenship, too? But the truth is, most of them are Croats. That's the basis. On the other hand, I'll tell you openly. I met some Bosniaks in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have Croatian citizenship and when I said, I as a Croat in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you as well. Then he told me, don't make a difference. You don't know what I am or how I feel. So don't even open the subject. Although she is, this is an entirely legitimate question. On the other hand, this is when you say how many seats are guaranteed in the Parliament. Well, it's guaranteed just as much as in every constituency unit. However, there is not a single representative sitting here anymore in front of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who received fewer votes than those of the Croats elected in Croatia. So that's why we're just sitting this class 5 because there are no more votes equivalent to the number of votes that you needed to get. So you and I got the same number of votes. And in that we are not at all privileged. And I think that's actually what I can say even if it's good, that it's not another dispute in the Parliament, but that it's actually a reason to think together, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40950	Thank you very much. We have the next individual debate. Dear Representative Dubravka Shuica, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40951	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wanted to make a small contribution to this debate. I agree with all those who have said this morning and all day today that the Constitution is not brought in for this or that occasion, but that the Constitution is brought in neither to answer to any foreigner nor only to one nation, but to be equal to all, and that is what we are going from. However, the fact is that we have found ourselves in a situation where the Constitution must be changed for several reasons. We've already said the basic reason is to close the chapter on legal property. The second reason we mentioned these days, we should respond to the request for changes that ensure the proper functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. And the third reason that we're talking about the most here is by including different requirements that have emerged to improve the entire text of our Constitution a little bit. We're talking a little bit about those situations that we agree on, so for example, about minorities where we've only had two minorities represented so far. We agreed that all 23 minorities would be included in the preamble of the Croatian Constitution, which is one big step, perhaps we are not so aware of it, compared to what has been so far. I also believe that we will agree on this education and the question that education is, of course, free of charge until the first call, I believe that this will bring our views into line. It also wants to be punished, that there is no obsolescence over crimes in the process of conversion and privatisation and criminal persecution for such acts. However, we may have a slightly different view of what Mrs. Lovrin was talking about where we want each other to do so but, of course, for those acts that the law existed at the time of the misdeed or the work. We're also different in the section relating to the armed forces. We will see that there will be further adjustments to the talks on the two-thirds majority of the assembly or the ordinary majority that we are talking about. So, what is to conclude is that a consensus has been reached on the changes but that there are issues that we do not agree on but I believe that we will also agree on, and certainly, that the President of the Assembly Committee on the Constitution has been reached in the short-term debate that called for all the law schools and everything, the Faculty of Political Sciences, the Faculty of Philosophy in the Republic of Croatia and all the institutions interested in this issue to get involved in the public debate, I believe that it will contribute to these differences that exist between the proposals of the Government of Croatia and between the proposals submitted by 52 MPs to agree. The same is true of what counterpart Bauk said that this is the first time that the Constitution is adopted and that there is no majority of two-thirds without the participation of the opposition, so it is certain that a higher level of agreement must be reached whether we want to or not. So the question of double-rights that we're talking about most today is really conditionalally questionable. The fact is that a citizen voter can vote one time and the fact is that a single right to vote exists and that around a double number should indeed include both the profession and the general public. But what is good is that there is a will to include the waist and a consensus has already been reached about it. We are taking a test in front of our citizens this time and not just us, but our political parties that we heard here this morning that they are also a constitutional category, so political parties are a constitutional category. We really care about passing this test in front of our citizens. I believe that there has never been a higher degree of consent on the adoption of such an important or most important document as there is right now and I believe that we will agree on both the armed forces and the double right of vote. Someone was saying that we all talk too much about elections as if elections were the most important, but the fact is that both sides mention this electoral right the most. This topic has been the most represented in this discussion since this morning because yet the elections were the highest instance of democracy and all of us were indirect, were direct but the fact that this issue is the most rounding issue. In that sense, I would like to say that I am of course in favour of further debate on this proposal and I believe that there will be more debates, and public debates in this Croatian Parliament and I seek to reach a real consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40952	Thank you very much, ma'am. The next is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40953	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. What to say at the moment when to bring the i.e. When are we going to change the Constitution? So this is one category that must happen this time with the consensus of the strongest opposition parties and the opposition club with the ruling ones. So for the first time, it won't be possible to do it in some way without including the opposition inside, and that's why it's important to bring a consensus and that those things that we really agree should be incorporated into the Constitution. The first Croatian Constitution time, conditions, general environment, the situation in which it was adopted was the Constitution that was passed quite quickly and which as such was missing so that it was repaired in 97, 2000 and 2001. I will remind you that in the United States itself, the Constitution was passed in 1787, so long ago and that the last amendments to that constitution were in 92, 27 amendments. Consensus is one thing that must be achieved there, but the amendments to the Constitution need to be made quickly but in a way that includes the widest public because of such an important document that depends on the laws, on which many legal consequences depend, on which many decisions will affect the lives of citizens of all the connected and those who live and work and in some way their lives are based here in Croatia, is that these discussions should definitely involve the general public because without the general public we cannot get a full and quality picture of this business that we are doing. And therefore, the debate must, according to that proposal that we advocate and the proposal that the public advocates, lasts at least 3 months and should include as many people as possible in order for this process to be carried out in sufficient quality so that with these changes, the Constitution can benefit later than having objects of stumbling at certain points. An important provision of the Constitution, proposed by the SDP after two years, related to the non-deprecated privatisation and conversion of crime in this way de facto and adopted by the ruling party, the ruling coalition however you will bring it. By providing us with his proposal, he also speaks enough of the fact that there will be no dispute on this matter, that there will be consensus. But what the national consensus should also be based on is, in addition, not only the right to vote, but many important things. And the two most important things that have already been repeated from this club have been citizenship. So, voting law. Election right to vote and a referendum on the European Union, but the electoral right of the citizens of Croatia for the Croatian Parliament, for the Croatian Parliament which decides on the laws that apply to them. Because this is what we also advocate that those people affected by Croatian laws have the right to choose what the Parliament will look like, what the representative body that decides on the laws that apply to them will look like. And that's the basic point of the story why our proposal is also in this direction that these two things should not be shared, but rather put them in the same track, in the same car as would be said because it's extremely important that we don't have double criteria. It means that there is no figurines in the pocket, that it is meant for citizenship to be elected in the same way as a referendum for entry into the European Union and representatives of the Croatian Parliament as the main representative body of people who decide which laws will be applied to them. The most important thing, and I now have to make an example out of the practice of the European Union. Here's the thing. A very concrete document called Common Agricultural Policy or the popular CAP is a European Union document, meaning the European Union's policy to which 40% of the European Union's budget is going and related to agricultural incentives. Those incentives come from two funds. One is a direct aid fund, and the other is a support fund for rural development. 55 billion euros is leaving for agriculture incentives at European Union level. At its domestic level, the national states themselves contribute to support without these 55 billion euros with 26 billion euros. That means Croatia now has support in agriculture of some 3 billion euros. This means that if we enter this status of these domestic aids and tie them to 26 billion euros we will greatly increase that average since it is a small country. But what I'm trying to say is that 40% of the European Union's budget is spent on agriculture, but not in a way that is brought from year to year, but in a way that brings a seven-year plan. And Common Agricultural Policy is a seven-year investment plan in agriculture. And that is why it is also important to put this budget provision into place in the Constitution, i.e. on budgeting. Because, in fact, without a serious long-term analysis, there is no long-term sustainable development. The discretionary decisions contained in certain acts through the state budget, through the means available, through subsidies, which relate precisely to the discretionary decisions of the ministries themselves to grant certain amounts of support to a particular portfolio, to a particular sector, to a particular commercial company, which would be the most recent form of fiscal support, i.e. the most recent form of support that a country can have. Today, a much more sophisticated method of encouraging all different things from agriculture is present throughout Europe and direct assistance from the budget is something to be abandoned. It's a model that's leaving. When I'm talking about it, I think it's important to mention then that it's just the adoption of a budget as a constitutional category with a timetable of one of the most important things that wouldn't happen to us that what we'd say in three or four years is a single set that's in power of something expensive, economics, creation, and that again in the next period, some other set of things that would be difficult to create and collected simply spend very quickly, and we end up in a situation that we don't have to service elemental obligations. Unfortunately, we're in one of those situations today. Also, in this sense, the nomotechnical definition is also this provision around the governor. I think it's worth mentioning. There are different European practices when it comes to the mention of governors in the Constitution. However, the fact is that the governor bears the highest responsibility for the country's macroeconomic stability, for a low level of inflation or for not oscillating, i.e. for high volatility prices. The Governor bears great responsibility not only for the banking sector because he is an operation, so he is the blood flow of the entire economic sector, the financial sector, but also for the economic sector as a whole, and therefore the Governor's person is key to some healthy functioning of the country and that is why the governor, if the Constitution thus provides more unambiguously for a certain specific determination, such as the separation of the governor, such as the separation of the public records, such as the separation of the Chief State Auditor, is definitely in that story and the Governor's place. The Constitution does not have to be such, there are different European practices. It can be less ensnared, less specific, and yet on the other hand it can also be in certain specificities and more defined. However, what should not be should not be an obstacle or an obstacle to sound decision - making, common sense, and in some way the normal functioning of the country. If there's one thing in this case that we're talking about, and we're talking about the state's chief auditor, then it definitely deserves to be another. Here's my contribution to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40954	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Next in line is a respected representative, Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40955	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It is necessary, and in order to close the chapter of the legal gain of insurance, to access the relevant constitutional and legal basis of the Republic of Croatia's accession to the European Union, the mode of accession and the effective functioning of Croatia in the European Union, to the amendments to the Constitution. In addition to these issues stemming from negotiations with the European Union, important issues that we can set in the third group are complemented by the original foundations of the Constitution. During this morning’s debate, or debate today, we have heard several times that a high degree of consent has actually been achieved. Of course, it is not to be repudiated once again, on the draft amendments to the Constitution proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the amendments proposed by the Constitution proposed by a group of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, on issues relating to the closure of chapters in accession negotiations with the European Union and the modalities as well as the functioning of Croatia in the European Union. But I must say here that Mr. Bagarić, the respected representative, said very nicely that there is no more anyone who would politicise on this very important document for the reason why we all want to see Croatia in this broad family, in the European Union. Of course, the government is ready for dialogue, given that the Constitution is a fundamental document for all citizens and citizens in Croatia, guaranteeing safety and leading to this high degree of consent. The differences regarding the role of governor of the Croatian National Bank, we have also heard, participation in the institutions of the European Union and the application of EU law in the legal order of Croatia, as well as some minor differences in proposals on the independence of the judicial authority, are more than certain that the most optimal solutions will be reached in democratic dialogue. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system supported the change in the original basis of the Constitution proposed by the Government for the inclusion of all national minorities who choose their representatives in the Croatian Parliament. There are also different proposals that need to be agreed on on the provisions on the role and accession of the Armed Forces, the obligations and the freeness of education to the stage of the first call, as well as the inclusion of public records as a public service of constitutional importance, the election of judges of the Constitutional Court and the adoption of a state budget, we have also heard how important it is, in fact, important this segment of life. The change of the Constitution in the non-depreciation of criminal acts in conversion and privatisation ensures not only the confiscation of profits achieved, but also the very important dimension of which we believe and point out daily, and in this dimension is also an important responsibility for the crimes committed. A growing number of forms of public debate, including all universities of political science through legal, philosophical, economic colleges, but also other interested institutions can certainly contribute to creating preconditions for the best solutions. Here is a very short concept and my modest contribution to the debate on the decision to change the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40956	Thank you very much, ma'am. Now it's the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40957	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a few sentences and let me say my point of view on this subject. The Constitution is a single legal general act and contains some fundamental principles of state regulation. It is very important that the Constitution does not adopt progress, quickly, without a broad public debate and how it normally works in Croatia, especially when we make laws in this House, we know sometimes because of the pressure of time to pass laws that we change very quickly and correct. It's not good for the constitution to be brought under press release and under a statement that we must bring it by the end of the year, it must be... debated both among MPs, but so among all citizens and citizens of this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The constitution has so far been passed, or changed three times, this will be the fourth time, and Comparing the proposals that we have seen here today and from opposition MPs, but also from the government, and listening to Vice President Shakespeare when he says that 95% of things are harmonised and acceptable, I would point out that we have the meaning of 26 articles of change in this proposal. That would mean one to two that's controversial. So that means we're very close to the general consensus, I hope that one, two articles will be agreed soon. As to how much it is in the world, or how important this document is also an example of the American Constitution, what my colleague Bernardic was saying earlier. In almost 200 and a few years, he only complemented 27 amendments. So the fact is that the Croatian Constitution is still relatively young, perhaps some of the previous ones have been brought with certain shortcomings that we have seen, which need to be changed. A few things I would like to mention, and they are related to this proposal of the Constitution by a group of MPs, which I think is particularly important to say, are primarily about the non-depreciation of crime in conversion and privatisation, which is a terrible problem that is plagued by Croatian citizens, that certain people, individuals by principle and illegal and non-transparently acquired enormous material resources, while while fighting for Croatia while warring, they acquired enormous assets. It is done, and as far as it was at that point, I would say and used the moment for certain people to obtain great funds talking and reviewing carried out by the Office of State Audit and which determined that a huge amount of irregularities, capital that was not introduced at all into the conversion process, one part of the conversions that were made in a way that was not in accordance with the law at the time, which had allowed for a certain number of people, families in Croatia to sell the most valuable Croatian companies and, of course, when they found irregularities, it was not possible to sanction it because here as the data suggests, as 50% of the people were called to antiquity and they avoided prosecution. Unfortunately, the whole process and this is being introduced into the Constitution as long as 16, 17 years after the conversion to Croatia has been made, will prevent the punishment of many who have acted in this way because of the lack of documentation and many things that are very difficult to establish 15 years ago. What I am saying is that I am glad that the government also accepts this paper in the Constitution proposed by the SDP and the fact that for the first time in Croatia it is necessary for the consent and opposition to adopt the Constitution that it must have contributed to the situation. So it would be very likely to be a dispute over this provision if the opposition's votes were not needed to adopt a new constitution, or to supplement it and to amend some constitutional provisions. The right to vote and to define in this proposal the way elections are held comes from the fundamental setting that all Croatian citizens have the right to vote no matter where they live. So you with citizenship can choose, but the fact that you define that there are no special polling stations. So whoever has the right to vote can choose in those places that are on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in consular offices, or places outside the Republic of Croatia that work officely. I wouldn't talk much, but the fact that the biggest suspicion and non-transparentity of any election so far in Croatia, even those who follow, and these are presidential elections in a few months, is the fact that we don't have publicly available lists of voters and that in Croatia they will vote 4 million and 400 thousand people in the election for the president of the Republic of Croatia. Which is, watch out for that 850 thousand voters more than there were in the first election of the Presidential in '92. A year. Regardless of the negative trend in population growth, it means there are almost a million voters more than there were then. A clear question arises, and any election, unfortunately and with the will of the authorities, raises suspicion and intransparentity, and that is not good. These things should be changed, public lists of voters should be made available to make this most important process in every democracy clear and transparent. As for the amendments to the Constitution and the selection of Constitutional Judges, it is absolutely necessary to introduce a two-thirds majority for the election of Constitutional Judges, and in that case, I am sure that we would not have the examples that we have had in recent years, which is that certain judges pass through by the will of a party in power that does not have to have a two-thirds majority and then we have suggestions that some judges are elected to us, without satisfying even the basic conditions of being Constitutional Judges, and many who have acted I would say not according to the honorary role of the judge, are also elected and without any problem behaving that duty. Making a budget is the thing I absolutely want to point out in my debate. It is impossible for one such act that confirms every policy, each government at the end of the year to be passed only to the ordinary majority of present representatives. So, practically for existence, for the survival of the government is enough 40 or 38, 39 hands in the Parliament, and we think it should be changed absolutely. As for the role of the CNB and the State Audit, I do not think that too much should be said, in particular, the State Audit to which the role should be strengthened by entering the State Audit Status into the Constitution, but also by a new law where it would not be possible for the State Audit to establish a huge amount of non-transparentity in public procurement procedures, in the behaviour and spending of budget money, which the State Audit does every year and nothing happens. In a way that we give a stronger position to the State Audit to allow even directly that the State Audit can make applications, impose sanctions, I think many irregularities would be eliminated. In the end, I will say that I am pleased to say that this time, when the Constitution is adopted, a broad consensus will have to be reached. It means that some fundamental things will have to be agreed on by all relevant factors, and I hope that Croatian voters, i.e. Croatian citizens and citizens, will be able to discuss all these changes in public debate and that this will not be limited by the end of the year but will take as long as this debate is to be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40958	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is an incorrect assumption that the Constitutional Court has chosen someone who has not met even the minimum conditions. Despite your attempts to place the lie, it is an incorrect allegation, and as far as the majority of the budget is concerned, you should have consulted within the SDP club which has just brought it in his term of office when he was able to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40960	Thank you very much. This second part was not a correction to the incorrect allegations about most of the budgets, but now we are going towards the end of individual debates. I'm calling on the esteemed representative, Joseph Lek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So it should be said that the Constitution is the cornerstone of the legal order of a state, of a society, and the amendment of the Constitution and the amendment of the Constitution is the anti-cipulation of the construction of a legal system in the next few years. For more information, the Constitution cannot only be read through norm, but through principles and wholeness. If we read the Constitution only through norm we could often conclude that our country is unfair and unfair, but the Constitution as a whole when we read we can speak from the constitutional point of view that the Croatian state is well-organised. Unfortunately, these constitutional changes are affecting the essence of the current legal system, but also in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we have directed our debate into only two institutes and thus covered other important institutes concerning the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their rights and rights in the European Union, which is also very important and directly related to the position of citizens in that European Union. First, let me look back at two institutes. And not only at the institute, but what bothers me in this debate in this House. There are some colleagues and colleagues who begin their discussion like this. I am for equality of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And now the man thinks it's really going in principle. But then add, but not for everyone. Some might not be able to follow that principle, that principle. Some on the one hand say they can't all do it, some on the other. If citizenship is a legal bond, a legal bond, the legal link of a citizen with a state, which is by definition, it is also the basis for the acquisition of rights, both general and equal. This also determines the foundations when it comes to the rights of national minorities of Croatian citizens, it also determines the rights of all, regardless of the differences that are national or non-national when it comes to the exercise of electoral rights and other rights that are given out, read or followed. Therefore, through fundamental rights can't a citizen, a man of electoral active and passive law, solve some other issues, some other problems that are national or not national, whether they are organisational or national, but cannot be addressed through that vision. Namely, what am I saying? The issue of active and passive voting law must be settled in principle on the same legal framework and on the same legal basis for all forms of direct or representative democracy. And we can't argue here if we want to talk about principles and principles. And I wouldn't do anything about it anymore. Therefore, it is in principle necessary to resolve the right to vote, both additional and basic and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But I would say something now about other things, which aren't even solved here or I could say, in a shy way, solved. We have a request from the European Union for standardisation, let's say we make the Croatian National Bank autonomous, autonomous, which I agree with in principle. But we are neither in the European Union nor even less in the European Unitary Union. Does Croatia have to give up its policies when it comes to monetary policy and supporting the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia through monetary policy? One question. If it must, then we will do so on behalf of the higher interests and entry into the European Union and the European Monetary Community, immediately and now. Another thing I want to say, too. It is a very important issue in Article 141b, the government and Parliament's relationship on the issue of decision-making in the European Union. A very good study should be made of how the Government will represent the Republic of Croatia in the European Council. Will they receive instructions before or after the decision, so to subsequently verify, to continue to approve the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision in the Croatian Parliament? We didn't say a single word about it. When it comes to education, and I hope that this provision will be assisted by the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, constitutional changes, because it is very important to provide for deadlines, a time when constitutional provisions on the right to general education can be implemented and what that means. So, in other words, when we will pass a law defining the rights of citizens of the Republic of Croatia to education until the first term. The constitutional declaration itself will not help the citizens. It's very important to know. Something about independent bodies. Namely, we have now in action, in nature, in practice 4 types of government in the Republic of Croatia. One is legislative, the other is executive, and the third is a judicial power. Both colleagues and colleagues now appear in a form of government that we have not had so far, because we did not need to coordinate some relations within our society and within our country, with the standards of the European Union countries. They are independent, independent and regulatory or whatever they are called institutions. And here in the Croatian Parliament we get bill proposals where some institutions say that you can vote on these laws because they are in line with standards and Aquis communariare. So they tell us if we can and how long we can before we decide. We have not said a single word in the Constitution on the relations between these regulatory independent, independent institutions of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. Secondly, I would certainly put all these institutions in one chapter, such as the Croatian National Bank, the State Audit Office, the State Judicial Council, the State Election Commission, which must be completely independent and independent. The State Prosecutor's Office, the State Office of Statistics and the Public Attorney, all in one head have special powers and special rights. We haven't said a word here, and we have a serious change and addition to the Constitution. I just wanted to say, and that is not irrelevant when entering the European Union, we have not defined what is good in the general use of Croatian and what is in public use. This is very important for relations in the European Union and now we will bring the Law to water and protect water, it is an area that must be regulated by the Constitution at least in that sense what is public and what in general, what in public use. So we are going to change the Constitution because this is how we went just for the purpose of joining the European Union. It was at first and remains a fundamental objection to the way this Constitution was adopted. Instead of starting from the beginning in the Croatian Parliament, we agreed on the scope of the Constitution of the institutes that we wanted and then gave it to a public debate we went the other way. We have now come to return both of these proposals to the competent authority and then to change or negotiate the scope of the amendments to the Constitution, but we are now going to confuse it by making a decision to accept the process of amending and supplementing the Constitution in the scope that has now been found here in these two proposals. Unfortunately, it's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40962	Time's up. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. This led to the end of an individual debate. I'm asking the proposer's representatives if they want to take the final word? Dear Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40963	Thank you. Vice President, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, today's debate has shown how broad and important this is, how much, despite what was written a week ago and given in the procedure, and then besides this proposal that today was in the process of how many more questions and sub-questions have been opened. Here I can open one more example from Article 15 of the joint proposal, therefore, both the Government and ours, which speaks of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as the highest court to ensure the uniform application of the right and equality of all in its application. It used to be the equality of citizens. What does this provision really mean in light of the fact that we are entering the European Union and that every Croatian court in the process will be able to stop and seek the preliminary or preliminary opinion of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg? What is the role of the Supreme Court? Is this real or is it just more fiction and so on? I am glad that today, however, he discussed a number of MPs from the ranks of the proposings as well as from the ruling majority. After we sit again or at this time, we finally sit down and turn this proposal into a joint proposal that we will then submit to the Parliament for adoption and discussion, and to the adoption of the two-thirds majority it is clear that this is a procedure that cannot go overnight, quickly and without certain procedures and discussions. Since all this has been done under the pressure and imperative of the European Union and there is no negotiations with the European Union that, according to no amendments to the Constitution, it would not have been possible for us to approach the Constitution and that, finally, after months of blockade, we have unblocked negotiations with Slovenia, I have the need to mention a few more things on this occasion, and as far as our common goal is concerned, the objective of membership in the European Union. As we have unblocked the negotiations and, as Slovenia did after months of hard and unprincipled, in my opinion, deeply wrong and non-neighbored blockades unblocked those negotiations before Croatia is as we know the move to do something about it. I can't believe Slovenia blocked the negotiations without Croatia making a promise or saying it would, I just can't believe it. That's my impression. For example, let's say an arbitration agreement that has been negotiated for weeks, which is on the table and about which there are recommendations that Slovenia interprets in its own way, Slovenian Prime Minister Borut Pahor comes here on Monday, and Croatia has its interests. As the ruling majority rejected the SDP proposal ten days ago in this House to discuss this whole package of issues, it simply rejected it, rejected it for our surprise and dissatisfaction, so now again on an important agreement to decide on an arbitration which will be set by the Croatian border we are not talking about again. Now I'm going to tell you my anticipation, so predicting what's going to happen, so please, you can correct the wrong impression. So, the prime minister will sign an arbitration agreement, not paraphrasing, because under the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, he can formally and then submit it to this Parliament for ratification. The agreement will contain some provisions that are worse for Croatia than those of the first Rehn plan, but the philosophy will be there, please vote for it, it takes a two-thirds majority because it is an agreement which gives arbitration authority to decide on the Croatian border tomorrow. Unless you vote for it, you are unconditionally responsible for the blockade of Croatian negotiations. If the prime minister lacks courage at this time to share with us the responsibility for the content of this agreement which is still being kept secret and for which I predict us again will gather the final moment in the Banski dvori or in Visoje to tell us what its contents are and to nod our heads then I advise her that we have enough courage to talk about it now and that we do not consider the arbitration agreement to be the end of Croatia and death for Croatia, but this is not how foreign policy can be conducted. This Assembly will receive an arbitration agreement which we will have to adopt by a two-thirds majority to give someone there the right to decide on the Croatian border. It's not a matter of blood and soil, it's not a matter of passion, but it's a matter of responsibility and a state attitude. Ivica Racan took political responsibility for his initial agreement with Drnovšek. The agreement came to a foreign-political committee not at the end but at one stage, so it fell, so it never became an agreement but remained in the phase of a draft that had never been realised. So, anti-civilizing, I predict the prime minister will sign an agreement and face this Parliament with the imperative of its ratification. He better tell us sooner than later. But as I'm saying, it's my own antiquation, and I expect it to happen. And that is why, once again, if you do not have the courage or fear your party or the Croatian public that they will cut you down because there is something bad in this agreement, then also the Slovenian prime minister in his country for what he is willing to sign with Croatia threatens to vote for impeachment. It's a Slovenian view, for them it's a sacred thing. It's not a holy war for us, but it's an important thing. Let's go talk about it. The agreement is still in the drawer, it does not want to be shared with Croatia. That's a European question. Why do I insist on that at the end of this debate? Because these negotiations are unblocked on the basis of some promises that Croatia made. And now finally we're talking about constitutional changes when the negotiations are off-line, we haven't talked about it before. We could have, but we didn't. So these are all related things. If Croatia is not on the trail of the agreement reached because no one gives anything for nothing, then we will again be blocked from negotiations and no one will be satisfied with it. So take this as a warning, correct the wrong allegations and see you in a few months or a few weeks in a real debate on constitutional changes. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40964	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40965	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to correct my colleague, even if he spoke in such a form to avoid correction. But I'll fix it and say it's not true that the prime minister lacks courage. You see how well he smiles? It's simply not true, and Mr. fellow MP here made one assumption, and then he spoke of that assumption as if it were true. So all of what you've been saying this assumption of yours is incorrect. You've turned that assumption into the truth. That's not true. And it is not true that the Croatian government and Mrs. Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, made some promises to the Slovenians that they have unblocked the negotiations. If you had that knowledge, you could have told them here. You claim, and in the media, you claim that some promises have been made. I think you lack courage, because you know you'll have to raise your hand when the case comes to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40966	Thank you. Timeout for correcting an incorrect quote which cannot be regarded as a complete correction of an incorrect quote, because the denial of the quotation should be with arguments or counter arguments. It's not enough to say it's not true that the Prime Minister doesn't have the courage. You have to say why it's true that he has the courage. Okay. The next correction is an incorrect allegation from the respected representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thought the time of Nostradamus was long behind us, but here we obviously have modern Nostradamus with various antiquities. But the incorrect assumption is that the prime minister will sign something, and then that agreement she signed will come here to the Parliament for our debate, for ratification. The prime minister made it clear that before any signing, before any parade that she would come to the Croatian Parliament, that she would argue, that all parliamentary parties would be introduced in time and that we would discuss it. And secondly, nothing has been promised beyond what she wrote in a letter to the Swedish Presidency, or chair of the European Union. Therefore, I know that the time of various predictions is very popular in the late hours of the night, so I recommend these programs that deal with forecasts. But for politics, I think it's very important to tell the truth here in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40968	Thank you very much. With these amendments, I conclude the debate on the Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitution. And after this debate, there will be a parity working group that will then make a joint proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution. Thank you very much. We'll continue and finish today with two other points of the agenda. This is first - Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television Proposer: The Committee for Information, Information and Media has submitted this proposal on the basis of Article 18. The Law on Croatian Radio Television, and in conjunction with Article 118 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Law on the Functioning of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received a proposal for this act in boxes. The Proposer is the Information Committee. I'm asking the chairman of the board as a proposal would you like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, on 19 October 2005, the HRT Programme Council was appointed to the four-year term of office of Darinka Janjanin, Suzana Jasic, Zdenko Ljevak, Želimir Mesarić and Juraj Njavro. After the death of Jura Njavre on 19 December 2008, Zvonko Milas was appointed for the rest of the term of office. On 10 July 2009, Zdenko Ljevak was relieved on his own request, and on 17 October this year, the mandate of the other members of the Council was expired. In accordance with the law, the Information, Information and Media Committee launched an election procedure for five members of the Programme Council and issued a public invitation on 20 June this year. On 9 July, the Committee discussed the candidates' proposals, and on 13 July, all those who arrived within the deadline and who met the conditions and criteria laid down by law and by public invitation forwarded them to representatives' clubs for compliance. On 15 October, the Committee on Information, Information and Media at its 24th session, in accordance with the law of the Croatian Programme Council of the HRT, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the appointment of Dragan Crnogorac, Željemir Mesarić and Zvonko Milas on the proposal of the clubs of the majority, and Dr Damir Grubis and Sanja Modric on the proposal of clubs of the parliamentary minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40971	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. First, on behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Nenad Stazic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40972	Thank you very much. First of all, something about the way we choose. The Law on HRT has a very precise and well-ordered way of selecting members of the Programme Council in our court. A public call is being made, the candidates arrive, the Media Committee is considering them, respecting those who are legal, not making any other selection and sending it to representatives' clubs for compliance. What would that consent mean now? Consensus would mean that the parliamentary majority assumes responsibility and proposes in this case all five council members, that the parliamentary minority see whether these five proposals are acceptable to them and that this be a harmonised proposal. For those where there would be no match of course, the election continues in a way that one is elected from the parliamentary majority order and the other from the parliamentary minority order. In this case, the agreement procedure has not been implemented in this way, but we have actually come to one, we could call it a united proposal, in a way that the parliamentary majority has proposed three candidates, that the parliamentary minority has proposed two candidates. It's these five names that are right in front of us. Why should we consider the consent procedure more appropriate? Well, because then you might see if it's an example. The club of parliamentary majority acceptable member proposed by the Croatian Journalist Society. Now the parliamentary majority has not proposed it. That's too bad. It is a pity that they did not exercise their right and did not take advantage of this legal opportunity to come up with a harmonised proposal. These five names enter the HRT Programme Council not quite at the happiest times, because the HRT situation is extremely bad. We debated here a few days ago about the Programme Council's report, and here we said that we believe that some programme moves question the definition of Croatian television as a public service, not state or party television. We also warned of a criminal application against the Director-General based on the find of an independent audit which found that the faked profit and loss account for 2008. Forging the balance is a felony. Instead of a loss of 68 million kuna, a profit of 133,000 kuna is shown. It's a serious crime. That's what Ant worked. We also warned that there was a mobbing on TV in the scene department. There he wants to get employees to buy goods past a public tender from the wife of one of the staff Sutlic brought there. So when she turned it down, she was now being punished, disciplined for some non-existent violations, 30% of the pay and the threat of termination. Instead of resolving such matters, rather than bringing the three objections here on behalf of the parliamentary club, the largest opposition parliamentary party in Dnevnik has appeared as the head director of the HRT, which is thus polymising. The "Dnevnik" did not show these three of our objections, but Vanja Sutlic was shown to pollomise publicly in "Dnevnik" with what was said here for the parliamentary speaker. The principal's privatizing the television house. In addition, in "Open" a day later, he poles up with his journalist Stankovic and interprets that the question he asked Kerum was primitive. Kerum's answer is not of interest to him, but he is interested in Stankovic's question. The director-in-chief of television cannot determine questions for journalists and can't polemize, come to television shows as he pleases. And now on the occasion of this latest affair, about alleged chauvinist statements by the principal, we hear his confession that the editor-in-chief of the information programme, Hlovarka Novak Srzic, offered to re-emerge in Dnevnik and to deal with these journalists there. Things seem to be getting out of hand on TV, and the HRT Program Council is gonna have some serious business. There are more and more demands, colleagues and colleagues, to call a session of the Assembly Media Committee and discuss the situation on HRT. Of course, we on the Media Committee cannot question what is true, whether what Sutlic claims or what four journalists claim is not our job. But the job of this Parliament is to make sure that public television, as an important institution in this country, is an important institution operating honestly, transparently, correctly, to be led in the right way and to have a programme that justifies its name public television. Accordingly, we express hope that the new members of the council will also have the strength to deal with those who find themselves there with the rest of the council, with the Director of the Council, the President of the Council, to try to fix this bad situation on television and to help us here as a Parliament and through the Media Committee, but also through this plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40973	Thank you, Mr. Representative. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I thought you'd react since it would be good if the Croatian Assembly really respected the presummation of innocence, so when it is said that someone has filed a criminal complaint, it does not mean that at the same time that a criminal offence has been proven. Perhaps my colleague Stazic was just writing that criminal report, then waving it to the Croatian public. But let's let the court check, or let the state institution check whether it was a fake balance sheet as he said it or not, but let's not talk here in a way that someone filed a criminal complaint and it's an automatic criminal offence. And that's what Nenad Stazic says, and that's the truth that's not even supposed to prove. What do we need the courts for? Which we need any state institution. Therefore, give at least a few basic principles to your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40975	Thank you very much. According to my assessment, the esteemed representative Stazic presented the facts of the existence of a criminal application, and beyond that, he did not further assess the outcome of that criminal application. It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club, and the respected representative Krunoslav Markovovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40976	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's HRT as probably the most influential medium is certainly interesting to politicians first of all, because they're trying clearly through it, we see it and now, is it trying to achieve some kind of influence, interest still. We are interested in the good functioning of Croatian Radio Television. Why? Because we're not just looking at ourselves, not looking at our pictures, or listening to our words, but really a program that's extremely watched by all of our residents and needs to be clearly concerned about quality. Here's my colleague Stazic says that the way you choose is good, here we haven't talked too much about the way you choose, but the fact is that despite this way of choosing exactly from your ranks there was a lot of dissatisfaction with the work of the Programme Council. We believe that the qualification of members of the Programme Council is good, and here I think we've chosen people who are certainly qualified and that they will try to keep public television, aware that they have to do whatever other televisions don't have to do. So there is a whole series of contents that Croatian radio television must do. HRT is in advantage because it has safe funding through the subscription, it has had years and quite an income from commercials, now normally something smaller. So, he cares about quality, he has to worry about the ratio of kind of emissions, so anyway, what we're interested in is productivity. It is often indicated that the Programme Council should also speak and inform a little more about it, the ratio of the number of employees and the productivity of television. It seems to me that productivity is significantly less than the possibility, so there are both quality people and a lot of employees who actually don't know what they're dealing with, but obviously it's much more interesting to buy some finished shows on the sides that can be very high-quality, they don't have to be quality, they have to hire their team there employees because they're finally and they're used to us for years and to the quality of their own production. A quality balance should also be reached here as regards parties in any case. When we criticize HRT to take care of one party, then we need to take a look at the ratio of the minute, so we'll see that the HDZ is here as minutely as possible in a significantly subordinated position. So, I think television is doing it, let's try and balance them as much as possible, but I can say that here's if it's a pleasure that we from HDZ are not satisfied. Here we also expect that the Programme Council will worry about having HRT cast yellow, sometimes there really are things that aren't for the level of television, what the system said- said something happened now let's go into detail. The fact that some of the papers that we're used to going through the system say they're recycling it in detail and then it turns out it's not true, that's what we expect of them, not television. It should also be warned, I think they know that there is a covert advertising. It's a greeting from Rovinj and things like that, so I think it should stop sometime. The income is income, namely we're a little bit interesting on the board we're complaining about television that she didn't collect enough money from commercials, and then they try, but the wrong way is, I guess they'd like to meet the board but, first of all, themselves, but I don't think that's supposed to be. We speak on television and talk about nepotism often, but there still needs to be a little care, no matter who it is. Often, children of famous artists are also artists. And now if they don't get a chance to show up anywhere else, then they show up here, I think we should still give them a chance. Namely, it's not the children's fault that before them were quality and famous come the artists' parents still think I shouldn't go so hard whose name is mentioned or the last name, first name, should appear at the moment "Ah that's his," so I think the Programme Council has taken a good stand there. I don't know to what extent the board should be dealing with criminal charges on television. So yesterday we watched, finally there's the State's Attorney's Office, there's all the other institutions let them deal with it, we're becoming more and more judges and not only to accuse but to convict immediately. It'd be great to punish more, we're late, that's '45, '46. Now it's going a little harder. According to this, I believe the director and his employees will clear all this up among them. There may be a conflict, but let's not make any accusations we read from the papers here. May one debate not be bad about all this together with them, but if they can't solve the internal affairs then let them first and foremost state the Programme Council that are finally and chosen to follow what's going on there, and then after their report, maybe even an extraordinary report if we ask for it, then maybe open up a debate while only on the basis of the media I don't think it's fair to them either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40977	I thank Mr. Representative. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40978	Thank you very much. A colleague Markovanovic incorrectly mentioned that with his debate, counterpart Stazic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, showed that politics wants to exert some influence on television. Absolutely an incorrect claim. First of all, a colleague, Stazic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, presented certain facts that are what they are and which no one can change. What we want is public television to be public television, and all the irregularities that have been going on unfortunately on TV for the last month, two days of I.D. And it can't be a desire for power over television, but for public television to finally become what it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40979	Thank you. The next is the club of HNS representatives and respected representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40980	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't hope the day would come when, at least in some conclusion, my colleague Markovanovic and I would agree, but it seems that day has come. Namely, everything has been said recently at the expense of the head of HRT and everything has been said lately at the expense of some Croatian journalists. As a Croatian Parliament, we have an obligation to protect the public interest and that is why we choose the HRT Programme Council which is then elected by the principal director, etc. Everything by the law we've brought here. However, the Parliament, of course, still has an obligation to protect the public interest. And what was said at the expense of the Croatian journalist HRT, at the expense of the chief director, are the accusations which they have in the basis of a world-wide view to saying deviation, which we as the Croatian Parliament cannot allow and cannot tolerate. Therefore, it is our interest, and our duty, that those we choose, and that is the HRT Programme Council, we ask that they report here on what is happening there. Whether it's an internal conspiracy or it's actually an unheard-of-value shift that none of us can accept. Today, since we choose four new members of that body, it is up to us to listen to them, or ask them to tell us what their insight into the situation is and what is actually happening. Because it's just as terrible and if any of it's true, then nothing is done, and if it's false, so it's let it just float around the public like this, and it's left to everyone to personally choose what they prefer or less like or who they trust or believe more or less. It's not just a matter of arguing and fighting, it's a matter of principle protecting a kind of world-wide consensus that I assume exists among us. In this sense, the HNS Club proposes one conclusion regarding this point, which would require that the HRT Programme Council until the next session of the Croatian Parliament, submits to this Assembly a report on the latest events on Croatian Radio-Television and on the objections that have been made public, in order to fulfil its duty, and the Council of the HRT is that in this sense we can call on us to report, in order to clarify one situation which, in the opinion of the HNS Club, on which side has proved to be truly true, is not something that we, as an institution chosen by the citizens of this country to protect the public interest, can only go through, regardless of which side one of the actual value of the offence has been committed. So, we're going to propose to all of you the conclusion that you're going to get on the bench, to invite the Programme Council to eat us at the next session of the Parliament about what actually happened, and I invite you to support this conclusion jointly, and thus try to help clear up a situation that we think is extremely worrying, regardless of whether it's a meal that's scary or a truth that would be even worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40981	Thank you very much. These discussions by the clubs are over. We have one application for an individual hearing. Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40982	This is a subject very specific and very Jana. It is the choice of members of the HRT Programme Council on how that each topic is related to HRT at the same time very attractive to many to discuss many things that are wrong there or they think that they are not okay and that, of course, as one of the key media institutions should certainly be the subject of the Parliament's interest. I didn't mean to discuss it, because I thought that the debates would only stick to the questions of the election of members of the Programme Council which was correctly carried out and I think I see that there was no topic about this other than the principle, and that is I think it would be good to have some attempts... of the majority and minorities agree on whether they have a joint proposal. Therefore, some might also be together, so they should not be going from one quota and others from another quota. But that's how it is now. It's a question of Parliament's maturity. Therefore, if the Parliament is not mature to act on better elements of the law, it is at least forced to act on the restrictive ones. Well, then you can't get too confused, so we have one proposal that's coherent and hopefully that's how it's going to go, because he's the logical choice of these clubs, so it would be logical to expect, independently of that, all the clubs to support everything. However, I'm talking to Mrs. Pusic about one, maybe I've heard something wrong, maybe I haven't graded it well, but for something that seems important to me to point out, to explain the idea for and for some particular conclusion. The HRT program council is our conclusion. Our conclusion is the autonomy of the HRT Programme Council to act in accordance, now as I say to the norms with the law and with everything that should be. We can't give as a council of tasks to the HRT Program Council. This does not come from the logic of the Programme Council, because the Programme Council is defined in one specific way in a way that will safeguard the autonomy of that media, and among other things, autonomy from both the Parliament and ideas that could be heard in the Assembly, which may one day be as you think, another day may be some others as others think. I think we should start by letting them sit there, there's a lot of problems. In the debates that have been heard and in the writings that have been heard, I can see some forms of campaign that I do not like, because I was a victim of similar campaigns myself. I don't know if they're right or not, but I'd beg and plead to remove political tensions from this subject, that we have a body that's legally regulated to conduct surveillance and assistance. When you say "supervisory" then you forget that this surveillance is in some way helping to achieve the function of autonomy there. And I'm not that it's burdensome with some special executive actions, which is in their legal description of their jobs, and I think it's best to keep it that way, and wait for the results to be seen on the very results of solving the situation on television, which is obviously now brought into a crisis after some time which worked again, or at least the ones who think that there should be some sort of a dramatic solution there right now. We don't have enough elements and I don't think the Programme Council should do the primary work but that's not our task to the Programme Council, but what's being derived from its legal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40983	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have two replicas. First respected representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vujic, I cannot agree with this view of yours. I know that you have a special relationship with this law and this institution because it's kind of a solution that you've designed and implemented, and it certainly improved the situation compared to what it was before. However, the programme council has already submitted various special reports here and in this case it is one situation that is simply present in the Croatian public in one way that is overcoming the issue of internal relations and regulating internal relations on HRT. As I said, no matter what is true in this case, and in this case, let the Programme Council enter into it and let it establish what really happened, but as the Supreme Institution that protects the public interest, which is Parliament, I think we have responsibility in this case, so when it comes to some internal things, get information and sort of be responsible for seeing what this is really about. If it's found to be a banal one, I mean not a banal but a very nasty one, but it's not a good one, but in any case, it's good to get rid of it that way. And if, however, it is found to be something else, then it is in my opinion that it is if anything of our responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40985	Thank you very much. The second replica is the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40986	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can say that I fully agree with Mr Vujic, and I am glad that he performed like this because for example, Mr Vujic probably disagrees with Mr Stazic's exposure and also with the exhibition of Mrs Pusic. If we keep calling the Program Council to give us a report here, then they're not free, then they're not autonomous. And on the pretext that we need to get information about what is going on in Parliament, politicizing Croatian radio-television is not necessary. This is the one I believe is the banal problem that has arisen, and now they'd want to make me a big problem. It just doesn't have to. And I thank Mr. Vujic who reacted like this and I think he's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40987	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40988	I didn't want to replicate either Mrs. Pusic or Mr. Zubovic, but I have to replicate the part where Mr. Zubovic knows who I was getting along with and who I didn't agree with. Please, I didn't mention anyone here, I spoke for myself and I spoke from the context of what I think I should and thank you for the compliments I don't need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40989	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40990	Proposal for a decision to appoint five members of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio-Television, is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint five members of the Croatian Radio-Television Programme Council. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 98 votes for, 1 abstention and 1 against a decision on the appointment of five members of the Croatian Radio-Television Programme Council as proposed by the Information, Information and Media Committee. The club of HNS representatives proposes to the Assembly to draw conclusions, which reads: "The HRT Programme Council is in charge to submit a report on the most recent events on Croatian television by the next session of the Croatian Parliament.". I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 33 votes in favour, two abstentions and 61 against. So that conclusion didn't go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40991	We're moving on to the last item of today's agenda. - Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the former and the appointment of a new member of the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency, Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government proposed these decisions on the basis of Article 7. Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Ms Ivana Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40992	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government shall, in accordance with Article 4(1) and (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, The law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency proposes a discharge of the members of the HANFA Board and the Assembly is therefore a body appointed and resolved by members. The printing error is in the very motion for a decision, it's about Mr. Ivica Letinić. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, the management member did not contribute to the quality and improvement of the Agency's work, but rather the opposite. And for these reasons, it is proposed that he be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40993	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur of the Finance Committee want to take his word? Dear Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament was held at the 42nd session held on 16 October 2009 in accordance with the provisions of Article 7(3). The law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency allowed a member of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency to be shown to Mr Ivica Letinić before making a resolution decision on the reasons for his resolution. Mr Ivica Letinić spoke before the board members about the above reasons for the temporary resolution and also delivered it in writing. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament unanimously took note of Mr Ivica Letinić's statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40995	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. It's a club debate. The SDP Club is a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40996	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, fellow State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we discuss this subject and this solution, it is very important to take care of the entire work of the agency, although the agency has received support some time ago for its work in the past period. The fact is that some data, some of the information that has come to the public in recent days, says exactly the opposite, that HANFA has not done its job in certain situations for what it was responsible for. This resolution, that is, this whole story about Mr Letinic's resolution and his reason for the resolution, is his letter to the Assembly and tells all parliamentary deputies about a rather confusing situation in HANFA. The fact that the motion for a resolution that came to the Government of the Republic of Croatia was not discussed as it was to be discussed at the management of the HANFA but was explained by the president of the HANFA administration, Mr Samodol, who is his proposal that the State Secretary here said does not work to improve the work of HANFA's reputation, etc. explained that Mr Letinić does not come to work occasionally, etc. With one quite pausal proposal and a flat-rate sentence. So the fact itself that the management of HANFA has not met on this issue and has not submitted a proposal to the government, or explained the reasons why one of the members of the administration should be replaced, is already sufficient reason to see that something in HANFA is wrong. But let's put it aside. We have a situation that's much more serious. Of course, it's serious, too, if it's not done in accordance with the law and very serious. But we have a situation that has upset the Croatian public in recent days. It's about trying to take over Podravka from certain structures of people, groups, groups, whatever they call it. More police and competent institutions are to be identified. But the fact is that certain people are in custody and the issue will open. It has a lot to do with the fact that HANFA isn't doing a job that should work. It's about the situation that HANFA didn't react to someone buying 10.64% of the shares through the company, that it didn't evaluate the necessary to make control of FIMA, to see who, why and how the shares were purchased. In addition to this, the fact in HANFA does not discuss such important matters, that the administration which is the sole authority to decide on the supervision of a particular entity and certain shares and certain transactions in the market has not met to discuss such an important matter. And that's what I'm talking about, in addition to the fact that in HANFA, apparently administrations don't get called up on a regular basis and don't call in the way and for things that should be called in, that the president of HANFA sometimes comes forward and takes positions on behalf of HANFA that he wouldn't have the right to. In fact, Mr Horvat one of those who was arrested in the state's attorney's office said that all transactions related to Podravka had been notified and spoken and communicated with HANFA. With whom, when there was no management of HANFA to discuss the case, apparently only with Mr. Samodol. And that there was nothing to do and the case of HANFA reacting when Pliva was privatized, how HANFA reacted and asked certain bidders to make offers for all Pliva shareholders, and when Mr Horvat talked about wanting to protect itself from certain enemy takeovers of Podravka and that he wanted to gain a 25% stake plus one share of it Mr. Samodol did not consider it necessary to speak either at the HANFA administration, let alone send surveillance to FIMA to see what it was really about. There are a few other cases that HANFA missed reacting to. I will talk about the case of the failed recapitalisation of the Adriatic Bank or in the case of the sale of a large number of INGA shares by a number of shareholders who were in a position to have certain information about the operations of INGRA on the inside. I'm saying all of this because I want to draw attention to the fact that things in HANFA don't work so well, people who participate in the capital market are not protected, and that this is how one thing I would say is a pretty simple explanation, which is why we need to change the board member to actually talk about how HANFA works. And because of everything I said now, because HANFA could and could not, she did not interfere with the Podravka case which is obviously going to be a big case in the Croatian economy to deal with police and justice. The SDP representative club will consider whether it will decide within a short time whether to propose to the Croatian Assembly a change in the management of HANFA with Mr Anto Samodol at the helm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40997	Thank you, sir, sir. Next is the HNS club, the respected representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40998	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The very point that we are discussing today on the agenda and the reasoning which is why and why the member of the board of directors is being replaced, Mr Letinić's observation of Mr Letinić, which we had the opportunity to get all by clubs and on the Committee on Finance, all together not to mention now both Podravka and the Adriatic Bank, INGRA all those things that are not good and are related to the basic and fundamental function of the HANFA are simply talking about people who lead this institution and the relationship of these people to the institution. And I think we at the Croatian People's Party club think that there is a key and a major problem and that this is something to talk about, which we need to discuss. Because talking and asking for a board member's shift because of unconscious work, which creates greater interference in the functioning of the agency, is that responsible. First of all, is this also responsible for the Croatian Parliament that makes decisions. Do I base those sentences on us being able to bring our own judgment? Is that what we can do, or is that sentence enough for us to decide when we vote, either for or against, or abstention? According to the information that I have and received from the Croatian People's Party club, we believe that it is doubtful whether this entire administration, headed by President Samodol, is capable of this very important institution, as a regulator of the financial market, whether it can lead not only professional parties, but also moral responsibilities and I particularly underline this moral responsibility. In the light of Mr. Letinic, who I repeat had the opportunity to read, there are a whole series of things whether they are justified, whether they are standing or not. We don't know that. Because the government has sent a request from the president of the HANFA administration, and it says that this need is to be replaced, because by its unwitting work, it creates increasing interference in the functioning of the agency. And that's where one of the very important questions is raised. Namely one of the reasons, and we had the opportunity to read it in the press, the statement by the president of the management of HANFA Mr Letinic violated the reputation of HANFA because he sleeps with his feet on the table. A statement by the president of the management of HANFA, sleeps in the workplace with his feet on the table. Declaration by the president of the management of HANFA. You've read it, too. And next, I'm asking, the one who sleeps with his feet on the table gets fired, and my question is, what about the one who sleeps all the time? And the case of Podravka and the case of the whole series, the whole series of damages done by this regulator is saying that she's asleep. I therefore think that this point and this problem in HANFA, in the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, is a reason to speak much more strongly about the agency, far more clearly. I'm not going back to Podravka, I'm not going back to all the damage that was done to the entire community by inaction. This is the government's problem definitely, and we expect the government to solve this problem, not just a member of the administration, but it solves the whole agency's issue, because it's really funny that someone who sleeps with their feet on the table gets fired, the one who keeps sleeping doesn't get fired. We at the Croatian People's Party club will be restrained at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u40999	Thank you very much. And the next-to-be-reported club is the HDZ club, the respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u41000	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honorary secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here's a new information, I didn't know that this member of the board, Mr. Letinić, was proposed to relieve a member of the board to sleep with his feet on the table during his work hours. As I understand it, it turns out it's really true, because you're saying so. Then he really doesn't deserve to be there. And whether or not HANFA sleeps, the best way to talk about it is to report regularly to the Parliament and how much memory I am served unanimously is to always report here accepted in this House. Is HANFA sleeping or not well showing that from 2006 to today they have filed 357 criminal charges and 31 criminal charges. It's official and accurate. This cannot be a result of any sleep, but rather it can only be an effective action. On the results of these reports we've had opportunities in public, we can't be satisfied at all. The role of HANFA in Pliva was also mentioned here, and as far as I know, HANFA has filed a criminal application for the availability of privileged information, which, at the price of 365 kuna to 460 to 517, was already known for an offer of 570 kuna per share, with shareholders losing 46 million kuna. Today, these shareholders are charging and getting convictions at the Trade Court, but no one has ever answered. That's not what HANFA's responsible for. HANFA's luck is effective and that this decision should be voted on even more effectively. And all the debates and on... There was more use of the opportunity to attack the president of HANFA than to talk about the possible lack of reason for resolution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to the fact that it is an illegal decision, as Mr Letinic and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget have both declared, and in writing that the decision has not been made, the Agency's administration has made no decision on this, and the administration has taken decisions from its own responsibilities and jurisdiction, and Article 15. The HANFA Act defines exactly what competences are and what is part of the work. So it lists, adopts regulations, monitors the operations of Croatian companies, institutional investors, the Central Insurance Register, requires measures to eliminate established illegalities, issues and withdraw work permits, etc. The Government was proposed by the president of the HANFA administration and, under Article 4(3), the President of the Administration represents the Agency and manages its work, and the Agency reports to the Government. We also heard many lunches in a statement at the expense of the president of HANFA's administration that an unauthorized person has submitted,... Right, because we said that the president of the administration is currently representing HANFA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That with this, if it had been damaged by long-term work, I would have just pointed out that HANFA passed the European Commission test, which in its last report praised the strengthening of administrative capacity and also praised supervisory activities, particularly in its contribution to reducing the impact of the financial crisis on the domestic financial market. At the same time, HANFA is a member of the International Market Regulatory Organisation. The screening process lasted 10 months and the verification committee consisted of representatives of the United States, Japan, Poland and Spain and was thus proven and confirmed that the HANFA met the highest supervisory and supervisory criteria expected of it in world regulators. As far as the lunches are concerned, there are also lunches about canceling the sessions that the president of the HANFA administration is canceling the sessions. In 42 weeks this year, 44 HANFA sessions were held, which can be checked on the HANFA website, there are session records. He's summoning them and leading the president of the HANFA administration. Mr Letinic also accused Mr Letinic of self-ruleing the finances of HANFA's management president, and by virtue of HANFA's Law, he is responsible for managing the finances. The financial report is also delivered to the Croatian Parliament. The charge of cover-up cases was also made, so that data from the start of the hearing on 357 criminal charges and 31 criminal charges could not confirm some cover-up. We also heard here that HANFA didn't do anything in the case of Podravka. The fact is, according to my knowledge, that at the end of 2007, HANFA made a request to the DORH and submitted a surveillance report. That it was then found that FIMA's loans that she bought from "Franck" and "Employment Banka Zagreb" shares "Podravka", but at that moment no one could or knew that there was a plan to acquire... and the content of the optional contracts with the FIMA group. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As much as it can read from the public to HANFA and currently co-operates with Hungarian and English regulators on this issue, it is working with the DORH, and the current findings in supervision and business are carried out in the "SMS" "FIMI Group" and "Podravci" MUP and Financial Inspection. Therefore, one cannot possibly be accused now and alleging that the guilt and disadvantages of the president of HANFA's administration ignore the fact that someone is obstructing the work of HANFA's administration, and by their incompetence, by their relationship, and as a colleague even says, by sleeping at work, it is indeed being obstructed. And otherwise, me personally, and I doubt anyone can impress the strategy of an ex-post mind, so if there's anything, then it should have been said long ago, not after the motion for a solution comes. The HDZ Club therefore supports the government's decision and will vote in favour of the government's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u41001	Thank you very much. With this debate, and I conclude the overall debate on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the so far and the appointment of a new member of the HANFA Management Board. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We've come to the end of today's agenda. Tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m., we continue first with the proposal for a decision to resolve the current and appoint a new member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, then the final proposal of the Law on Protection against Family Violence and then on the agenda. Thank you very much until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-22-0.u41002	Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the former and the appointment of a new member of the Management Board of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Management Board of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 72 votes for, 25 abstentions, 3 against the motion was made. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 77 votes for, 20 abstentions, nothing against the proposed Decisions on the appointment of a member of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Authority.
