ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44126	We're moving on with the session. It is next - Final proposal of the law on agriculture, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 469. The applicant is the Government, amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and local and regional self-government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Law and Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Josip Kraljičković will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44127	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. I am pleased to explain briefly on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia the proposal for a law on agriculture with the final proposal. It's been eight years since the first Agricultural Law was passed. In our country, there have been significant changes in our environment. This proposal for a law is adapted to these changes that took place during the first period and updated with our obligations that we are obliged to fulfil by the time we enter into the European Union itself. The Agriculture Act is a roof law on agriculture that regulates the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, determines the scope of our agricultural activity, defines the forms of action of the agricultural holding, regulates institutional support for agriculture, prescribes administrative monitoring and enforcement of agriculture, regulates administrative and inspection supervision. This agricultural law has first added strategic importance and has been characterised as an activity that contributes to the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia by its economic, ecological, social role. The definition of a agricultural holding has been expanded, and the purpose of the family holding, trade society, cooperatives, the agricultural holding is considered by other legal persons involved in agriculture. The definition of a family agricultural holding has also been improved, with the basic feature being maintained but it has been added that full-time members of the household make up the family holding. It is also defined as a family holding holding as a full-time or part-time adult in the economy and is responsible for its business, and is selected by the members of the economy. The goal is, and agricultural policies have not changed, they are slightly clarified in certain parts. The law prescribes basic strategic and programming documents. The agricultural and rural development strategy governing long-term objectives and measures as well as entities responsible for the implementation of those measures and adopted by the Assembly. Agricultural policy is implemented under the national programme for agriculture and rural development, which is carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a period of 5 years and which should ensure coordination of all multiannual programming documents. The annual report on the situation of agriculture in the previous calendar year with a proposal for agricultural policy measures for the next period shall be drawn up by the Ministry and published as a public document in the National Journal, thus made available to all interested and, where appropriate, the Parliament may decide to attend the meeting of the Assembly. In addition to market... policies, rural development policy and land policy, a general framework for sustainable development measures in agriculture is defined, which, with already... research institutions, professional scientific advisory measures include strengthening the eco-aware approach to resource management. By applying good agricultural practice and by introducing the concept of integrated production, whose products are marked by the label of integrated products, this will enable our farmers to say so, and third forms of agriculture can be dealt with legally. The law provides for the introduction of a register of state aid in agriculture, for which it is responsible and implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture. By setting up that register, it will be our obligation when we are in the European Union, and we will have to regularly report to the European Union, or to the Commission on our support, and we will have to bring state aid in line with their directives in this area. It is the same thing with prices in agricultural products for which we will have to adapt the monitoring methodology to compare our prices with the European Union methodology and which we will also have to regularly deliver to the European Commission. This Law defines gas oil users and what is important... to be exclusively agricultural holdings that are listed in the register of agricultural holdings which are users of direct payments in agriculture. As long as the detailed work is arranged by a special regulation. The establishment and development of a system of agricultural accounting data is called FADN in the European Union, and we will receive valuable data on the business of success in the cost of agricultural holdings. We will have to deliver the results reports to the European Commission once we are members of the European Union. Administrative inspection supervision is governed by the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act. We believe that this Proposal for a Law on Agriculture with the Final Proposal is also a good basis for the development of a part of the national agricultural policy that we will implement by entering the European Union. I stress in the end that this law remains in force and when we enter the European Union as a Croatian national law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44128	Thank you. Legislative Committees, European Integrations? Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Chairman of the Committee of Ms. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee held a hearing at the 25th session, as a parent working body, and the opening statement was tabled by a representative of the applicant. The debate put forward a proposal for amendments to the proposal for a law to determine the performance of additional activities in agricultural holdings. This would allow for further employment and an increase in income in agricultural holdings, although income from additional activity cannot be greater than the income achieved from the primary agricultural activity. The proposal was agreed by the present committee members. It is expressed dissatisfaction that this bill obliges the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development to adopt a green report and, unlike the provisions of the current Agricultural Act, deny the possibility of discussing the green report by representatives of the Croatian Parliament. It is estimated that the laws we are approaching the EU should be preceded by an analysis of what has been passed by the laws so far. In particular, an analysis of the situation in agriculture is needed which would point to the effects of support under the system that we have so far had as well as the willingness of family and agricultural economies and other entities to use pre-accession aid programmes. Pre-accession programmes as well as the institutional framework are the basis for future use of European funds for agriculture and rural development. The debate also showed that during the 6-year study, experts from the Institute for Animal Nutrition should also be involved in the agricultural and advisory activities of Article 17 of the Law and are trained to design and participate in the design and development of programmes and to develop and improve the activities of livestock production and production of foodstuffs and products of animal origin. Veterinary experts are inevitable in the livestock sector not only in the treatment of domestic animals. It has been pointed out that inspection supervision will not be able to comply with Article 28, since there is no inspector with the completed undergraduate study of the agricultural and food profession, and in particular there is at least 4 years of work experience in the relevant jobs. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by majority vote 5 for, 2 against, 1 abstention to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Agricultural Law with the following amendment, which reads: "A new article 16 which reads as follows: "Supplemental activities in the family, agricultural economy." First, the additional activities at the OPG are activities related to agriculture that allow better use of production capacities and better use of the work of OPG members. Secondly, the types of additional activities at the OPG, the conditions for their implementation, will be prescribed by the Minister with the opinion of the tourism, economic and forestry ministry. Articles 16 to 44 shall become Articles 17 to 45. The explanation, the definition of complementary activities at the OPG will allow for additional employment creation and an increase in income in family and agricultural economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44130	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. I'm opening a debate. SDP counseling club. Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44131	The Agriculture Act, as a roof law adopted in 2001, was supposed to be the beginning of serious work in the legislative sphere, practice on the reform of the agricultural system, or on the preparation of farmers for then-looking Croatia's entry into the EU. It has been eight years since, and there has been no significant shifts at the level of legislation, especially in agricultural production itself. It is only the last year that we are working hastily on legislation, but little has been done to build institutional infrastructure, which is now being organised rapidly under the pressure of deadlines after opening negotiations on the agricultural chapter. In production, it was also important and there were insufficient positive shifts especially when the production on the family holding is analysed, with of course small exceptions. Although the 2001 law stipulates an obligation to refer once a year to the debate of the so-called Parliament. The Green Report assessing the state of agriculture and the analysis of the effectiveness of agricultural measures has not been sent to the Assembly once or has been discussed. This relates to the attitude towards this sector, but also the seriousness with which we have worked so far to implement european domestic legislation in practice. This is now an opportunity to say something about the current state policy in agriculture. In view of the budgetary opportunities and the situation of the industrial sector which most stands out in the agriculture budget, it has been relatively quite singled out through support and subsidies, but with little results in terms of increasing production and competitiveness, changes in the structure in traditional plant production and reduction of imports. It is an amazing fact that we produce food for only 2 million and 700 thousand inhabitants, and our land capacities are much higher. The support for agriculture from 2001 to 2009 was doubled from the State budget and over the last 2 years amounted to approximately 3 million kuna, or 43% of all state support allocated from the state budget when we talk about 2009 or at 2.3% of the state budget or about 1.9% of gross social product. Direct support receives about 18% of households owned by agricultural land, with an average receiving about 3,000, 900 euros. Precalculated to a hectare, our support users receive significantly more support than they are in the EU, especially when compared to new EU members. However, support is not aimed at raising competitiveness, quality, changing the unfavourable structure of production. In other words, they are not based on economic but more on social criteria. Sometimes even populistally directed at voters in the country. The result is both small and expensive production, high imports and insufficient preparation for new conditions of adjustment in line with the common agricultural policy after Croatia's entry into the EU. This bill actually introduces a European agricultural policy into Croatian agriculture. Agriculture is one of the main topics of the draft European community, and objectives and fundamental principles are defined by the Treaty establishing the European Community. The common agricultural policy is one of the most important areas of action and the concentration of money, with more than 50% of the EU budget being allocated. The EU has defined a common agricultural policy since 1962. Of course, with continuous alignment, and today it's being conducted so-called. a new agricultural policy. This Regulation shall enter The Treaty on European Community regulates the objectives of the common agricultural policy such as raising agricultural productivity, promoting technical progress, national development of agricultural production, optimal use of production factors, in particular labour, ensuring the standard of living of farmers by raising their income, stabilising the market, security of supply and providing agricultural products to consumers at appropriate and reasonable prices. The new agricultural policy of the European Union binds subsidies to environmental protection measures, food safety, the application of health standards for plants, animals, animal welfare and the like. The European Union has also defined a strategic focus on rural development in 6 areas, and the most important are increasing competitiveness, improving the environment and nature, improving the quality of life in rural areas, building local employment skills. These are the criteria by which we must prepare our farmers for the future use of agricultural aid. Croatia received an indicative financial envelope of about 800m euros, of which more than 40% refers to rural development. How and how much we will manage to use these funds by entering the European Union depends on how much we will be prepared to withdraw them. The new proposal for the Agriculture Act respects the largest part of the European Union's agricultural policy. We have no objections to this, but we have serious criticism about the practice of agricultural policy in Croatia. We also appreciate the need to open a debate in Parliament on the state of Croatia's agriculture and its perspectives. It's not about how much money is placed through agricultural support, it's about how effective they are. Of course, it is important for the farmer to know in advance what and how much support he will receive. For example. in the European Union, such plans are drawn up for 7 years in advance. We have almost no security on the amount and time of payment of subsidies. According to some indications, the support to users has not been fully paid for 2008 and in particular the late capital support paid at almost a year and several days behind. Little attention is given to removing the factor of incompetence in agriculture. The main shortcomings in such inefficientness of domestic agricultural production are small property and are also fragmented, small areas are irrigated, small or almost no association of small farmers in the production and transport sense, the low educational structure is in a professional way, only about 0.4% of farmers in family economies have high or higher agricultural facilities, small investments in rural development. Croatia, as an extremely rural environment with 93% of the rural territory on which about 47% of the population live, must pay more attention not only through agriculture but through regional development. Through rural development, it is necessary to invest in municipal and social infrastructure, build small production plants, provide additional activities to increase the income of farmers. At this time of 2012 when Croatia is taken as a year of entry into the European Union, and negotiations on the Agriculture and Rural Development chapter begin, the most important is the training of administrative capacities and information and training of commercial agricultural households for the new system that we are building in agriculture. We will vote for the law but we warn of a huge delay in its application in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44132	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44133	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Since the first adoption of the Agriculture Act in 2001, it has been eight years, and in our domestic and European agricultural environment since then, many changes have been made that need to be updated with this new law. The proposal for a law is therefore adapted to the new developments that take place during the pre-accession period and to the adjustments to EU legislation. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development provided for the adoption of this law in the national programme for joining the European Union for 2009, although all its provisions do not comply with European legislation. However, this law contains provisions which are a condition for the withdrawal of funds from the EU or are an obligation for membership in the European Union. This law adds to agriculture the characteristic of strategic activities, emphasising what kind of activity contributes to the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia's economic, environmental and social role. Thus, the definition of European definitions of agriculture that no longer put emphasis solely on food production is traced, but is given a more significant or multi-functional role of agriculture, which contributes to the improvement of life in the countryside and the preservation of the environment. The definition of a agricultural holding has been expanded, and other legal persons dealing with agriculture are considered to be other than the family holding, crafts and company or cooperative. This primarily refers to schools, penitentiary offices, religious communities and similar legal entities that have agricultural production, and could not be classified into the three categories of activities of agricultural holdings so far. Market-price policy measures in this law are more summarised and systematised than so far. The law governing the market for agricultural products shall elaborate on these measures and bring them into line with the EU Directive, which is also one of the criteria for closing the negotiations on Chapter 11. - Agriculture and rural development. These measures regulate laws in the area of the organisation of the agricultural products market and in the area of State aid in agriculture. Instead of the current structural policy measures, a new term of rural development measures has been introduced, which are in line with the measures detailed in the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development, on the basis of which the main implementation rules will be adopted in the field of rural development. The policy measures define a general framework for the principle of sustainable development in agriculture, which includes strengthening eco-aware access to potential management, applying good agricultural practice, and introduces the concept of integrated production whose products are marked by the label integrated product. In addition to these measures it is envisaged that specific support can also be given to agriculture as regulated by specific regulations. In view of the current law in accordance with the current situation, an article relating to the register of agricultural holdings has been re-edited, and it has been determined that the ministry is still responsible for it, but the affairs of its management are entrusted to the paying agency. The paying agency shall register and issue the OPG card to the holder. It also provides for the adoption of a total of eight regulations, starting with the Integrated Production Regulation, in close with the agricultural inspector's card Regulation. Some of those regulations have already been adopted under the existing law and will apply until new implementing rules enter into force. An important chapter concerns administrative inspection, with more precise inspections within the ministry than the existing law. The main intention of adopting this law is to adapt to the new developments that take place during the pre-accession period and to adapt the legislation of the European Union. The Agriculture Act will be applied as a roof agricultural law and after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, with the appropriate necessary adjustments to the law being made. The Croatian Democratic Community club will accept the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44134	Thank you. Club of HSS Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44135	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As always when it comes to agriculture, I will say that agricultural production is one of the strategic issues of every country and so is the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, for all praise that the provision that agriculture is a strategic activity was included in the provision of this law. This may help to contribute to this economic branch in practice the importance it deserves and what the practice on the European Union is about and the amount of funds allocated to agriculture there. In fact, they have often been criticised, especially in recent times, for spending a lot on them and for the results to be small or zero. However, it is forgotten that agriculture depends on weather conditions or troubles. It is therefore impossible to plan, with a grain of wheat, cucumber, pepper or tomatoes, how much of the crop will be planned, especially today when the climate change is making it more common for sudden storms or longer dry seasons, and it is even more difficult to predict what will be the result and seed. On the other hand, food prices on the global market are constantly rising, as has been warned at a recent FAO food conference. It has also been warned that billions of people are starving in the world today. Let's just remember the crisis that caused a huge increase in the prices of some types of grains due to production last year was fuel. And who makes the food? The farmers. Unfortunately, we in Croatia do not have sufficient food production for our own needs, and this is among other consequences and disorganization. Unfortunately, this is the result of a long-term trend. The Croatian village has been rapidly demographically backward for the last half century. Young people leave so that 85% of rural settlements face a reduction in population. If people leave the village who will deal with agriculture and the one who was economically profitable. We know that among other things, the pain of Croatian agriculture and the small area, which is owned by family farms. However, with the production of competitive products and services and on relatively small land property, employment can be ensured to preserve the Croatian village. In addition to food production, rural agriculture also fills a spatial but ecological function. This area should therefore be regulated legally, except for the purpose of harmonising with the acquis, in order to allow the survival of domestic agricultural production. We believe in the HSS that this legal proposal will contribute. The agricultural law is a roof law containing the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, defining agricultural activity, agricultural holdings and agricultural institutions. He also defines inspection supervision. The objectives are general and there is nothing to add or subtract. They are similar to what they should be in any Member State of the European Union or in any country in the world that agriculture is one of our strategic activities. Agricultural policy measures are increasingly approaching those in the European Union, which is also justified when we have already opted for membership negotiations. It is up to our farmers to adapt and make better use of the benefits that such a system provides and it is up to us to help them do so. In particular, it is necessary to do everything in order to enable the survival of family farms to stop the eviction of young people from rural space. We in HSS have often warned that so far the poor development potential that lies in the integration of agriculture and tourism, in particular the possibility of placing organically produced agricultural products and further developing agro tourism. Namely, the great potential for dealing with this type of tourism undoubtedly has rural areas along the entire Adriatic coast, as well as those near national parks. We therefore support giving growing importance to the ecological and particularly integrated production introduced by this law. That's very good because it suggests that our food will be getting healthier, but I also have to say that I hope it will affect the number of organic agricultural producers. This must also be influenced by the fact that this way of production is more demanding but the effort is paid because such products on the market achieve a higher price. In addition, the overall benefits for society are also greater because other than producing healthy food, this type of agriculture is far more favourable for the environment. We also see that the law provides for the establishment of a register of state aid. It's really high time to list in one place what the state has given and how much. There will be less abuse, duplication and problematic users of support. There will also be some order in the markets. It will use the family farm card for which inspection sales are prescribed, which is very good. The whole process of enrolment in the register of agricultural holdings and the submission of requests for direct payment of the inspection supervision of the support users is unusually important to serve and produce, lay down and produce, so that the state money allocated for support in agriculture is best directed and found the right purpose for the development of our agriculture. We therefore believe that the law should be supported because it contains good elements for the continuation of compliance with European agricultural policy and will also help us define the agricultural legislative framework and build it into the mechanisms necessary for the functioning of such complex, multi-functional and, above all, strategic activities. I will conclude that the natural conditions allow us to become an exporter from the food importer. Namely, Croatia has such climate conditions that it can produce anything other than bananas or coconuts, coffees or some exotic spices. In addition to this fight for the establishment of climate change, which includes greater use of renewable energy sources to give rural space a new production opportunity. The village is no longer just a food producer but can also be a producer of energy, as well as a rural space, along with the set frames, becoming the key to ensuring two assumptions of the true independence of one country, food production and energy production. On the other hand, the environmental awareness of citizens grows and wants to buy not only organic products and often gives local food production advantages whose transport will not result in a high fuel consumption and, proportionally, significant greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, domestic agricultural production protects jobs, rural space, enables renewable energy to be produced and also guarantees consumers the right to choose a variety of domestic food products. Therefore, the Croatian Peasants' Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44136	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. There's one wonderful thing we've heard from the secretary of state and it's written in law, which is that agriculture gets the mark of strategic activity through this law. I really don't know what we've been discussing all these years, and everyone when any of us in their debate mentioned agriculture as a strategic activity, obviously, was wrong. This Proposal for a Law on Agriculture is essentially a roof law in the area of the economic branch, our strategic economic branches by new ones, called agriculture. The development of this economic branch depends definitely on the sovereignty of our country, the existence of a large part of our country's citizens, the regional and rural development of our regions, but it is especially important to highlight and mention the many very sad existential fates of our citizens who have tied their personal and existential responsibility to agriculture as a source of existence so far and so far. Namely, the Law on Agriculture was passed by the Croatian Parliament in 2001. At that time, the coalition government announced it very effectively as the beginning of the reform of Croatian agriculture and the law, together with the Agricultural Land Act, the State Aid Act, in agriculture and fisheries should provide a normative framework for the implementation of the necessary reforms in agriculture. How successful we have been in agriculture since 2001, as of 2008, according to data from the State Statistics Institute, is that our food imports have increased 3.1 times, that our food exports have increased by 2.9 times, that the share of exports in imports was only 55% in 2001 and that our exports have been increased by 2.9 times. 53% or deficit increased by 3.26 times in 2008. Therefore, these are the results of our success, I will not say agricultural policy, but I will say in creating conditions for the implementation of agricultural policy. It is true and must be said clearly that in the last few years a whole series of laws and the Law on Agricultural Land, on the Croatian Centre for Agriculture and Food and that I do not list further, and legally we have created excellent conditions. But how and how is this done in practice? It was an obligation in the 2001 Agriculture Act, which is to refer the so-called so-called Government to the Parliament. Green report. Since 2001, never, literally never in the House has this green report been addressed and parliamentary representatives as representatives of the people, the only legitimate ones, have never had the opportunity to discuss the situation in agriculture. Never. They never had the opportunity to propose, except by individual laws, but not complex. This speaks of honesty and determination and ability when we talk about agriculture as a strategic economic activity, the strategic branch of those who are obliged to provide the conditions. Maybe I should just mention a few things, because it can generally be said that this Agriculture Act, the one we're discussing today, is basically almost the same as the one that was passed eight years ago. Almost the same, with the modifications that are necessary because of the time shift and the things that have happened in the European Union and the things that are happening with us, and because of our approach to the European Union. There is a program called the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Areas. In the old law it was Article 5, in the new law it is Article 6, and that national programme contains short- and medium-term objectives, measures, timelines, deadlines for achieving these objectives, expected effects and amounts and sources of money to implement agricultural policy measures. The government proposes it, brought by the Croatian Parliament in a period of up to five years. I ask each of you and all of us has this law ever been passed in the Croatian Parliament in which the obligation was made under Article 5 of the Old Agricultural Law? It's not. Because at the end of the term, the coalition government adopted him and forwarded him to the Croatian Parliament. However, in the Croatian Parliament, it has been six years, it has failed to come to the agenda, so it has not been adopted or better said and it does not exist. Furthermore, according to this proposal, there is an obligation to develop the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development. However, we in the Parliament will not have the opportunity to discuss the programme again because, under the new law, the government adopts it on a proposal from the ministry. So we won't have the opportunity to discuss the programme again in Parliament, the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development. Furthermore, under Article 39 of the applicable law, and also in the new law, the Government was to set up the National Council for Agriculture and Rural Areas as a professional and advisory body of the Government. And my question is on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, is this a council established, who are members of the council and what are the effects of this council as an advisory body? I think it's a minimum of decency that MPs in the Croatian Parliament should know. And not just representatives, but all those who have tied their existence to agriculture. Keep going. Article 7(3) states that agricultural policy measures must be mutually consistent and implemented in accordance with the principles of neutrality and equality. This provision existed in the old law and we in the Croatian People's Party club would be very happy to know how it was implemented in practice, so the measures of agricultural policy must be mutually consistent and implemented according to the principles of equality and neutrality. How they were conducted in the Parliament, and what happens if these measures were not in line. I think these are two very important questions to which I should get an answer. Article 12(3) states that the national rural development programme is an integral part of the national programme for agriculture and rural development of Article 6 of this Act. However, the Government should bring the National Rural Development Programme to 31. 12. In 2009. And according to this Act, the creation of a national programme for agriculture and rural development has a deadline of one year. I just want to ask if we're going to get a national rural development programme that's extremely important, and I'm going to end up with something, within a year, or we're going to wait for a new national programme for agriculture and rural development, as long as the proposer of this law has set a deadline in Article 12. And finally again, one pearl, a really pearl, is this famous "Green Report". Under the Law on Agriculture, the Green Report was to come to the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government, the deadlines were precisely prescribed. Under this Act, this Green Report, and the Green Report contains an assessment of the situation, both the economic situation of agriculture and the proposal and the way in which agricultural policy measures are implemented for the next period, is produced by the Ministry and published in the National Journal, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not discuss it, nor does the Croatian Parliament discuss it. Agricultural producers and citizens of the Republic of Croatia can only find out in the only way, get a picture of our situation in agriculture, which things are not good, what things are good, what changes are proposed by reading the National Journal. My colleagues and colleagues, I think the word responsibility is too strong a word, too strong a word for such a proposal that we are offered in this bill. We at the Club of the Croatian People's Party consider it particularly important and the aim of this Law should be to enable producers in agriculture and all who plan their existence in agriculture to prepare themselves especially at this time for the major changes ahead of us and in the first order before them to join the European Union. We at the Club of the Croatian People's Party, like all other clubs in this House, believe that agriculture is one of the key points of the Croatian economy, identity and competitiveness at the European level. At the same time as our agricultural producers get a chance to present and compete on the European market of half a billion inhabitants, all European producers where food is a market that is largely satisfied with these key food products and these large producers will be able to find themselves on the Croatian market. It is therefore logical that we now determine those areas in agriculture, in which we are based on an analysis of the European market and our situation, have the opportunity to be competitive on that large market. These are certainly not all products but there is no doubt that there are products, there are segments or parts of agricultural production in which we can be competitive not only when we enter the European Union on the domestic market but also on a much wider and perhaps even on the common European market. In order to take advantage of this comparative advantage, in order to determine these market niches within agricultural production where we and our agricultural producers can be competitive we need to make a kind of priority in agricultural production that we will stimulate where we will make it easier for people to reorient from what they are now producing and where there is no way of being competitive with the European market and to reorientate on that production where they will be able to be competitive on the European market. We all agree, and we all agree with the fact that the quality of life in the country that contributes on the one hand to the retention of people in the country, and then to entrepreneurship in agriculture, so to view agriculture as a form of economic activity and a kind of entrepreneurship rather than as a traditional way of life. Through rural development funds, Croatia must put itself in a position to promote projects to improve the quality of life in the country especially for young people, so that they can, because they are the only potential holder of a different approach to agriculture, which is agriculture as an economic activity and entrepreneurship. Therefore, at the Club of the Croatian People's Party, we will support this law exclusively as a direction in which we want to go when we talk about agriculture and rural development, but we stress that it is only one small drop in the sea of what we should have already done and what we should do and we hope to do very concrete things and that we will not base our political existence on the story and the care of the village but on the real and very concrete measures that will enable people who have tied their lives to rural space, create conditions for them to achieve their wish in very concrete results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44138	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Koračević incorrectly stated that parliamentary representatives had never had the opportunity to discuss the situation in agriculture, that it says that agriculture does not have a strategy. That's not true, you've kind of denied yourself because you said a whole series of quality laws have been passed that regulate this area. You said it wasn't like that in practice. In practice, of course, we have discussed the agriculture of these laws every time in the context of the debate on the budget. But in practice, the budget for last year itself was 33% higher than the previous year. 550 barns are built milk, milk production is significantly increased and in any case. This coalition government has set the scale very high, there's a lot of work to be done but it will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44140	There's a debate going on around the clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the National Minority Club, distinguished colleague Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44141	Honorable Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club will support the adoption of this law, but I will not agree with this amendment that we have a strategy on agriculture. We don't have it. Only when a strategy is adopted is it good to pass implementing laws according to that strategy, and we constantly chase pots. We pass support laws, the Law on the Market of Agricultural Products and a series of laws relating to agriculture, and only now do we pass the roofing Agriculture Act. The fact is that since 2001, we have had a Law on Agriculture, which unfortunately in large parts, that is, many articles or many parts have not been implemented. And I must say I regret the lost eight years since the first law was passed, because time has not been used for post-war and transition recovery of agriculture. We have not returned agricultural production, not modernised enough and increased capacity for new technologies, and we have therefore neither increased productivity nor competitiveness of agriculture. Not only have we not had a strategy or a national programme, but indeed this House has not been reported, and I will not regret seven reports. But I'm going to say that the government and the ministry had, respecting this High House would at least file a report now before this law was passed so that we really know on what foundations we're going to be rebuilding a new policy. Because let's not forget that the law was based on European law, in 2001 it had European foundations but then it favored quality, environmentalism, etc. The new law goes further towards income and rural development, i.e. we will no longer have full direct incentives and change of approach. Therefore, when we now have a new approach to agriculture again, it was necessary to determine how far we have arrived, what is the situation in our agriculture, what have we achieved by shooting nearly three billion yearly incentives in agriculture and certainly that we could then discuss the application of this law, or the application of a common agricultural policy that awaits us by entering the European Union. We have always taken certain measures as to whether or not it was a market, whether it was about some sudden changes. I'll just mention the last case of capital investments that were abolished overnight, and they could go. The fact is, we've spent more money than planned and more than we have in that position. But the fact is that there has been a failure to control the implementation of these measures again, and I would say that someone would have to be responsible for this implementation because it is possible to resell three times within one family, raise funds for capital investments without anyone noticing it. Normally someone in the ministry can't see it. But we had to have competent people who had to follow where the N sheep were going from the state budget that unfortunately didn't happen. The agriculture of this law is accompanied by a feature of strategic activity which contributes to sustainable development by its economic, environmental and social role. Well, colleagues, haven't we so far treated agriculture on the one hand as a production of agricultural, or food production? But on the other hand, it is also the preservation of landscapes and a series of others to say parts that are tied to the village and rural space. Let us also remember the social note that this law had, or return to support. Isn't the social note supporting income where we supported a hectare, a cow, or simply instead of a pension on the burden of agriculture, we took care of the welfare of the country. This law certainly defines a family agricultural economy better, we define the holders of that holding who are responsible. The targets remain the same. We have defined the food safety of the population that settles to the greatest extent domestically competitive agricultural products. That was the definition in the past law. That's the definition now. But is that right? Whether we're safe from domestic production. Unfortunately, almost 40% of the imports are imported, and obviously they've failed some mechanisms, because it's not clear to me every time I ask a question, it's normal that we can't ban imports. But how other countries are defended from imports if imported somewhere between eight and ten percent and then the lights are already on throughout the country. We're importing 40%, and we're saying we can't put an end to it. Obviously, we don't want to apply any mechanisms. The objectives mention the efficiency of production and the market, strengthening competitiveness for export purposes. So we don't have sugar and tuna. I wonder what we'd even be exporting. In any case, we obviously don't have competitive production. We are talking about the possibilities that we must give consumers an adequate and stable supply of food in terms of the price and quality of food and food safety. We had that defined before. We define that now. But we lack the greater involvement of our institutions, our labs. Because, as I have already said, there are no import bans, but in Europe, imported food is returning from China because of heavy metals, due to mercury, the irradiated food is returning. How much food has come back from our country? Or mention it doesn't have to be irradiated or irradiated, it doesn't have to have heavy metals. Let's remember the imports of apples. Who is responsible for the discharge of European freezers, the import of apples. In addition to the fact that we have invested huge money on the one hand in raising permanent pestilences. We started to invest in the most expensive part of the coolant, not even refrigerators with controlled air, but in the most expensive freezers, and at the same time, we have no one to place our production, because we also claim that the market is flooded with imported non-quality apples. So someone had to control those imports, and if nothing else banned imports as imports, they had to ban import quality. Because we can't talk about importing garbage, importing European garbage, if there are no arguments behind it, there are no food agencies or anyone else who can prove that it doesn't meet our standards. We are talking about organic agriculture, which should be a priority and certainly one of the objectives. But just as we got a green report or any such foundation of the current state of agriculture, we would see that in 15 years we achieved everything under organic production put 10,000 hectares or 1%. If in 15 years we have hired 1% of agricultural areas in organic production, can we say that the future is in organic production? Did we say that this particular organic production is precisely asking for a lot of living work? That they have to be closed wholes? That they must be able to master organic matter, etc. It means that we obviously didn't engage enough to support this organic food, or food that should at least be exported in one part of our product because we're talking about areas that are actually ecologically unpolluted today. A lot is said in the Law on additional activity or popular diversification and the development of rural economic activities, in order to increase the income of the rural population. But nowhere is it said that we will not achieve this without strong additional education and change in vocational education, because neither rural tourism, traditional crafts, farm processing plants, where we often introduce much stricter conditions than Europe does, and we want small crafts or farm processing to develop. I have recently watched a report from the European Union, where the same farmer for similar production in the European Union is sufficient to have three rooms and through them to take up activity, normally meeting all the conditions necessary. Our farmer or man on the O.P.G. must have 11 rooms. I'm sorry, there's obviously something out of line, and that is why we need to take this work more seriously and promote some common European criteria that we need to introduce in agriculture. Market-price policy measures in the new law certainly do better and want to strengthen the domestic market, strengthen domestic competitiveness, as we have said before. We have new rural development policy measures which are, in fact, the current structural policy measures, whether they are capital investments, income support, marketing support, rural development, etc. However, it is logical that he wants to unite himself with the IPARD criteria because it is far easier, and for the above mentioned reasons it was to obtain funds from capital investments, that is, capital support works compared to IPARD because the IPARD is still strictly controlled, and here I have already set an example of where our assets have been leaking. I'm glad that the big part will be taken over by the paying agency, but I don't know how long it'll take for it to really become qualified for everything that needs to be done. Because it is necessary to monitor not only the flow of money from European funds, but the entire course of that money towards agriculture, that is to say, direct spending on family economies, from market price policy through rural development, all should be done by the agency, all based on... , that there will be no more speculation with agricultural particles where each particle will certainly be registered, or there will be no incentive where no particles are registered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also have a new system of agricultural bookkeeping... Because so far we've been working on the principle of our inspectors' assessment, they've come out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This year it's greener, so it's more sown. If we had 100 grand last year, so this year it's 120 grand, etc. It is now going to be a system of bookkeeping that will fundamentally monitor how income of the economy, economic efficiency, analysis, analysis of the measures, and certainly give importance to this and I say nothing will be based on an assessment anymore. The Agency shall even take over the keeping of the register. And in the end, I'd just as much like to come back, and so would my predecessor on the green report. The fact is, for eight years it hasn't been tolerated, the fact is it was binding. The same way she's bound to put it together and here under the new law. I think that, as it has been so far in law, the government for implementation should be accountable to this Parliament. Therefore, the report should continue, at least until problems in our agriculture are resolved, to be submitted to the Parliament. But not only is it a paper obligation, but it's a real commitment, because as much as we're trying to talk partially, and never thoroughly about agriculture, believe it'll cost us two, three years from now. Therefore, the law supports that, to change that the Green Report must be in the Assembly, that the Parliament must at least once a year discuss the branch or activity, or whatever we call agriculture that is important, not only today still for 15% of the population living of it, but for agriculture that is important for the preservation of space and all that is in addition to rural space and the existence of that space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44142	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual discussion. First, a colleague, Dragutin Lesar, checked in. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Afterwards, the application of his colleague, Zvonimir Mrsic. He's not here either. And he's losing his right to debate. Login from colleague Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. He's here. Here you go, pals. She's giving up. Thank you very much. So it's my colleague Kreso Filipovic's application. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44143	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I will try to remind you as well as a good part of the speakers before me that the Agriculture Act was passed almost full, slightly more than full, 8 years, so in 2001. That's what I'm saying just for reasons that we can all figure out together that in the meantime there have been significant changes both at our national level in agriculture and also in our environment. So, all these changes, precisely because of these changes, the current Agriculture Act is no longer a quality legislative basis for the Croatian agriculture area. Therefore, it is also necessary to adapt to the new circumstances most recently conditioned in this pre-accession period by the process of adapting national legislation to EU legislation. In this opening part, I would just like to say that the proposal of the Agriculture Act, which we are currently discussing, is adapted to the changes that occurred during the past period, which concerned the harmonisation of its provisions with the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development and the proposal of the Law on the Regulation of the Market which we voted on today and which we adopted at the Parliament's session today. We can therefore say that this law is updated with our obligations that we are obliged to fulfil by the time we enter the EU itself. The proposed Agriculture Act as well as the current law therefore constitutes a roof law for the area of agriculture that regulates the objectives and measures of agricultural policy covering and the importance of agricultural activity, so to speak, and all other things referred to in Article 1 of the Law itself. I personally believe that some have already said this before me, that the provision of Article 2 of this Law is commendable because agriculture is defined as an activity of strategic importance that should contribute to the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia in view of its economic, environmental and social role. Someone said it was agriculture and so far, agriculture really was and so far, but in a formal sense it wasn't arranged. Such a determination against agriculture no longer puts emphasis solely on food production, but gives agriculture a multi-functional role to address the improvement of life in the country and the preservation of the environment. I personally believe that this attitude towards agriculture will help to contribute to this economic branch in the Republic of Croatia and in practice to the importance it truly deserves. The law also extends the definition of a holding covered by family farms, craftsmen, companies or cooperatives and those of other legal entities which have so far not placed their place in the law and which are still engaged in agricultural production. It is also an improved definition of the family holding and is defined as having a family holding as a full-time or part-time adult working on the holding and is responsible for its business. The economy operator is certainly chosen by household members, or households. Furthermore, the law defines basic strategic and programming documents implementing agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia. Like the Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development brought by the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Annual Report, which we have heard a lot about today, about the state of agriculture in the previous calendar year. So, so-called. Green report. I can agree with Mr. Korajevic that the Green Report was never in the session of the Parliament, but the Green Report as I recall working at the Ministry of Agriculture was neatly drawn up and I would not agree with all those who realized that nothing had been done in the past 10 years when it came to Croatian agriculture because these reports, or that documentation, are saying the opposite. And I would also like to stress that at any moment, I think the Secretary of State may, at all times, ask the competent ministry to submit a Green Report to the Parliament or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in order to discuss this with the Green Report and the situation in agriculture. And we also have witnesses whenever agricultural topics are discussed to practically discuss the very state of agriculture at Parliament's meetings. It is also important to stress that the law, in addition to the measures of agricultural policy, which entail therefore market-price policy measures, rural development policies and land policy measures, defines the general framework of sustainable development measures in agriculture by strengthening the environmentally-aware approach to the management of agricultural resources, the application of good agricultural practice and the establishment of an integrated production system. I personally think that this way and this approach will contribute to making our agricultural production less and less burdened with chemically harmful substances in the future, and food from Croatian agriculture increasingly healthy and healthier. Article 9 of the Law provides for the introduction of a register of state aid in agriculture and rural development. For the purpose of monitoring this register, the Ministry of Agriculture shall be responsible. This register is of paramount importance not only because of the fact that we will have in one place information about who the State has given on the basis of the support, which will certainly reduce the potential for abuse, but also because of the future obligation to report regularly to the European Commission on our state aids. In my personal opinion, a qualitative newspaper is being introduced which should go in the direction of curbing the grey economy and achieving a higher order in the agricultural product market, given that the way and conditions of sale and how to keep records of the sale of its own agricultural products produced in family holdings will be prescribed in future by the rules to be adopted by the Minister of Agriculture. The law also provides for a number of other newspapers and solutions that are tailored to the current needs and circumstances related to Croatian agriculture, of which I will mention only a few. Therefore, users are defined to support gas oil consumption, which is in line with the Excise Taxation Act, a chapter relating to institutional support is fully adapted to our new institutional changes that took place in the meantime. The ministry is designated as the authority responsible for issuing, overseeing and withdrawing accreditation to the paying agency. A system of agricultural accounting data shall be introduced, etc. Finally, I would also like to say that I will personally support the amendment proposed by Ms. Dragica Zgrebec on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, and I will also tell Mrs. Chuhnil that it is true that the additional activities proposed by this amendment are significantly more flexible than in the Republic of Croatia, and that the Committee on Agriculture has been able to go in this direction that, in the future, family farms in rural areas can deal with additional activities which will not be prescribed by rigorous regulations, but the approach to such activities will be significantly more flexible in the future. Here and finally, I will personally support the adoption of the Agriculture Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44144	Thank you very much. Next, an esteemed colleague, Dragutin Bodakoš, applied for the debate. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Followed by a debate by counterpart Romane Jerkovic. She's not here either. Next, a colleague, Marijana Petir, applied for the debate. She's just arrived, so here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Surely, the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture is one of the most important laws for me as a representative of the Croatian Peasant Party. Personally, it brings numerous newspapers when it comes to harmonising Croatian legislation with EU legislation. But for this reason, this Agriculture Act is important in that segment when we talk about introducing order into the agricultural product market itself, in a clear definition of the establishment of a paying agency and taking over some of its important roles. What I particularly consider important is that finally agriculture is defined by strategic activity in the Republic of Croatia and that it takes on dimensions that are not only closely related to agricultural production and the market for agricultural products, but that this applies to both social and environmental aspects, but above all to food production and the survival of our Croatian villages. I think we should put that emphasis on food production, because agricultural producers today face a number of challenges. It is certain that in the Republic of Croatia, more than 170 thousand family economies await a major challenge for Croatia's entry into the European Union. And my view that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we as representatives must stand firm behind them and help them in these processes. Just when we are talking about a segment of agricultural holdings in the Republic of Croatia, I would like to highlight one interesting point, since I have recently asked a representative question, where I have requested a report on the 10 largest exporters and exporters of agricultural products in the Republic of Croatia. It is interesting that these are also the mahogany of large companies which also receive very generous money from the state budget in the form of direct payments, i.e. direct support. In this regard, I also made a specific proposal to the Ministry of Agriculture, which is to make a kind of analysis of those who import agricultural products from other countries and those agricultural products that we have in Croatia and thus directly endanger our Croatian agricultural economies, and I have suggested that one clause be introduced for such large importers of agricultural products or the abolition of the total removal of support or reduction of support. Those who do not contribute to their business when it comes to the agricultural segment of the survival of Croatian agricultural holdings which do not contribute to the creation of a domestic Croatian agricultural product, and collect such large amount of money from the budget, should, in my opinion, be excluded from that budget and must be subject to strict regulation, therefore, to the means to which they are due. So I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State to consider this proposal of mine, because today we're talking about a complete section of agriculture. I know it's also about some other laws and customs laws, not only on the Agriculture Act or the Agricultural Support Act, but it seems worth talking about, because all the good laws we're making, and a lot of them we've just passed with the agricultural segment are going to fall into the water if we don't put in order the situation on the ground. So I think this is one of the priorities that I think is also the priority of setting up a farm land agency. We discussed this in this Croatian Assembly and discussed and passed the law. The agency was supposed to live with 1. 1. 2010 We know that according to the Law on Agricultural Land, the municipalities and cities will no longer be able to do so with 1. 1. dispose of agricultural land. We also know that we had a program with the Swedish government that trained people in 9 Croatian counties who should be the basis of the future agency. And I think it would be extremely bad if those people who are trained and have enough knowledge ended up on the road. And secondly, I think it would be bad if the law we passed as a Croatian Parliament were not respected. Why am I saying that? Because there is no systematic development of agricultural production unless the rural family economies come to visit the agricultural land. And the fact is that despite all the efforts made in this area today, it is not all done properly and that we have over a million hectares of processing, not processed agricultural areas that need to be put into operation, and that is because of food production. The foundation of one country’s sovereignty is, above all, certain food production. Our people know how to do it, they have the capacity to do it. I think so, and through the measures the Ministry of Agriculture has been implementing here lately, our goal is also to achieve this self-sufficiency. So I appeal, of course, that through the laws that are good and that we are bringing, we should insist on their implementation, because we seem to be falling very often on this test. I would also like to warn of one segment of the Agriculture Act, which is a segment relating to the Green Report. My opinion that the Green Report is a valuable document, which should still be discussed by representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I know that this has been extended through previous discussions and that, for years now, this segment has been discussed here in the Parliament, that very often complaints are coming in which, in fact, from the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this green report has not been delivered to the Parliament, regardless of the obligation, but I do not think that it is a wise provision to delete such an obligation from the law and avoids it. The Ministry of Agriculture has enough professional and capable people, and I believe that, with all these databases you have established, you can very well prepare a report that parliamentary representatives have the right not only to see, but to say their opinions about it and in some way to control what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing and how it works when it comes to agricultural policy itself in the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that through this Law on Agriculture and those laws waiting for us, which is the regulation of the fishery product market and through the amendments to the Agricultural Support Act, this whole story of harmonising agricultural legislation with that of the European Union is kind of being circled. And of course it's on the one hand that I'm really looking forward to. On the other hand, what I want to ask as a question is whether we have prepared our agricultural producers except in this legislative sense and in the real sense of entering the European Union because it would be bad for our producers to simply receive certain instructions through the law without being able to respect it in reality. I think we should put a much greater emphasis on their education to help them in that segment to be ready and to apply to the funds that are here as we have heard from Minister Cobankovic open to Croatia, in which there is a lot of money for smart projects. I want to warn here that the agricultural producer himself is not able to deal with agricultural production and still write such projects and that it would be good for the Ministry of Agriculture to establish its advisory units on the ground that would help them in that part. Here, so much in the context of this individual debate. Of course, I will support the adoption of this Agriculture Act by asking you to take into account these proposals that I have made because I think they can help preserve domestic production, improve the competitiveness of our products and the survival of Croatian villages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44146	Thank you very much. Next, it follows the basis of a statement by a distinguished counterpart Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44147	Thank you very much. Namely, as colleagues pointed out and it has been written in the introduction of this proposal of the law since the adoption of the Agricultural Law, its application has been complete for eight years. So, one time in which as much as we may be at this point unhappy with the change in structure and the level of production and with the results we have achieved in agriculture, there have been major changes. Today, agriculture is viewed as entrepreneurship. Manufacturers also become aware of the roles and knowledge and professions in production, structural reforms in agriculture have been launched, they are ongoing, thousands of new hectares of vineyards, orchards, olive groves have been planted and new livestock farms have been built especially dairy. We've only had an increase of 100 million gallons of milk in the last few years. Steps were made to use biofuels. Today, there is more and more talk about branding, especially our traditional indigenous products, is about protecting them. It also sharpened in the area of food safety and quality. There we implemented a lot about both the hygienic package and the white book, and reform in general a turn in food safety policy. Then, animal health supervision was increased, and an accredited paying agency was established. So, when viewed during this one period of eight years, huge shifts were made. No matter what, we're still a big food importer. We are still not satisfied with neither the structure of production nor the technological level of production, but Croatia is still in agriculture taking into account those inherited problems especially when it comes to land policy, extensive production we had, low technological level, etc. Significant shifts were made after all. Also, we will, there have been remarks here from colleagues that there are constantly some changes, additions, constantly changing support. This is also likely to continue by joining the European Union. Namely, however profitable, competitive, advanced, highly technological, etc. in relation to all other sectors, it will always, because of the inexplicability of demand for agricultural and food products, but also because agriculture is concerned with a large number of populations and that each country has an interest in keeping the population in the country, in some ways to preserve those areas, etc. It will always be when agriculture is a combination of both the planned and the market economy. In any case, one particular concern of the state, and this is not a Croatian speciality, which is something the most advanced countries or agricultural powers face. When we talk about this law of adapting legislation to the European Union and the European Union's general meaning for Croatian agriculture. It should only be said in the negotiation process that these are certainly the most complex and complex negotiations, that there were around 50,000 pages of legislation in play, any regulations, their sublegal acts, etc., that currently in the European Union more than 40% of the funds, so the European Union budget is allocated to agriculture. This is, therefore, one area that is certainly the most complex in the European Union, and I will give some examples to see that agricultural policy has changed from year to year in the European Union, particularly through a system of support and incentives. What the European Union met there at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s was surpluses in production, so large quantities of products, surpluses with which the European Union has come into trouble to store them, or to ensure that the surplus of these products does not come to the market so as not to stabilise it, and not to question the income or income of its producers. The second thing she met is the GATT issue, or the World Trade Organisation, in particular that of the Uruguay Round cycle where the support system negotiations occurred and where the decision has been made to reduce subsidies on the domestic market, that import duties must be reduced, that export subsidies must be reduced, that the aid must be converted from production to what we know to say to the green basket, so horizontal support. Therefore, these events conditioned that there was the first reform package in the European Union in '92. A year. Therefore, at that time the European Union gave up these aid per product and went to a hectare and to the throat to reduce production. Secondly, we have a 2,000th agenda where new things are coming again, so support is conditioned through the cross-completion system, so multiple conditionality, means that the animal welfare system, environmental protection, quality, etc. Therefore, support is directly linked to these other conditions. And then, in 2003, it was partly also caused by a high level of production, because it should not be forgotten that the European Union is the largest importer of food, but also the largest exporter of food after the United States, therefore in any case agricultural power, and that these unique incentives by farms applied since 1.1.2006, have sought to ensure sustainable development, thus reducing production, but increasing its quality, increasing environmental care, animal welfare, food safety, etc. And today we are actually in front of a model of European agriculture that could be aware that it includes promoting the interest of the entire rural area as a unique economic but environmental and social environment. And where does our problem arise? In fact, if we had entered the European Union there in 2000 with such a structure of agriculture, with such a technological level in agricultural production, with the quantities that we have produced, it would indeed be a huge problem for our farmers, but also for our country as a whole. Therefore, during this very period where we have increased support, there is a constant resistance that should increase support. It was due because we had to do what the Union had to do back in the '90s, which is with direct support, so by paying per kilogram, per hectare, by throat, etc., to maximise production to the extent that it would come to the level of the European Union producers. But now we are entering that second phase where we are one step ahead of the European Union and where we need to adapt the system because we are going to enter these unique farm incentives tomorrow and we need to be able to cope in this system. So it is also very important to establish and accredit the paying agency because we know these incentives that we did not have quality control over this period, or we did not have the incentive control system set up at the level of the European Union countries. It is clear that our agricultural inspections at a limited number of samplings, etc., could not quality control the support and that information we already had, so for example. in Slovenia, around 70% of the incentives that have not been properly paid, half of them fraud, half of them that farmers have failed to meet the requirements correctly, etc. Therefore, even in this law, and otherwise, the point is right on the Payment Agency because it is a large amount of money, and it is also not only of the state but also of the one we will get from the budget of the European Union. We are particularly interested in this money because in the pre-accession period we are now taking money as help, but in this second phase when we become a member of the European Union then it will be part of our money, from our VAT, from our taxes, from our customs duties, and it is clear that it is an interest to test the system, adapt to that time when we will be a member of the European Union and when we will participate in the common budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44148	Thank you very much. We have two reported replicas. First of all, colleague Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44149	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here is my colleague Kovacevic pointed out that it was a good measure to increase incentives and I agree with his findings, because if we want food production to be our strategic interest then we must certainly provide sufficient financial resources. Of course, through agricultural policy, we also need to create conditions under which our agriculture will be oriented in the long term in order to be sustainable and I think that we have done quite well in this segment. What certainly does not satisfy me is the fact that there are indeed great ones who are rich at the heart of small ones and that we should certainly bring order into this area. A few years ago, it seemed that everything could be bought on the world market, and then it happened that there was no thought to achieve self-sufficiency in food production, but the latest developments such as the global crisis and the lack of fuel and terrorism and unsustained globalisation, and of course climate change that today are the top topic, have a significant impact on agriculture. In the first order of strategic interests of a country, they put food security, and I think it must be the basic segment of our agricultural policy, and to begin to appreciate those people who are engaged in this food production, and these are our Croatian peasants who, apart from their food products, protect our Croatian space. If one Austria, Germany, Switzerland or other countries can support those people who live in rural areas just because they live there, because they keep that space, then there's no growth of schizo, the country is being processed. So that space is cultured, smoke from the chimney is visible, bread is roasted in the oven. If they can call these people the guardians of space, then I think we can do it, too, and in that sense we need to strengthen our agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44150	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44151	Well, I think that we are all agreeable about it at last, so we can observe this period of eight years of the Agriculture Act since it was passed, its application, that we had to increase support, increase production in the Republic of Croatia, but here we are now entering this stage where we simply have to train the system so that we can withdraw as much funds from the European Union funds. And we see that this year we have also reduced direct support, so with sectoral support for agriculture by 600, 700 million kuna, but also that we have secured in the budget a domestic component so that from the European Union funds, right from the title of agriculture, we can withdraw around 740 million kuna. And that's how we did one more thing. We have abolished this regulation, or the ministry has withdrawn the capital investment rule where it has also stopped such co-financing because it simply wants to get users to run for EU programmes where they must clearly give more effort but it is also more quality control and that money is certainly more targeted. It is controlled throughout the process. And if that remains so, then that money is obtained only after the realization of the project which is equally important as evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44152	Thank you very much. And more replicas of esteemed colleague Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44153	I agree with a respected colleague that support in agriculture should have been increased. Unfortunately, when we changed the model in 2001, we applied it at the wrong time in the wrong place. 2001. The European Union had a hyper-production of food. She went to quality and income incentives. We're applying the same incentives to destroyed agriculture, to agriculture that was in transition simply got completely different effects. The fact is, there's progress, but not enough. If you look at the statistics, we've increased the production of some 5% by statistical data, some 10%, etc. Therefore, we did not significantly increase. Without increasing production there is no productivity increase, and it is equally very difficult to look for competitiveness within such production. Therefore, we should have used the time for more production first, because the quantity can give birth to quality, and then, based on quality, reroute resources both towards income and all of that. We end up spending huge resources in incentives, and we can't say that we still have satisfactory results in agriculture, at least that's what agricultural signals are. Well, obviously, someone's been going through the wrong data then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44154	Thank you. Reply to the replica of his colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44155	Well, I wouldn't agree with this finding if we had similar or the same support as the European Union had in 2000 let's take until this beginning of 2006 when it started... or payment uniquely per farm. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] In fact, at that moment they gave up these aids per product quantity, i.e. no longer supported those liters of oil, kilograms of wheat, etc. rather than develop support that was multiplely conditional. So, the environment, forcing rural development. So, as one concern for the entire rural area. They also strengthened this quality system food safty etc. However, this part of the quality strengthening was part of the response to increasingly aggressive competition from third countries that threatened the European Union market, because, due to the Agreement with the World Trade Organisation, they had to lower customs duties, reduce subsidies both to exports and to support. And on the other hand, aggressive competition especially from these Third World agricultural powers, I don't know from Brazil, South Africa, etc. The ones who threatened there went to the quality standards they were protecting, trying to protect their market. And as for our support, they still had to be product-oriented and production-oriented because we had to increase. But I also disagree that we haven't changed and that we haven't begun to change the structure of production. We can't ignore the fact that it's been raised to thousands of acres of new permanent plantations, that cattle farms have been built, etc. which is not the structure that we had, that is, the desired structure in production because it is highly profitable and gives competitiveness to our producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44156	And the final application for an individual hearing, dear colleague Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. A few days ago, we were in Strasbourg at a meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the European Union and the Croatian Parliament, and there was no meeting in Strasbourg, so we stayed in Berne, 30 kilometers away from Strasbourg. And the value of going to Bernea is that we're driving from Berney to Strasbourg by bus asking ourselves in one ironic wit of what these people live on. We didn't see any factories standing on the left or right. So we say what these people live on, but this country is so worked up, these agricultural goods are so cultured that it can be seen that they can very well live on agriculture and without any chimney in that space. So food is one of the strategic activities of the economy and therefore agriculture is something that can lead to an economy developing. And I think that's the way you can do it with us. In this respect, full support for any effort to improve the legislative frameworks of agriculture and incentives that would result. With that in mind, we have already dealt with the problem of solving the area in a way that we went towards less agricultural areas being united by keeping in mind the necessary incentives for agriculture. We have already proposed and adopted, based on the PDO, that every 3 hectares of a family holding registered as an economic agricultural activity be allowed to build a building of 200 square meters, including not only economic content but also a residential space. So, one concern from the point of view was absolutely long ago and during the last term, and so in this term, that agriculture would not receive certain incentives from that side. But what I would like to talk about today, and what I think is the lack of this law, which is the subject of which the legislator has not addressed at the moment, is the fact that he is not dealing with everything that represents the agricultural area, which does not deal with what is one economic activity from day to day more and more developed and economic activity. And I'm sorry that in the Croatian Parliament there is no possibility that some pictures can be shown, some projections to be made because one image of what is said would illustrate much more than the words can be shown. Let me show you the farm... which are created and which cannot be registered or maintained as such. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With that in mind, recently at a joint session and at the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, we also made a topical point of environmental protection that we discussed on the issue of turning a fragile field into a agricultural area. A breach that was not economically useful at all, and a debris that is actually part of the Croatian forests, apparently. But it turns into agricultural areas and represents a new created value. There's even an association of debris that covers somewhere around 2,000 acres of already converted terrain from nothing to anything. Actually turning stone into gold. And that's where we discovered the problems, that it might work better, that it might be more effective. First of all, with the right concession of people who have received these grounds to process and convert them into agricultural areas, they are mostly vineyards or olive groves. That the concession contract actually did not get the right to build on these grounds facilities in the function of such an economy, to prepare tractors, other devices that serve there, trafostations so that they could build a storage of tools, wardrobes of people who work there, etc. Because it's done in terrains that are very far from any inhabited area, on hairy terrains, steep terrains that are not easy to reach at all. The question of concession is I mean the question of contract and probably future contracts can be concluded in a way that can be given the right planting, that and the right to build objects. But there is a problem that such construction is not foreseen by the Law on Spatial Planning, or by the spatial plans that allow it. For this reason should not be in this law, but in the accompanying laws on spatial planning foresee this possibility, because it is simply not possible... when drawing up a spatial plan which the land will be awarded in a concession and whether someone will have a need for it at the principle level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, in any case, it's interesting and valuable what we've always said so far, that spatial plans practically change agricultural land into building land. But in this case, it's a pretense, a pretense that leads to something from nothing. Therefore, it would also be interesting to establish the possibility to allow one and one and a certain tourist offer along with such facilities, as is possible throughout Europe. But what's key to all this expensive, so this could happen, is reinterpreting these areas from forest to agricultural areas. Because as long as they are treated as forest surfaces, and not as agricultural surfaces, then all that is provided for agricultural surfaces is not allowed for those that are still held as forest surfaces. So, it is practically one condition I would say to an unrecognized agricultural area, but with very representative, possible representative results, which can be witnessed by the most excellent Croatian winemakers, that I don't make them an ad here in the Assembly, but which you know and photographs that can prove at any point how good it looks and how it gets more and more quality. So I think in this sense I would recommend a debate on the subject of conversion, the transfer from one pocket to another pocket of something that represents Croatia, i.e. the property of the Croatian state in every respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44158	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. In conclusion, Secretary of State, would he like to speak? Yeah. Mr. Kraljičković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44159	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies. I thank you for the debate, for your contribution with your proposals, your remarks, so we can say in part and criticism, which will certainly help agriculture and us, but also to you. The bill that you have before you has respected, I have also said in the introduction, all the reality that has existed in Croatia for the past 8 years. He also respected the reality that is in our environment, meaning also in the European Union. It's embedded in it. The experiences that we have had and have not implemented certain provisions of the law simply do not need to be repeated if they cannot be implemented, because if they come with a coalition with some other laws. Here was also an observation that has been done again since 2001, including a new law. Well, I'll just go over it for a second. The Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, which is on the websites, provides for new institutions and others... the new rules, which are not only in compliance with EU legislation, but also national legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's exactly what's going on. So we will soon establish Croatia's agricultural chamber, and we had, we established by law and began to work at the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village. The paying agency will soon also start working as a special unit, and the Croatian Agricultural Agency, which is also a new institution intended primarily for farmers to exercise their rights, above all to support them. We can say that at this time there is a lot of work done on institutions, that the administrative capacity of the ministry and its institutions is strengthened, says that in the pre-accession programme of CARDS, PHARE, IPA, the Ministry of Agriculture is the largest national user. Nearly 50m euros of free funds are provided by employees and experts of the Ministry of Agriculture and strengthen the capacity of their own, but also build certain capacities needed among other things by border crossings to enable later entry and implementation of all customs-related activities. When it comes to laws, I'll just remind myself that it was passed among other things by the Food Act, the Country Act, the Support Act as new laws in the meantime. And one of the new documents I have in front of me is called, among other documents is the production consumption balance, the assessment of the self-sufficiency of the agricultural food products of the Republic of Croatia, which was done for the period 2000 - 2008. And for those of us to repeat, we also have a strategy that was published in 2002, and so that document exists and is publicly available to everyone. When there was a talk here about the Green Report, that's what we'll call it popular because that's what you've called it, we've proposed a proposal that we consider to be the most practical, most beneficial for all who are interested in agriculture and the situation in agriculture and possibly the impact on agricultural policy. And that means that the Ministry of Agriculture is making a mandatory document, bringing it in and publishing it in "The People's News" so that he's public, he's available to everyone. We know, you know better than I do, that the Croatian Parliament can always put on the agenda any one wants a theme such as agriculture or something related to agriculture. So we're holding that disputed about this that... Brings the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's always possible to discuss it at the Parliament, and we think this is more practical, pragmatic and all the more accessible documents, that way. When it comes to the support of agriculture and the village, then I would like to draw your attention that somehow it is our goal of the OECD where it is approximately 1.3% of GDP... in that GDP, it participates with 1.3% of the support for agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the EU, it's about 1%, we've come to this level of about 1%, so we still have room for increased support for agriculture and we haven't used it too much so far. When it comes to support there may be little the same, the clarification a little further, they are defined as supporting income for farmers to carry out agricultural activities. It is difficult to say that the direct link between support and competitiveness in agriculture is. In that section relating to structural measures, investment support measures, they directly influence competitiveness. However, the majority of direct production aid is not directly linked to the competitiveness of agriculture but is related to the income of farmers, with the importance of agriculture and the reasons for which one deals. And that's how you can see it with us and in the world that the growing number of farmers is becoming less and less young want to deal with agriculture. Regardless of all the support we have, and almost all the countries in the world have put in place support except, they're almost gone, New Zealand and Australia in the tracks. When it comes to our support, too, we can say that it uses them in accordance with the law. So, no matter how much anyone gets, he gets according to the law, and when it's said here, it's also said that in the EU support gets villages by the economy, that means that every hectare contributes to support. Thus, it is not particularly difficult for us to have the support of a farmer for a hectare. When it comes to imports, I would also like a few sentences here, there is no need to spend all of us already know and we heard, but what you may not have noticed last year's exports of agricultural food products from Croatia was a billion $322 million. The first on the product list was $171m sugar. The second is, or further, tuna in the fourth place is about 40 million dollars. When we add that up then we get about $210 million that these are 2 products, and so a billion and $200 million are other agricultural food products. So what we've heard here can be explained, so these are the specific data that speak, which clarify imports and exports to our agricultural products. When this was about veterinary expertise, so this law above all is the law... for agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must remind all of you that the Parliament has passed the Veterinary Act, the Animal Welfare Act, the Food Act, and these laws have the greatest advantage of the veterinary profession in the separation of certain jobs. And I hold that we would have significantly rebelled our veterinary private cells if the agricultural service that was free had dealt with their part of the business. I therefore believe that, for this reason, we did the same thing among other reasons by stating in the law how it stands in the legal proposal. In the case of organic agriculture, I have to make it right a little bit, here is the representative lady, since 2001, as the law has been passed since then can be talked about organic agriculture in Croatia. So we can talk about a period of 7 years, or 8, not 15 years. So in that period we came from 0 hectares to 10 thousand hectares, so here we have made a significant shift in that part of agricultural production and about 700 economies are now engaged in organic agricultural production in accordance with the law and regulations. What we should consider, however, when we talk about agriculture, in its defence, but unfortunately in its damage, and these are the basic disasters in agriculture. In the period from 2000 to 2000, total confirmed damages from natural disasters in agriculture were 9 and a half billion kuna. This is the value of one annual purchase of all agricultural products. We must also not ignore it, I say, because it is a very large number and, unfortunately, for agriculture, it is very difficult and problematic for those who deal with it. When we look at the data that we have heard here in part from official state statistics that is consistent with EUROSTAT and European statistics, then I will be happy to share with you some data that, normally everyone will catch up with some information that holds that is useful and important to him but when is this simplified in agriculture that we are counting specifically? We count the agricultural holdings and they are numerable because they are registered... Only the last two years have enrolled 20,000 new economies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today we have 190 thousand economies enrolled in the Agricultural Economy Register. So, the number of people enrolled and those who want to deal with or deal with agriculture is on the rise. They use the agricultural area, during this period, meaning from 2000 to 2009 and in 2008 the increase in agricultural land use is 10%. So the increase in the number of increases is agricultural land. And what is also very important in this period of statistics notes an increase in the gross value of agricultural production of 9%. And of that, the plant is 5%, and 16% is livestock. So we can talk about not breaking or falling but these are concrete figures that show unsatisfactory yet noticeable and noticeable indicators of growth. Why unsatisfactory? Because you said self-sufficiency is our very important tactical goal, among other things. When it comes to what's measurable and what you've all mentioned here, and it's not just about the yield and the climate, it's the plantation. Fruit trees, vineyards, olive groves. During the period 2000 to 2008, orchards grew by 25%, vineyards by 19%, olive grove by 31%. And from the orchards and apples, I'm only out by 53%. If a qualitative shift is unsatisfactory, we want everyone to be better, to happen and to happen, for example, says the data in olive groves we have an increase in surface area by 31%, and an increase in olive production by 122%, which is about new technologies, is about a new way of growing and a new way of processing. If we don't talk about wine now, for 8,000 new economies, you're listed in the register of grape and wine producers of quality, etc. is on the rise, and in milk we had about 20%, today we have about 85% of the EU's quality of total milk produced. And milk production increased by 36% in that period. So we're talking about quantitative and qualitative indicators that we can say are the result of investments in agriculture, but also the overall agricultural policy, regardless of the government, that is, in this period that I am now presenting to you the data. What's also important when it comes to investment. Storage capacity primarily for the most valuable type of production in fruit growing code in the dilapidated area, it is the production of apples primarily in the refrigeration plant. From 2003 to today, some 30,000 tonnes of new capacity building have been built. ... 30 million euros. So if we now have HBOR data related to the activity of total agriculture, then about 700 million kuna in the period when the operational programmes were launched was engaged in agriculture and the most favourable agricultural loans so far from the HBOR programme, i.e. the operational programmes got about 427 economies. From cattle, from years of pestilence, from pigs, from vegetables. When I can tell you a few more details about agriculture to be a picture, not to beautify, but to make the picture clearer, it's only the last four years. Or 2008, 2005. So the increase in value of the purchase of agricultural products is 57%, and of that, when we look at it now... the economy, they have increased the buy-in by 90% and the rest of the companies and about 40%. So concrete figures show us, after all, the growth of agricultural production and the overall agricultural activity. With regard to the proposals and observations you made here, related to the land and the rest. I'm counting on them to be very useful, and I'm sure we'll respect them as much as possible. What you'd end up saying. This law is a roof law and it regulates principles and relations in other laws. But what is particularly difficult for Croatian agriculture or a particular challenge on the other hand is the structure of those dealing with agriculture. Nearly two-thirds of the total number of farmers has up to three hectares of agricultural land, and only about 4% more than 20 hectares of farm-owned land. That's exactly the challenge for all of us. And that challenge, perhaps here someone said it, I didn't hear it, so I will repeat, have recognized our work by looking at the ministries and your work as Parliament and Croatian Government and the European Commission when it proposed in its report a future envelope for agriculture and for the village for Croatia. So 373m euros were planned for the first pillar of production support, and for the second pillar, rural development measures, 352m euros. When we add that up, it's almost twice as much as we invest in agriculture today. And this means that Croatian agriculture, that the problems of Croatian agriculture are recognised and that they are well presented to both the European Commission and the European Union. And that a common contribution is certain in that of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44160	Thank you very much. We have three applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44161	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. So I'm correcting the wrong quote when you said the green report would be bigger when it was published in the National Journal. I think it's the wrong quote. I am correcting this false allegation of yours, because according to this current debate and everything that is happening, a green report that has never been given to the Parliament at all, certainly in a more quality way his debate would be in a Parliament that would follow both the public and in which concrete answers could certainly be given. And what's going to be published, it's going to be published somewhere or not. Another correction, looking for veterinary cells would rebel if, perhaps, this refers to that amendment that I gave to the advisory service if we could establish veterinarians. I think it's also correcting that false assumption of yours, because it's precisely from veterinary cells and veterinarians that the idea that veterinarians are also dealing with the advisory service, and I think the explanation when you refuse that amendment will give you much broader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44162	Further to correct the incorrect allegations, colleague Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44163	Thank you. Well, my colleague Bodakosh partially corrected this state secretary's quote, which is that information through the National Newspaper is more effective on the green report. Maybe more efficiently through some daily press, maybe more efficiently through some kind of radio station, but that's not about efficiency. It's about a minimum of decency. The Ministry of Agriculture manages a sector of vital and important importance for this country and has the money of taxpayers. The Croatian Parliament brings a strategy and I think it would be a minimum of decency for the Croatian Ministry and Government to submit through the green report the results of spending on taxpayers' money that are not small in ten years 25 billion kuna. Another correction of the incorrect quote, which is what we are told is the financial envelope of the 600-euro circus and something, 700 million euros. That's right. However, the second question is how much we are trained and according to our calculations at the ministry at this point we are not able to take half of it unless we take action urgently. Therefore, it is not true that Croatian agriculture, it will have the potential to use 700 but as much as it will really depend on your work and I think this green report can give an assessment of the efficiency, your efficiency and for the benefit of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44164	Thank you. And colleague of mine heard the rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44165	Obviously, we all reacted to the inaccuracy of a fellow secretary who said it would be more accurate if the report was only in the People's Newspaper. So far, the report should have been submitted to the Parliament and then published in the People's Newspaper. Now we're just avoiding the Parliament for not seeing the reasons, but the publication in "The People's News" has been so far and it's never been done for it that the ministry should be responsible for it. Secondly, I wanted to correct your incorrect claim that you were de facto correcting me. In 95, lectures on organic production began, organic production started. The second is that it only began to be more serious in 2001, but it began to be introduced for more than 95 years, thus for more than 15 years. Correction of refrigerators, of course, is a good thing that we built so much in the coolant but to invest in the most expensive freezer, it took some chillers that could hold fruit and vegetables for five, six months without expensive freezers, and only for the smaller percentage we need in the second half of the year should we go to the most expensive regimes and the most expensive coolers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44166	Thank you very much. This is what we've done with the corrections. I'm closing this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44167	We're going to vote on the final proposal of the Agriculture Act, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 469. The debate is closed, amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, representative Dragutin Bodakoš. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Mr. Josip Kraljičković, State Secretary. Here you go. The Committee on Local Regional Self-Government on Article 26, please refer to Article 26. So, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44168	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives, parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the promoter, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I declare that we do not accept this amendment in order to simplify the process of adopting a green report, we propose that it be brought by the Ministry while the strategy is adopted by the Parliament, or the National Programme for the adoption of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44169	Okay, thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, does he have any? He's gone. We're going to have to come forward with an amendment that the government doesn't accept. Who's in favour of this amendment? On Article 26? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Amendment to Article 15?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44170	Thank you very much. The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44171	This amendment is an integral part of the bill, adopted. Legislative Committee, First Amendment to Article 1?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44173	Thank you. So all the four amendments that are proposed here are accepted by the government. Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And Mr Bodakosh's representative amendments to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44174	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Namely, the Veterinary Act provides for the protection of animals and veterinary services, while this law prescribes advisory services, its work. And in her description, it's not an animal health counselling.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44175	Here you go, Mr. Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44176	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. This explanation given by Mr. Secretary of State shows that he really knows very little about the problem of the work of the veterinary service, in general what veterinary service means and what it should be in the advisory section. And why am I saying that? That is why, when we have at the Lisbon celebration today, when the President of the European Parliament is talking about the fact that to implement the common European agricultural policy is one of the essential things of the whole European community. In our roof of the Agriculture Act, we restrict the possibility of participation in the implementation of agricultural policy and education of our farmers through the advisory service. For example, veterinarians usually work in the public advisory service or in the Croatian advisory service, but in private they could not for these reasons as Mr. Secretary said. However, I ask myself a question, why discriminate on a profession and just narrow down the possibility that this profession will give what it needs to be given on the education of agricultural producers. Since we are also swearing that we should educate agricultural producers as much as possible so that we can withdraw certain funds from the funds. Multidisciplinaryity is usually one of the characteristics of each advisory section. And I think that this restriction of thinking in the Ministry of Agriculture leads to the rejection of any proposal that goes precisely to improve and improve the quality of education of our farmers, resulting in this very poor state of this branch of the economy. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44177	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for this amendment. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the final proposal of the Agriculture Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority of votes, 94 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and one against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44178	And today we're planning on still processing the next point. - Final draft law supplementing the Law on conditions for obtaining the right to age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 473 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure. According to Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. As always in such an occasion, the amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. Reports from the board's session were received as well. Would the proposing representatives like to take the floor? Yeah. State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44179	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We propose additions to the Law on conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension of workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos. The basic intensity of both the Government and the Parliament in 2007 was to provide, of course, for workers who during their jobs were professionally exposed to asbestos and thus in a way that allowed them to acquire age pension rights under more favourable conditions. In particular, they were and are still covered workers with 50 years of life for men, 45 years of life for women and 25 years of cumulatively viewed insurance training provided that they worked on jobs directly professionally exposed to asbestos, or in another situation workers who turned 53 and 48 years of age respectively, 30 years of insurance training and provided they worked for at least 20 years with an employer who used asbestos in his production, or during which they were exposed to asbestos. In the implementation and application of the law, it has been observed that there are also a number of workers who, during their work with a legal person, e.g. in "Solonit" or "Plobest" have suffered from asbestos-induced diseases, that this disease has been identified as a solution to the recognition of the professional disease of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Health Protection at Work. However, they do not and do not meet the conditions of age or the completed period of insurance prescribed by law. We therefore propose this need to enable these insurance companies to be granted age pension rights under more favourable conditions under this very bill. We also propose that beneficiaries of pensions achieved under the law under conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension increase that pension by 26%. In particular, pensions made by the application of this law are determined under the Pension Insurance Act, thus equating the level of pensions of the beneficiaries of the pension allowance under the Pensions Supplement Act under the Pension Insurance Act. So far, speaking of concrete figures, the life and number of people covered by the current law so far, we have 102 "Salonite" workers in the bankruptcy of "Plobesta" who made an age pension under the current law and what we estimate will increase the number of pensioners from next year to 220 for 2010, 230 for 2011, 240 for 2012 and 250 in 2013. These are the projections made for the purposes of this proposal. In addition, the total number of pensioners under the applicable law is estimated to be about 20 workers and “Plobest” and “Salonite” who have suffered from asbestos disease and under the applicable law have not been entitled to obtain an age pension under this law. So it's a circle of insurance that would also increase the pension by 26%. In addition to this proposal, the budget has also been provided. Of the total expenditure, the increased expenditure resulting from the bill would be one million and a half kuna for next year with a projection of one million and 900 thousand kuna in 2011 and 2.2 million kuna in 2012. We therefore propose, taking into account the extension of the rights or circle of insurance, that the Parliament discusses and adopts this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44180	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague of Tomljanović's? No, I don't. My colleague Kunst? Yeah. Here you go. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44181	Thank you very much, Your Honor. State Secretary, fellow MPs. On 25 November, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on terms of acquisition of the age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. In his opening statement, the proposaler's representative pointed out that the adoption of this law would extend the circle of insurance companies that could achieve an age pension under the Law on conditions for obtaining the ageing pension of workers of professionally exposed asbestos and would increase their pension by 26%, as well as improve their material and social position. Furthermore, the proposed addition of Article 2 of the current law allows workers who have suffered from a professional disease caused by asbestos, which has been established by the decision of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Health Protection at Work, the exercise of the right to an age pension under more favourable conditions under this law, regardless of age and completed period of insurance. In a fragmented part of the proposal, he explained to the committee members that it is a special regulation under which pension rights are acquired under more favourable conditions so that these users are not subject to the Pensions Add-on Act, which can amount to up to 27%, whereas in this law, it is proposed for all users and those who have already obtained the right to retire and future beneficiaries to increase pension by 26%. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Supplements to the Law on conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44182	Thank you very much. We're closing the debate on behalf of the board. We're going to a club debate. I ask my colleague Kunst to take a word on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club according to his report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44183	Thank you very much. I say hello again, Vice President. Government representatives, fellow agents. The law on conditions for obtaining age pensions of workers professionally exposed to asbestos came into force in August 2007, and the purpose of the law was to provide workers who were exposed to asbestos in their workplace, either directly or indirectly. The law covers workers with over 50 years of life for men and 45 years of life for women, 25 years of insurance training and 10 years of work on jobs that have been directly exposed to asbestos. Those workers who have been indirectly exposed to asbestos, who have spent 53 years of their lives for men, or 48 years of life for women and 30 years of insurance training can also, under more favourable conditions, exercise the right to retire under this law. During the application of this law, it was observed that a number of workers worked in a production that used asbestos as raw materials, such as "Salonite d.d." in bankruptcy and "Plobest." Workers of these companies have suffered from asbestos-induced diseases recognised by the solution and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, health protection at work. But since under the current law, all workers do not meet the conditions for retirement, especially because of age and completed insurance, it was necessary to change this law. So far, what we've heard from the secretary of state, the secretary of state, so far is 102 employees of "Salonita d.d." and "Plobesta" earned the right to an age pension, and by passing the supplement in the law, the circle of insurance will be expanded somewhere, as it is said, to 250 users of pensions made under this law by 2013. In order to improve the material and social position of this sensitive group of pensioners, a 26% pension increase has been proposed for all pensioners under the Law on terms of ageing pension of workers of professionally exposed asbestos, since the law came into force, this first law I have spoken of since 7 August 2007, as well as future users under that law. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute will carry out the calculations by 31 March 2010 and determine the new pension level. The Croatian Democratic Community club supported the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44184	Thank you very much. Next up for debate on behalf of the HSS Club, colleague Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44185	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Madam Secretary of State. The Croatian Peasant Party's representative club will support this bill. In fact, knowledge of the possibility of asbestos causing severe and irreversible effects on human health in wider circles of interested people began to stand out before the 1990s and soon became one of the current issues of health protection. After years of patience, politicisation, negotiations and numerous meetings, various committees and working bodies, the efforts of all those who were aware of the dangers posed by asbestos for the health of workers and advocated its ban finally paid off on 26 July 1999 when a written procedure was adopted to mark the end of the use of asbestos in the territory of the Member States of the European Union. The document was supplemented by Annex I of the Dangerous Substances and Preparations Directive, and the prohibition entered into force on 1 January 2005. The same year, the Ministry of Health presents its version of the document of a list of poisons whose production, transport and use are prohibited and thus any production, transport and use of asbestos is prohibited on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. After the entry into force of this ban, a number of problems arise, starting with those related to the survival of companies producing cement-absorbing products, to a number of questions related to compensation for the health of workers in that industry. Thanks to all the charms of privatisation in the Croatian way, privatisation from the early 1990s, and whose tails we feel today, with the usual problems affecting European workers who have been employed in the asbestos industry, we are also busy with the special Oriental-Mediterranean spices of this difficult problem. What exactly am I thinking about? I will introduce you to the review of the events related to the problem of asbestos pollution in the Republic of Croatia. The agony of the company "Salonite", but I also have to mention the company "Plobest" from Ploč, as well as all those shipyards in the Republic of Croatia and workers who were employed there and were, of course, directly influenced by asbestos, starts with the company going bankrupt in 2004. The bankruptcy procedure of the company "Salonite" has been spiced up in every possible and impossible way, and continues today with a clear or cloudy view of the future depending on the position the procedure itself is being observed with. In this section, I will remain in that more cheerful view that the former "Salonite" workers now have thanks primarily to their own personal efforts. I will only mention the activities of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection in solving their problem, including in the part of the support, initiatives for the changes in the existing law in question. But of course, I must mention the involvement of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning as well as the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, which sought to find a way and address the problems of former employees, workers to their satisfaction. Resolved by their employment in the recovery of the factory circle and the "mrvavine coffee" engagement through another legal person is also met and one of the three demands of workers, perhaps the most important one which has somehow solved their existence in due course. The second request of the workers was related precisely to the amendment of this law that we are discussing today. Bearing in mind all the events of this summer and the autumn demands of HUS, the hunger strike of the "Salonite" workers and the engagement of the Prime Minister through a letter that has been obliged to meet the demands of the workers can conclude that these proposed changes are on the trail of the agreed, and we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party support them. At this time of exceptional uncertainty in the labour market, and the level of qualifications of workers with perhaps the most important working capacity due to the long-term exposure to asbestos fibers, their competitiveness in the labour market is not their priority in employment, and their re-employment wanted me to or did not want to admit it is also a risk for the future employer. The solutions proposed by these amendments to the law met the first requirement of "Salonite" workers and was extended to all other workers who worked in factories where asbestos was used as a raw material basis in production. Decisions in addition to Articles one and two shall ensure that all workers covered by this law make a full pension, regardless of age and year of training, and that, in order to achieve those rights, the position to which the Prime Minister has committed himself, will be taken into account the confirmation issued by the bankruptcy administrator and as regards the definition set out in the second paragraph of the first Article of this Act. That part of the law that responds to existential problems, and it's arranged in articles three and four when it's put on paper looks like this. The average pension for people who have been professionally exposed to asbestos is 2530 kuna. The 26% supplement is 657.8 kuna or a total of 3187.8 kuna. The average pension according to the calculation of the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of the Republic of Croatia for September in the Republic of Croatia was 2172.48 kn. When summed up, it can be said that workers who were exposed to asbestos received about 1000 kuna per month more than the average Croatian pensioner. However, only rare workers will be able to enjoy their retirement, and some will unfortunately not experience or experience it. The modern version of the Damak sword is hanging over their lives, which can be shown briefly through the repeated expectation of search results and not exactly the bright future of several hours of waiting in hospital halls, in examinations, treatments, while not forgetting their mental pain while the health condition deteriorates every day without the prospect of improvement. In view of those additional 1% to the maximum 27% referred to in Article 2. The law on the addition of pensions under the Pension Insurance Act to the extent that pensions can still be increased by the basis of a specific law such as this should not constitute an additional burden on the system or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And we're at the HSS Club trying to secure that 1%. Because what does that 1% mean? This means for the worker an average additional 25 kuna and 30 limes or transformed into the basic life needs of 2 kilos of bread and 2 liters of milk per month. Finally, but not least, I also draw attention to the third point of demand of workers who have been linked to the compensation of workers in the same way that the European Union has done. I don't know if the terms are agreed, and the deadline for completion of the deal is getting closer every day, and that's the end of 2009. In this section, I would also refer to the work of the Committee for the Resolution of Rejuvenation Requests for persons who are professionally ill due to asbestos exposure. I again draw attention to the longevity of the procedure for establishing a professional disease due to asbestos exposure, because these procedures really take too long. During the two thematic sessions of the Environmental Protection Committee on the subject of "Embesthetisation of the environment" one of which was held last year, and the second one this year, despite the conclusions of the committee and the rushes that I referred to the commission, no problems have yet been detected which make this work of determination so long-lasting. There is an impression of absolute lack of interest in the problems of people who are professionally exposed to asbestos because they are persons who already have symptoms of disease, and they do not have a lot of time left to live. With the agony associated with their health, they may be added as a type of placebo or a distraction to serve a long and painful process of achieving the right to financial compensation, and this compensation will most likely have to be spent again on the relief of the symptoms of the disease, its own treatment and an increase in the quality of life if they experience its payment. Namely, this weekend I met with former Plobesta employees in Plobesta who told me that 13 people died in asbestos records this year, who did not welcome the resolution of their damage claims, had not even been diagnosed with asbestos disease. So this way, on behalf of the HSS representative, I appeal to the authorities to trade because for that, it's the last moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44186	Thank you. A representative of the SDP, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44187	Dear Vice President, honourable government representatives, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of the presentation on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on conditions for obtaining the right to an old age pension of workers of professionally exposed asbestos, I would like to say that the club of representatives and representatives of the SDP will support the meaning of the adoption of this law, although we believe that not only legal but constitutional rights of workers and workers of professional asbestos in Croatia are not respected to an almost astounding extent. When I wrote a column a few years ago about the problems of the workers and the "Salonite" workers, I compared their case with the mass poisoning of the population of a small California town of Hinkley with the toxic chemical chromium 6, which was used in the nearby energy plant by the PG&E corporation, thus poisoning the underground waters and the environment of Hinkley, and this case was processed in a famous film by Erin Brockovich, director of Steven Soderbergh. To remind Erin Brockovich, a small and inexperienced intern, in the law firm beat the mighty corporation PG&E and fought $333 million worth of compensation for the 634 affected inhabitants of Hinkley. $333 million provided opportunities for the inhabitants of Hinkley, who are treated with malignant tumors, infertility and other serious diseases, to pay adequate health care and treatment that can raise the quality of life and extend life. Although the lawsuit received money to a large number of Hinkley residents unfortunately did not bring back lost health, and many of them even alive, the message of the film is positive. In view of the fact that corporations like the energy giant PG&E are in the first place earning and stockpiling profits, it is certain that what can hit them most is precisely a large fine, and to a certain extent, the loss of so-called. A reputation. Many lawsuits against powerful multinational corporations that are being launched daily in the United States and developed Western states, particularly against the tobacco, chemical and pharmaceutical industries, often result in the payment of millions in damages. But what rights, compensation or moral satisfaction can be expected for the damaged inhabitants of Croatia, a country in which capital owners are often not known and who is responsible for unconscious and immoral business, which endangers the social and life security of citizens. And the case of damaged employees "Salonita", "Plobesta", as well as many Croatian shipyards, in which the problem of professional asbestos disease is the biggest and I would say the strongest, seems to be the possibility of such compensation in Croatia. Despite Article 69. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says everyone has the right to a healthy life, the state provides conditions for a healthy environment, and everyone is obliged as part of their powers and activities to pay particular attention to the protection of the health of people, nature and the human environment and cases of the sick employees "Salonite", "Plobesta", Croatian shipyards, and their also health-threatening families and fellow citizens, it is evident that the Constitution is not respected in practice. Although asbestos associations often warn of the acute problem of "Salonita" close to the densely populated urban area of Split, and require an appropriate reaction from state bodies, it cannot be assumed that Croatian society is not sufficiently interested in this terrible case of deliberate poisoning of a large number of people. From that, I'm afraid, and in the future, we're going to be encased in cases of conscious endangerment of human life, which we're going to look at on film canvas, but unfortunately, we're going to get our shoulders down on domestic sad practice. Why? Because we think that these things happen to someone else, that they're far from us. That's exactly it, except for the moral question, and it's completely wrong. Asbestos is all around us, and asbestos doesn't happen to anyone else, it happens to people around us. Unfortunately, our forecasts have proved true, meaning the 2005 SDP forecasts that favouring the Croatian authorities led by the HDZ tycoon Ćurkovic, which has enabled the import of 900 tonnes of asbestos from Russia, from which thousands of tons of asbestos-containing products were produced in the "Salonite" plant, products that were absurdly and cynically in accordance with then Croatian laws should not be sold, transported, or used in Croatia, so that instead of 900 tonnes of hazardous waste, the state has to resuscitate some even 7 thousand dangerous wastes. This means that the recovery of this decline, as well as the damages to asbestos patients, due to the failure of the state apparatus, is being paid today, and it seems that Croatian taxpayers will pay in the future, not immoral tycoons on the run. The mature evidence of the previous claim is precisely the case of the resolution of "The Salonita" financed by the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency, the funds of the fund filled with different extra-accountary charges, which are paid by polluters and environmental users, which are almost all inhabitants of Croatia who drive and own cars. The same fund, in complete contrast to the provisions of the Fund Act, paid salaries to the "Salonite" workers who again opposed the provisions of the Convention on Safe Treatment of asbestos worked on the recovery of asbestos waste from the "Salonite" factory and the nearby Antwinca. It is unnecessary to say that the stupidity of the state that allowed the paradoxical production of asbestos products to continue in the Salonite probably caused the unforeseeable number of diseases caused by asbestos dust in the employees of the Salonite, their families, positions within 11km of the plant. In addition to the personal tragedies of the sick, this country's stupidity will have a great financial price. Who's gonna pay for that? You can see and see from this bill, again Croatian taxpayers, not immoral tycoons on the run before the Croatian judiciary. According to the Croatian Union Association in Croatia, 8 workers with asbestos die annually. This tragic figure reminds us that the workers of "The Salonita" have not yet fought for compensation for all asbestos patients, and this compensation will most likely amount to around 70,000 euros for between 233 and 179 workers, i.e. the amount between 16.3 or 12.5 million euros, at least how things are now paid by the state, i.e. Croatian taxpayers. But today, in the context of this bill, we are talking about "Salonita" and "Plobesta" workers, the question is what with workers suffering from asbestos in Croatian shipyards, and what with the population of Vranica and Ploč. Namely, people who have never worked with asbestos get sick and unfortunately die of asbestos. Although companies such as PG&E have to pay millions or even billions of dollars of compensation in the United States to the sick after lost court disputes, it is not realistic to expect such a scenario in Croatia. Why? Because the state allowed the production of asbestos products to continue and after their sale, transport and use has been banned, because because of the sleekness of state services, immoral tycoons flee the country, because in Croatia there seems to be no lawyers and lawyers like Erin Brockovich who would work with a lot of enthusiasm on these cases, and because people in Croatia often unfortunately die before they die, and almost never in those rare cases when they get a judicial dispute and a judgment for compensation they actually experience and pay compensation, and this is indeed more than sad and embarrassing for one allegedly legal state whose constitution in Article 69 says that I quote everyone has a right to a healthy life, the state provides conditions for a healthy environment. And the case of workers and workers who suffer from asbestos, we see how much the state respects its own constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44188	Thank you. HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44189	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here's my predecessors said a lot about this problem, and really for a reason. That's why I'm going to be a lot shorter, and I'm just going to draw on some important things. This bill will provide fairer care for a number of workers who have been in contact with asbestos in their work. The result of such contact is a disease which is recognised as professional and therefore has valid solutions, and have no basic conditions for retirement such as age or employment. So this bill allows us to exercise age pension rights under more favourable conditions in a way that increases pensions by 26% thus improving the material and social position of this sensitive group of pensioners. Of course, such a solution will have to provide additional funding, but it is the least we can and must do for these people by respecting the Republic of Croatia's Constitution, which among other things says that we are also a social country. I also support the appeal of our colleague, Marijana Petir, and I advocate to speed up the process of diagnosis of asbestos in our many citizens because it is also our obligation to ensure that those people who have not their own will come into such a situation as soon as possible are diagnosed in a relevant and fair manner. For these reasons, the representatives of the CNS will support these additions to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44190	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44191	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government. Under the applicable law of 7 August 2007 under the professional exposure of asbestos, asbestos is considered to be a direct exposure to asbestos due to production, use, decommissioning, disposal, storage or transport of asbestos, i.e. asbestos products or services in plants for the production of asbestos products in the Republic of Croatia and indirect exposure to asbestos due to the work of a natural or legal person based in the Republic of Croatia who used asbestos in its production. Of course, this existing law allows these workers to acquire the right to an age pension under favourable conditions from so-called. General conditions laid down by law under pension insurance. And what makes it necessary to complete the existing law now? During the application of the law, it has been observed that there are a number of workers who, during their work, have used asbestos as a basis for the production of asbestos, there is a reference to "Salonite" and... suffer from asbestos disease and have been identified as a solution to the recognition of the professional disease of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, they do not meet the requirements of age and completed insurance training under Article 1(1) of the Law. This proved to be the need that we are discussing today, that is, the law, to enable those insurance companies to exercise their right to an age pension under more favourable conditions under this law. Article 2 states that the worker referred to in Article 1 of this Act has the right to retirement. Under 1st, if there are 50 years of man's life, or 45 years of women's lives, and 25 years of insurance training provided that he has worked on the jobs referred to in Article 1(2) of this Act for 10 years. And under 2., if a man has completed 53 years of life, or 48 years of the life of women and 30 years of training insurance provided that he has worked at least 20 years on the jobs referred to in Article 1(2) of this Act. It is also proposed that beneficiaries of pensions under the Law on conditions for obtaining the right to age pension of workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos as well as future users under the law increase their pension by 26%. This improves the material and social position of this sensitive group of insurance companies, pensioners. Furthermore, constitutional provisions in the Republic of Croatia as a social state are kept and the rule of law is respected as the highest values of the constitutional order in the Republic of Croatia. 102 workers "Salonita d.d." in the acquired state, an old age pension was made under the Law on conditions for obtaining the right to the age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos in the average amount, unfortunately, of only 2 thousand 530 kuna. The number of pensioners achieved under the law is estimated to increase to 220 in 2010, 230 in 2011, 240 in 2012 and 250 in 2013. As a consequence of the implementation of this law, the total number of pensioners is estimated to be around 20 workers of those companies suffering from asbestos disease who were not entitled under the applicable law to qualify for a retirement pension under this law. In addition, all current and future pensioners under this law would increase their pension by 26%. And I will note how the status of professional disease caused by asbestos exposure is obtained, it is determined on the basis of a solution to recognise the professional disease of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work, which ensures its verification in the procedure prescribed for determining the professional disease. This was a prose, and now I'd like to point out the quality of my predecessors' debates and say that if we really add 26% to this average, that's how my colleague Petyr said that's only 3100 kuna, it's not God knows what, if we know which people they're in. However, I would like to stress the great satisfaction that I am in the Committee on Environmental Protection, which has shown under the leadership of our Ms. Mariana Petitir through 2 thematic sessions that we have one extraordinary sensitivity and that we have worked very hard, each of us as hard as he could, on that committee to make this situation more bearable for these workers. The HDZ will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on conditions for obtaining the right to the age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos with the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44192	Thank you. One correction, Mrs. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44193	I would correct the quote of my colleague Kundic who said that in fact the board has significantly supported this issue in principle from its 2nd thematic session to be updated and more. I would like to remind that the board, or the ruling board members, when we asked for the recovery of the Salonita, has shown a startling indemnity in principle to the problems of the local population and the workers who worked on this problem, in this recovery, so in that sense I don't know how on the one hand here we can talk about one thing in that way, and then we talked about these same things in a completely different way and I think it's quite surprising.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44194	Replica, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. You said, of course, that this law actually increases the material proposal, increases the material and social situation of the sick workers. However, I would say that I wonder how much they'll be able to enjoy it and whether it's actually for some, whether we're reacting late. In fact, if we look at asbestos is an incurable progressive disease, which unfortunately ends very often with lethargy. Also with the first symptoms to death, it's been about 30 years, not from the first symptoms, but from the first contact, and as soon as these people are diagnosed, these patients are dying. I'm also wondering, here's the record. Every 10% of the panel has asbestos. These people have been smelling in their city for years, and also bitterness in their mouths, bitterness of taste in their mouths. Unfortunately, 350 people have already died in that city, and this is from a malignant tumor, a malignant mesothelioma, or carcinoma of the pleura. So I wonder one more time did we react too late for most of these people?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44196	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44197	...that it's not God knows what, but I want to point out one thing. The Croatian government was the first to deal with the situation in the first place. Before that, no one started it, and that's a 70-year-old problem, right? Therefore, it is a Yugoslav problem. 80 years. Therefore, the Croatian government has raised the problem in the first place. Headed by HDZ. I mean, I know everything about mesothelioma and the prognosis of these people, and I know God doesn't know what a health future is, but within these possibilities, we can't say that we don't have a sensitivity for these people. I disagree with you in this regard. And I repeat, the Croatian Democratic Community has just triggered this 70-year-old problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44198	Mr. Agent Govozden Flego, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44199	My colleague seems rather cynical to me, not to say to the ultimate cynicism, that you are talking about the victory of the rule of law in a situation where, by virtue of the positive laws, this business should not exist at all from the moment these laws were passed. And it's been waiting all these years just from that government that you're now praising, to start up some situation that you're declaring a rule of law. And since 2005, man has not been allowed to do business with asbestos, and he's been developing business. And where is the rule of law now? In 2003, the Environmental Protection Fund was established. So, from the moment you took power you had the opportunity to do something in 2004, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth years. 300 and some people died because of the failure to take appropriate measures, and then measures were taken that proved to be God’s measures, because the matter was only buried was not recovered, i.e. it was not recovered. Well, now I don't see any legal state here, especially when it comes to irreparable people's fates and not one, but people in hundreds of cases. Dear colleague Flego, I'm most saddened by the sentence this is a godlike calling. Well, I don't get it, so all the reactions, I don't know how much it costs right now. I don't know how much it costs all together. We've been on a field rescue, we've talked to people. But what about 2000 to 2003? Well, you've had the opportunity to do that yourself. I think we've given in this situation a maximum that could have gotten away with it. I have to tell you both as a man and as a representative and a doctor that my conscience is clean, that we really did our best to help these people. I've seen the movie "Erin Brockovich" I know, but I think this is the maximum I could get out of. I don't know anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44201	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44202	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Chief, colleagues and colleagues. Asbestos and asbestos minerals are the most common group of magnesium silicic fibers, which in their composition have other silicon dioxide and more iron, calcium, sodium, in smaller quantities of chromium, nickel and manganese. It has the most famous are white asbestos, it's brown amozite, it's white is crisised, and it's blue... it's three species. It has a wide range of applications. In some ways, its characteristics are fireworks, high mechanical resistance and resistance to weather accidents and it has the application as we heard in the shipbuilding, construction industry. And it reminds me especially of this in the construction industry, I have to remember it myself. I come from a border one place when, at the same time, they were exporting it out of Hungary. And now I remember God dearly how it was and how much it was. But surely he's causing, on the side of this thing, but he's certainly causing those harmful things, which is a disease, a disease of asbestos, let's say professionally but not to enter that section of expertise. It is an interstitial fibrosis united peribronchially, but it does not matter now whether professional terminology, but rather whether it causes a disease means milder symptoms, benign, and it is in that sense as people have chronic bronchitis, cough, breath etc. But as my colleague Bonacic used to say, malignancies. The resolution on malignant diseases was adopted shortly ago in this Visko home, and it is binding in some way. But the fact is, we all said these people live shorter. And they were aware of our colleagues in 2007 when they passed this law. So, on the terms of obtaining the right to retirement, so workers are professionally exposed to asbestos. And there it was clearly said that, according to professional asbestos exposure under the current law, it is considered direct, therefore direct exposure to asbestos due to work in production, use of decommissioning, disposal, storage, transport of asbestos, i.e. asbestos products or services in plants for the production of asbestos products in the Republic of Croatia. And indirect asbestos exposure due to the work of a natural or legal person based in the Republic of Croatia who used asbestos in its production. And so, in that part, everything that's been said before is what possible users mean by that age group for 50 years that I don't repeat it now, I think it's all clear. In the meantime, however, the Institute for Health Safety at Work has rated a number of workers "Plobest" and "Salonita" already mentioned as professionally incompetent and they do not meet these conditions and this is the first moment that they say they can achieve this right to early retirement. It's the first moment. And the second moment is this 26% which has already been said as well, etc. This is according to this realizes certain projections are said here how many users will be, that I do not repeat over time and, of course, certain financial projections that they also say in accordance with the years but I think it should be ignored. Of course, those people who have suffered this and experienced this unfavourable experience deserve the relief of life in those times and in that disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44203	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44204	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I will not say anything new but it is still necessary to note that in fact, the Law on terms of obtaining the right to an old age pension of workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos and as we have already heard and know adopted in 2007 was, in fact, the intention of providing workers with direct or indirect professionalism of asbestos exposure and under certain conditions of life, the completed insurance training which during their working life was professionally exposed to this harmful activity of asbestos. Since then, it has been observed that there is a circle of patients, and we have heard how many people who have been suffering from illness as well as the number of people who have been released by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and said they are suffering from this disease but who do not meet the conditions of old age and the completed period of insurance. And that is why these changes and additions allow for the right to age pension under more favourable conditions than is proposed to increase the current and future beneficiaries of this pension by 26%, so that the level of these pensions would be equal to the level of income income pensions for pensioners. Thus, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office would, under official duty, fix for all users a new amount of pension within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. But I will agree here at least it is not a replica, but I have recognized as well as my colleague Kundić recognized and particularly stressed that these changes significantly increase the material and social position of this sensitive, therefore vulnerable group of insurance or pensioners. We also heard the corrections of certain allegations, we heard in replicas what is not highlighted. However, with all the things standing, it is still necessary to put what the people say hand to heart and say that the material and social position of this vulnerable group has been significantly improved. In addition, constitutional provisions of Croatia as a social and legal state are kept. In addition to being said here, the government shows that these are the highest values of the constitutional order, so I will vote in favour of the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44205	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44206	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate. I'd just like to start by saying that I'm a Vranjica mom, which means I know very well that many of my relatives are closer, away or acquaintances or sick or dying of asbestos. So, that the problem I'm approaching on the human side and not approaching the political option, but of course from the point of view of the political option I represent here, I'll also speak. However, this first finding is not irrelevant, I think it is extremely important. It happens so often in life and in this case that we actually pay other people's bills today, what happened a long time ago, if now was the time, unfortunately it would have been better if it had been later, but if there was at least time to sort things out now. I get the circumstances to deal with how much with the delay and how much still not in time or for some at least in time, but as they say never too late here is this HDZ government solves and has a busy budget of something that someone else has burdened. In fact, in this subject we all agree, we all agree on this problem. I can't see from the left or the right of anyone who would talk differently about the need to solve this problem. The only difference is that we start to give certain political signs, so in these political signs, we start to compete with someone's responsibilities, but it's actually an essential concern for these people to stay to the end. And that's why it seems to me that whenever the debate starts in terms of who's responsible, who's to blame, if it's too late, could it be more that it actually matter, that autumn of the problem we're talking about is starting to melt and disappear and fade. So I would stay on some basic findings that I think are extremely valuable, which is for me at least my political engagement and commendation that this has happened and that this problem is being solved. I think it's about people who aren't either guilty or indemnity, who may have been happy when they got a job because other jobs aren't, that people are very low qualifications, and that when someone hired them a long time ago, no one told them what their employment problems were, which are waiting for them in life, which are the weight of this problem. And the fact is that there are also calls that are not burdened with some external influences but are dependent on life, so we also give them certain benefits of early retirement, etc. Some don't like to hire a ballerina, for example, because it says it's early retirement, so it'll put a lot of weight on such a fund. Or a friend of my father's who retired for 35 years, so he was allegedly paid by who would crash him in the car as soon as he could, just so they wouldn't pay him any more pensions that he was. In any case, the law provides for an improvement in the material and social status of people who earn it, no matter how many internships they have and how many years. I absolutely agree that if that 1% of which is spoken, if you could add, not because that 1% represents some big profit to them or represents some big burden, but I am clear from the talks that have been led previously in the debate that it is about equating them with all others who have a more favourable status of departure, one privilege of going to retirement and that a deviation from the principles that apply to others in this case would bring a number of problems and open up many new problems to solve. The question is what the employees of Salonita or Flobesta think about how they treat this, I'm not talking about some personal merit or the merit of someone else, but we've shown some social sensitivity as much as we can and I'm happy and I have a little feeling like some personal merit that this has come to today to propose this. And as much as they called me today and asked me and prayed that certain privileges might still be granted, and that man would gladly give them a single aid great for that age which God would have given them to experience as long as possible, I am aware of how much it is not possible. So within the framework that is available, I absolutely support this law and I want it to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44207	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44208	Dear colleague Roshin, I cannot agree with your relativization of this problem at all because we need to keep in mind who privatized the Salonite in the '90s. Well, it's not SDP, is it? HDZ privatized the Salonite. Who privatized him? Turkey. Who allowed Curkovic to flee to Bosnia and Herzegovina? The HDZ made it possible for him. Who made it possible to continue production in "Salonite" after being banned in Croatia means transport, use? Who? HDZ. I don't know how you can balance the responsibilities of the SDP Government, which, by the way, in 2003 passed the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Act, whose resources today finance a bunch of businesses that we think are doing very badly at the Salonita. And HDZ voted against the law at the time, and today these funds are very good for different purposes. We cannot equate the responsibility of the SDP and HDZ in this matter. That's absolutely inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44209	Replication response, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a sequel to what I said in my speech. I think that the topic that a colleague puts on the table is not about asbestos but about something else, which is of course worth talking about and we can talk about the political responsibilities of one or another government anyway. But I think at a time when we're talking asbestos issues isn't the main topic. The main theme of this law, the bill of law, was whether or not to be adopted. But I would use the quote of your colleague Shimac who said quite precisely that it was a progressive disease, difficult to stop, etc. Therefore, even if that had happened in 2005, if that had happened, if it could have happened then the consequences of this disease would still continue to exist until when. Maybe someone would have more money and better material status in these years, because legislation would have been settled, but compared to health, absolutely not. Because everything that is read today by asbestos, the result of asbestos, did not come from 2005 ahead, but from most of it until 2005. We said that the asbestos problem is 80 years and so much so that we're aware, not to be hypocritical, the asbestos problem didn't come about to save workers in any company anywhere in the world, but to protect their own environments because of asbestos, and asbestos is the most threatened by those who work on it. So, the real reason we're fighting asbestos is we're all together, but today's debate is a battle for those workers who still are, can I retire, can't I go where I can get a job, that how much we can, if we can, give them as much as we can. Unfortunately, we can never do as much as we want, but that's life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44211	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with discussion Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, Proposal for a Law on the Amendment of the Law "Ivan Filipović", Proposal for a Law on Teachers for Fundamental and High Schools and Final Proposal of the Law on Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-02-0.u44212	3. Final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 473. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the law on conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 105 votes in favour and one abstention. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. We continue with the session and move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the control of drug abuse, second reading, P.Z. No. 392 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This bill will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by Sima Luchin's representative. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, please.
