ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37822	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. We have before us a proposal for a law on special taxes on salaries, pensions and other receipts. The reason for the adoption of the Law on Special Taxation of Salaries, Pensions and Other Receipts is the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia in which, due to the economic and financial crisis, the income of the state budget is significantly less than the need for the normal financing of all public liabilities, including pension insurance. Last year, the world hit a financial crisis that began to spill over to the real sector at the end of 2008. The global economic crisis was evident at negative economic growth rates across Europe and the world. Croatia also feels the consequences of the crisis, or the fall in economic activity, which was evident by reducing economic growth from 6.7 in the first quarter of 2009. First of all, this decline in activity was manifested as a result of a decrease in consumption but also as a decline in industrial production, construction and trade in goods with abroad. This kind of movement is seen in the collection of revenue from the state budget, which records the decline at the international level. For those reasons, it is justified to act both on the expenditure and on the revenue side of the budget during the duration of the negative movements with a view to bringing public finances into line with real opportunities. Therefore, there was a need to achieve savings wherever possible, including the area of salaries and pension insurance. For this purpose, the proposed law would apply, for a period of time from the entry into force of this law, a special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts by the end of the following year, but including the suspension of pension harmonisation for 2010 in order to reduce the total expenditure of the state budget. A special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts is the income of the state budget. Mandatory accounting, suspension and payment of special salary tax, pensions and other receipts is the payer of these receipts. A special tax is paid on salary, pension, other income or other income. What's a tax base? The tax base is a net income, so net salary, net pension and net other income or other income, which means gross after the reduction of the income tax, for compulsory income insurance, paid tax-recognized insurance premiums, paid income tax advances and income tax cuts. The specific tax shall be paid on the net amount of receipts but shall be suspended before they are paid. How and how is it accounted for? Receipts paid up to 3 thousand kuna in one month after one payer shall not be subject to special salary, pension and other income tax. If this income is more than 3 thousand and up to 6 thousand kuna, then it is taxed on the total amount means that income with a rate of 2% and if it is more than 6 thousand kuna, then it is taxed with a rate of 4%. Let me explain, so if the receipt is 4 thousand then the entire amount of 4 thousand is taxed at 2% and if it's 7 thousand then the entire amount is taxed at 4%. In the case of multiple receipts at the same source at one payer, you receive the sum and if you exceed the amounts prescribed here then tax with those rates. Out of 2 million and 670 thousand salaries and pensions a million 420 thousand salaries and pensions would not be taxed, 910 thousand salaries and pensions would be taxed at 2% and 345 thousand would be taxed at 4%. Out of millions and 600 thousand salaries, 570,000 salaries would not be taxed. Seven hundred and twenty thousand salaries would be taxed with a rate of 2% and 310 thousand with a rate of four percent. In pensions of millions and 70,000 pensions, 845,000 would not be taxed, 190,000 pensions would be taxed at 2% and 34,000 pensions would be taxed at 4%. This law would come into effect by publishing in the People's Newspaper. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37823	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Mr. Goran Maric is the chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37824	Thank you very much. Mr. President. At the 38th session held on 27 July 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts, with the final proposal of the law and as a home working body. In its opening statement, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the proposed law introduces a special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts in the period until 31 December 2010 and suspends the harmonisation of pensions under the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act with a view to increasing income and reducing total expenditure in the 2009 State budget. A special rate tax of 2% will be paid to the total amount of wages, pensions and other receipts if the amount is more than 3000 kuna and less than 6000 kuna, while at a rate of 4% of the specific tax will be paid to amounts of more than 6000 kuna. The implementation of this law plans to generate additional revenues in the state budget of around 755 million kuna in 2009 and around billions and 100 million kuna in 2010, while reducing the expenditure of the state budget by around 630 million kuna. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget decided by majority of votes, 7 votes for and 2 against, the Croatian Parliament proposed the adoption of the Law on Special Tax on Salaries, Pensions and Other Receipts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37825	Thank you. Would the representatives of the other committees like to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. MP and Vice-President Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37826	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor. Gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance. Yesterday there was a debate on the Rebalance of the State Budget, which was actually established on this and other laws that we will discuss today, tomorrow or the next days. Apparently, since yesterday we got the impression that none of the remarks, proposals, suggestions and even very specific restrictions and savings in the existing budget structure, which are proposed by the amendment, will be accepted. It seems groundless once again to talk about all the negative consequences that Croatia's citizens and, in part, the Croatian economy will have, in part, this law and other laws that provide for the introduction of new taxes and new tax obligations, which are primarily for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, whether workers or employees or pensioners. However, while I will repeat some of the things that represent the fundamental values represented by the SDP when we talk about the rational, fair governance of the state, I will repeat some of the values we advocate when we talk about the care of the state for its citizens and the safety of life and the existence of individuals and families, regardless of what we have in advance we suspect that none of this will be considered, let alone accepted. Unfortunately, it will not be taken into account for the preparation of the budget for next year, 2010, because we are afraid, as one of my colleagues said yesterday in a debate here in the Parliament, of a tax introduced, despite the fact that the time limit is difficult to be subsequently abolished. Until recently, we had a situation where no one in the governing structure wanted to even mention the word crisis, let alone problems in state finances, i.e. problems in financing expenditure from the state budget. Yesterday in the state budget, and you explicitly explain this proposal, the law deviates from this established practice. It is said very clearly here that the reason for the introduction of this new tax is, we can say freely, the harras, the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, that the reason for the adoption of a new tax is that the revenues of the state budget are significantly less, I stress, than the need for the normal financing of all public liabilities, including pension insurance. This sentence is somewhat in line with the relaxed statements and assurances we heard yesterday from the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister. They were very non-chalant, they were very self-satisfactory, addressing us also to representatives, but also to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, saying that in public funding, there is no problem in financing all expenditure from the state budget, but that this is one precaution so that they do not have any consequences by the end of the year. What it says in the explanation is about something else. He's talking about a current and existing crisis that he's trying to solve in this way. There are also very alarming data on the drop in economic growth of 6.7% in the first quarter, and it is said that this decline is due to a decrease in consumption, such as the State Secretary or Director of Tax Administration, even the fall of industrial production, construction and trade in goods with abroad. However, I think it is necessary when we talk about this proposal for a law on the introduction of a new tax on net income of citizens from salaries, pensions and all other earnings, to refer to this cause of the decline of a gross social product resulting from a reduction in consumption. If the decline in the first quarter is almost 7% of the result of the decrease in consumption, how much reduction do you think the earnings resulting from the adoption of this law will affect the additional drop in consumption? How much uncertainty due to this information that we receive in the light of this budget will result in additional consumption and how much this will result in an additional decline in the gross social product, and then again it means a new reduction or a new suspension of the revenues of the state budget from taxes and other revenues. It's like it wasn't taken care of. Not as if it were not, but it was not taken into account, and primarily because this measure is being adopted as a fire-fighting measure yesterday, not as a systematic approach to exit from the crisis, exit from recession, exit from the fall of standards, economic activities fall, but as a fire-fighting measure to save its own existence from the ruling elite, the ruling furniture. Those who have brought Croatia and Croatian citizens into this situation, those who have brought the Croatian budget into the situation that at the limit of the possibility of paying their salaries and pensions, they are trying to save their own personality, try to take off their responsibility, transfer everything to some global trends, global crises and convince citizens that they are guilty of this situation because they have raised too many loans or that it is the wrong economy to invest in their own development and new employment, which they have been in charge of abroad because in domestic banks they could not achieve it. It is said in this explanation very clearly without any restraint that there was a direct need to achieve savings wherever possible, including the area of wages and pensions. Dear colleagues, respected gentlemen from the Ministry, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who is saving? Is there a state budget that saves, or is someone else being asked to save? According to what we saw yesterday in the budget rebalance proposal, there's no trying to save the budget. Taking new taxes, cutting net wages and pensions, halting pension harmonisation, as the current Peace Law stipulates, the government calls savings in this proposal. No, it's no saving. It will only have to cause additional savings and giving up on those citizens who will have to start paying this hack, this additional tax on their net earnings. The state saves nothing. The state spends even more to cover the deficit, to cover all those intellectual services without which there is allegedly no development in Croatia. Is this about those intellectual services that, for example, Croatian Power Management Contract of 2.5 Papers pays to the Institute of Science or the Science Institute 180 thousand kunas and that of the untaxable 180 thousand kunas? No one in the government, in the tax administration, had ever thought of taking these intellectual services and making enormous profits for any scientific job tax, but it occurred to them that a million 455 incomes, i.e. salaries and pensions, would be taxed by 2% or 4%, and would still stop the harmonisation of pensions that we know are barely ensuring the survival of retirement families, which unfortunately are not only families in which elderly people live, but very often families that still support and train their children and who are doing this at this moment extremely difficult, and in the future will make it harder and harder. It didn't occur to anyone in the tax administration or the government that at least parallel to this tax he was handling and capital gains, profits, dividends. We know who they pay off. There is a long controversy about whether or not it should be taxed, whether it is a double tax liability or not. But, gentlemen, if we're in a crisis, what else am I discussing? If we're in a crisis and we're taxing pensions and salaries that are over three thousand kunas, why don't we tax dividends that amount to hundreds of millions of kunas in individual cases? Well, it'll be a tax burden that your recipients won't even feel. They will not affect their standards, nor will they affect their children’s education. It will not fill or fill the state budget, but this would represent the application of a certain principle of justice or solidarity. This way, justice cannot be spoken of. It never occurred to anyone that, in parallel with this law, it touched and what was said, you were particularly attacking the SDP, which is a question of taxing large and valuable assets. Not those assets that serve a minimal existence, not the apartments and houses we live in, but all those assets that are used through some normal survival, all that creates a certain profit, and often very enormous profits that are very little affected by any tax obligations. It did not occur to anyone to bring or propose or adopt any measures in this crisis that would detimise dividend payments, profits and profits, payments made to the country's citizens abroad, foreign owners. All this is possible to predict and implement with some measures. It may not be popular, but don't, or maybe it's not popular given those who have a lot, but please don't tell me that the government takes more care of those who are very rich, and less of those who earn from 3 to 6 or 10 thousand kuna. And something about the principle, the constitutional principle of this law, which is justice, equality and proportionality. Dear colleagues, don't mind, but it's still more than hypocritical. To speak of additional taxation of the income of 3 thousand kuna and to say that it is just, that it is by principle of equality and proportionality, and not to grasp all of this, it is the least said hypocritically, and it is also unfair. I don't know if it's for example. Madam Prime Minister, who advocates families and child care, knows that this tax will pay more to families with more children, because the principle of discharge and tax relief for families with a lot of children in income tax collapses this law. On the same gross salary of a bigger hack, a bigger special crisis tax will be paid by families with more children. I end up, colleagues and colleagues, the SDP will vote against this law because it is neither just nor can we talk about equality and proportionality. He's just a hack at the poor thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37827	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37828	Honorable President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. So I especially appreciate the concern of the opposition to the social fate of workers and citizens of Croatia, but it is a pity that they were not so concerned at the time when they themselves acted in power and in some way could contribute to the better fate of the social workers and citizens at the time. For the sake of seriousness, however, I must stress the real facts that bring these intervention laws today. I believe that you could understand the opposition, too, is that right, colleague Vidovic. But the negative economic flows from the global financial markets have also shifted to Croatia, especially to our real sector, which has therefore significantly reduced planned revenues to finance all public liabilities, including pension insurance. The downturn in economic activity also addressed by MP Antunovic, as well as the secretary of state, is certainly due to a 6.7% decrease in economic growth in the first quarter of this year. Normally, the reason for this is that the reduction in consumption, that normal reduction and production, especially that construction suffered, as well as the exchange of goods with abroad. As a result of such negative economic activities, the revenues of the state budget certainly fall significantly, a direct need for the introduction of maximum savings wherever possible including the area of wages and pensions has been demonstrated. But I will remind you of the fact, and I believe that we all remember well that in the last 5 to 6 years the level of social rights in Croatia has been significantly increased. I'm not saying it without a clue, and I'm not stressing it on the x-way, but just to think about what the price of that level of social rights is. The pensions have increased in the last 6 years by 50%, the average pension was then, 6 years ago, 1,000 kuna, today amounts to 2 thousand and 200 kuna. Minimum wage increased by 60%. Six years ago, it was a thousand, 800 kuna gross.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37829	Excuse me. Did anyone interfere with Mrs. Antunovic when she spoke?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37830	A thousand 800 kuna gross.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37831	So let the man speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37832	Or a thousand 392 kunas net. Coliga Vidovic, you have already forgotten this from the time you were Minister of Labour and Social Care, and today it stands at 2 thousand 812.93 kuna gross or 2 thousand 251 kuna and 20 net. The average salary increased by 40%. 6 years ago, it was 3 thousand 940 kuna, and today the net average salary is 5 thousand 326 kuna. The fee for the unemployed, which will surely be remembered by the former minister of social care, how long we prayed to him, was long, long 900 kuna to 1,000 kuna, when he managed to raise that fee for the unemployed by 100 kuna. Today it amounts to 3 thousand 600 kuna, i.e. with this new reduction under the law that we will normally discuss either today or tomorrow, will amount to 2 thousand 251 kuna for the first three months, and by the year for the unemployed now amounts to 2 thousand 600 kuna, and according to this law that we will discuss will amount to a thousand 800 kuna. Well, that's what I think is worth the attention, especially for those who receive that fee. Compensation for maternity and parental support has been increased, as has the child's allowance. All the material rights arranged by a collective contract, which is what I normally mean by civil servants and tenants, are respected, not touched. So there was no unilateral reduction in these salaries, to remind you of some times when first salaries fell 30% to 40%, and then froze. Such a level of social rights that I have now talked about in the emerging conditions of the global economic and financial crisis which has significantly affected the economic and social situation in the Republic of Croatia is not currently, better said in this coming year, more financially sustainable and therefore temporarily decreasing. I stress temporarily. I know it may be difficult to accept temporarily, because we remember a time when there was no temporary reduction in social rights. The proposed law introduces a special tax on salaries and pensions and other receipts, and suspends pension harmonisation under the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act. This intervention law, as I said, has a limited duration until 31 December of the following year, is the year 2010, with the aim of contributing to an increase in revenue and a reduction in total expenditure in the state budget. This special tax covers salaries, pensions and other receipts, as already said here, and is paid at a rate of 2% on the total amount of salaries and pensions above 3 thousand kuna and at a rate of 4% on the total amount of salary and pensions of more than 6 thousand kuna. It is taxed on the principle of justice and proportionality, i.e. Those who have a higher salary and pension will normally pay more, or more. However, given the principle of equality and proportionality that arises from the very Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to which everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in proportion to their opportunities, I agree with Agent Antunović and those who feel the same way, the Government should and I suggest that it do so if it goes to the next rebalancing, cover the categories of citizens who earn income from performing their own interests. For example, lawyers, notebooks, doctors, dentists in private practice, craftsmen, etc. These are all groups with higher incomes and incomes than most workers. And I really don't see a reason, no matter how taxed they are now on a bigger tax, but we're in an extraordinary situation and we don't need to save them there and I don't see any reason for them to be spared those categories. This means that tax payments are introduced for them, even if they are in the flat-rate amount, e.g. up to some level per month to what one average worker in the Republic of Croatia pays. It would also be fair, according to the Constitution and civil morality, to pay this special tax to real estate owners, athletes, to work on as well as to the incomes from dividends in profits. While I am stressing such righteousness, it is also necessary to draw attention to the severances that are not covered by this law. And it also doesn't make sense that a sick person can make more income through a sicker fee than the established level of pay as a margin for paying a special tax, which will not be taxed. If all these categories I've counted were to participate in paying this special tax on their incomes, then surely they would have made even more revenue in the state budget than is now planned. And because of all this, while respecting this situation that I said should be seriously discussed, why are these intervention laws being passed, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supported the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37833	Thank you. Corrections. First, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37834	Mr. Kunst said that in the last six years, pensions have increased 30 percent, which is not true. The peace haven't been in line for six years with the salary growth and the cost of living. For 18 months, they were in line with wage growth, and everything else was in the original or corrected Swiss formula. And when it comes to some terrible increases in gross pensions, then it should be said that in the last six years, the number of pensioners has increased by nearly 200 thousand pensioners. Because every month we have four thousand more pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37835	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37836	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Kunst, who stated that this tax, the tax which is the principle of justice, equality and proportionality. My colleague Kunst did not say that it was not the principle of justice, equality and proportionality, it is as many times as we heard yesterday a bully on Croatian citizens. After the harbinger to the disease, we got a lifesaver. Once again, the wasteland must be saved by citizens and pensioners who have just been socially sensitive to your government to the fact that the average net salary covers 79% of the consumer basket, and the average pension is barely 40% of the average salary. At the same time, capital gains are not touched, capital assets are not touched, and in fact the biggest consumer is not touched, and that is the state. The state remains wasteful and nothing is saved. In addition to the amendments he submitted to the SDP, we have clearly shown that there was no need for a harrassor at all, there have been enough items to save the amount that you will save by cutting these unnecessary items by saving the life of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37837	Thank you. Correction Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37838	Well, I could hardly choose a quote to correct, because this was simply the whole exposure that was incorrect and wrong. And what surprises me is that a big party like HDZ allows a man who doesn't have or knowingly deceives to speak at all in the name of the club. All of the numbers, all of the data and one of the data were completely incorrect, all of the calculations were incorrect. For example, pensions in the past term of Sanader's government grew 15% nominally, indeed 0.6% lower than they were 4 years earlier. I'm not talking about a year and a half of this term. So all the squad is total nonsense. But what we're gonna say is that pensioners don't know npp. Their pension and how much they could buy in 2004 and how much they could in 2007, eighth or ninth. So it's all actually one big complete nonsense. And I would ask that we get serious in this House and stop telling the truth. Or if you don't like that word of lies that don't serve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37839	Thank you. Mr Vidovic, neither you can determine who will speak on behalf of HDZ nor HDZ can speak on behalf of the SDP. It's not your business. And as far as anyone's been telling the truth, that's what you'll see. Disqualifications are out of the question, disqualifications. I don't think that's right. Let's be tolerant about this, but let's not disqualify each other. Mr. Marin Jurjevic, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37840	Thank you. An incorrect quote from counterpart Kunst that this law means the introduction of maximum savings on the principle of justice. It is not maximum savings, it is the introduction of a maximum blow to the most endangered layers in Croatia, because those who have 3,000 and one kuna salaries have declared themselves rich. So, it's being spared that the worst thing on their right to a decent life of work is really if this government is already doing it, the ultimate cynicism is that it's called justice. It's all just not fair. That's all, it's just not dignified.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37841	Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37842	It is incorrect that Mr. MP claimed that it did not touch the child's allowance. In fact, as many rebalances as there have already been, I'm allowing him to forget that the last rebalancing has diminished exactly, that children's allowances have been reduced. But obviously the rebalance is already a lot, that the budget rebalance will be so long as there is a budget at all. So, you're obviously going to your last breath. To speak gives this right. So this is an injustice, it's absolutely incorrect. This friendly hack you've brought in, it's an injustice crying out to the sky. But remember who sows injustice reaping wrath.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37843	Thank you. Mrs. Romana Jerkovic's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37844	Thank you very much. The greatest inaccuracy and inaccuracy I've heard from my colleague Kunst's statement is that this law is taxed on the principle of justice. That's absolutely not incorrect. You obviously don't know what's right and even less what's fair. Because saying it's fair that pensioners with three thousand and 100 kunas pay taxes has nothing to do with reason. Saying that a four-member family with three thousand and 500 kuna benefits has to pay taxes... I think you've lost all contact with reality and you didn't have it with the workers when you represented them, so we can't expect it from you right now. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37845	It's the turn of the HNS club Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37846	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. We have before us a law that is rarely seen by parliament in its term of office. What they would say is that the violence on the villa, or someone remembered that in terms of their own impotence, of course, is the government, the expression of the inability to radically account for the costs of the state that have grown as a germ in a relatively short time of several years, so that by cutting down on citizens and pensioners, by taking away their hard-earned money. I remind you that the Croatian Democratic Community has won elections among other things by opposing its message that it does not wish to introduce any new taxes to all of us who have questioned the possibility of a different fiscal policy stabilising the economic power of the state. When it comes to the possibility of taxing capital gains, it is declared retail issue at the time when hundreds of thousands of Croats buy shares. Today, hundreds of thousands of Croats come to the scissors of a new tax. It's not called, it's not a neck, but it's unfair, first of all, because it doesn't affect those who have but it goes in order but again in that layer that's not a clienteleist layer of HDZ or HSS. Therefore, the government does not have the power to tax the property, the capital gains and to detimise the extraction of dividends or to stimulate its reinvestment in the Croatian economy in order to direct profit investment in the production of new value and that is either fear and incompetence or deliberate bargaining to its own clients. The government's demagogue message that the burden of the crisis is evenly distributed to all citizens of Croatia is primarily not true, and even if it were correct, it would be dangerous because it would be an inappropriate utilitarianism. It is not true that it is not true that everyone endures the burden of the crisis because the story of this new tax excludes not only those who have incomes of up to 3 thousand kunas but also those who have very much but also those who do not know how they earned it. Among them are some professions that are difficult to control at all. If it were true, and if the government really did write a tax to everyone equally, it would be dangerous because citizens are not obliged to pay for such a policy of government, because citizens are not to blame for the economic crisis. Not all citizens have equally participated in the processes that the government has stimulated by increasing their public spending primarily and then by raising the level of liquidity that is holding the entire economic sector back. So not all citizens participated equally in order to be equally imposed on them by this obligation. The best of course will be the tycoons again. A little tycoon even has a salary, and if he has a salary, then it's funny wages that you wonder by wonder how they've soared so much wealth because there are, of course, ways to live luxuriously on a high foot, how to fly private planes, yachts, how to use all the benefits of this world and how to have some small money in your tax card, so it'd be a miracle for a man to even join the end. Citizens did not lead to this crisis, but a government that has been building and implementing a fiscal model of development that is not sustainable for 6 years, which primarily implies galloping the growth of the state budget, so a government that was unable to lead to a budgetary balance within 6 years. Remember, in the 10th month of last year, the government announced it would address the budget deficit issue, so it recently came with a budget proposal for this year, which nevertheless included the budget deficit. It was then that all mouths from professional circles were asked and asked to sit down and decide on radical measures that would actually lead to budgetary balance because the deficit created by the government unfortunately did not go into development because the deficit itself is not a problem if it is financed by development. But if it's funded by consumption, then it's a big problem, it's a weight around our legs, and it's the perpetum of a mobile that's now being put under our noses. The government gets angry when this tax is called harachum. It's not invented by any of us here, it's a folk genius a few days ago who let go into circulation remembering those lines of Mažuranić who say "heave heaven, heave needs," and they fit It's not yelling, Mr. Jarnjak. It's expressive expression. [[- What are you yelling at?]] It's about the song, Mr. Capricorn. I'd like you to read poetry a little more. ... So, they're saying "the bread, the bread, my lord, we haven't seen bread in a long time." [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The burden of the crisis should primarily be carried by the state or government which has led to it, reducing the flow of consumption and reducing the excessive administration in public administration and public enterprises. Why is the people angry? Does the government even see that the people are angry? Why does the government say, quote, these are not my words: "Stretch, you belt, gang thief" or I quote, "Take yourself and not us." Why do people say that? If she's not aware of what's going on in society, I'm afraid this government is going to hit a wall of people's anger, and then it's going to be too late to solve these problems, and it's certainly not going to be possible with this government anymore. The burden of the crisis should be shifted to the back of those who have become rich in the customerist policy of this government, who have acquired property in a suspicious way, who have become rich through various abuses of public procurement. Here's a public one case of 700, 800 thousand kuna. There's a lot of these trucks, and if it were to count where the state's money was drained, it'd be one big column, probably to China, all these years. And if it weren't for the government to now announce the central public procurement system. Well, if she wasn't aware that she was running money all over the place, why would she now announce that she was going to introduce order? And where has she been, why has it been so far? So she admitted the problem. This tax will reduce the purchasing power of a large number of citizens and definitely a large number of Croatian families. This is a tax that doesn't care how much income of 3001 kuna feeds hungry mouths... /The speaker off./... The government puts a line on 3,000 kunas, declaring obviously that kind of income and paying quite enough to live. It's of course for every conviction. We in HNS cannot accept this approach to solving problems, it is not a policy behind which liberal Democrats in Croatia can stand. The government is adventurous, turning its back on the problem and affecting the incomes of the most endangered layer. It is that layer that tries to live from its work, it is a layer that carries on its back Croatia and all of us. I said it once and you got mad, but now I'm gonna say it again. As long as we're not aware that our salary is coming from the salaries of ordinary citizens, workers, pensioners, we won't understand their problems until then. The HNS will not support this proposal of a law imposing on the villa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37847	Thank you. We've got corrections. First Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37848	Well, here, I have to...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37849	Please! ... Please, I didn't hear it, but if the lady said that word, I condemn it to anyone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We will not tolerate such a dictionary in the assembly. If I had heard, the lady would have been given the same warning. Please don't use such expressions in the assembly. Don't insult each other. ... How? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I don't know, if she said that and... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I beg you, colleagues and colleagues, let's not go down to the level to say so below the level of parliamentary representatives. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please! And we will end this debate only if we respect each other. Let's not underestimate ourselves, don't disrespect each other. I see such ironic smiles, but that's not right. It's a lack of arguments. Exaggeration and insult, only when there is no argument is it used. Please, ma'am, if you said it was wrong, apologize if you said it. If you're not, please. Mr. Markovanovic, please. I'm sorry, but I had to warn all of us on this example.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37850	Okay, here in the Croatian Parliament we will speak Croatian so I will correct my colleague in Croatian, his claim, a clear false claim that the Government is not competent to get us out of this crisis. If it's not the government, then who is it? The government you are announcing in which counterpart Linic, co-worker Cacic, and the citizen Cacic has recently told stories by forgetting that he has signed hundreds of contracts with his own companies... Gentlemen dear, I'm... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Try to correct it... /The speaker off./... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Don't turn it off, come on. Try to correct the exact quote. Furthermore, if a colleague speaks incorrectly to be a long column of trucks, the truck is very small, only 39, but in that column and bought it, you will see it soon, in the right way. But that column should be accompanied by eight tilt trains in 2003, 210 tankers of Mercedes...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37851	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37852	And similar things bought in illegal ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37853	Thank you very much. Remember, please, you who are angry at the word rightly get angry when it comes to your word, but then you act like you don't get in another word. Mr. Niko Rebic, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37854	Well, my colleague Richembergh incorrectly claims that this government is not offering this rebalancing way out of the crisis, but only introducing a hack. So it's completely incorrect because actually you from the left opposition coalition don't give this government a chance, you're asking for honey and milk to come out immediately and provoke, you want healthy forces to come to power as soon as possible. In fact, those times have passed, you have to get used to this government being democratic, legally in power, and you'll have to be patient. So if you can't help, don't take it away. This government certainly knows what it's doing, and you're actually still in the six years I've been in this House I've never seen you offer anything too much to the Croatian people. You are not able to offer anything to the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37855	They're all replicas, actually. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37856	Let me read you an e-mail first from this morning. I address you, although you would be surprised which party I actually support, means no IDS, but well, it is not now important, higher than this law, in any determination of the thresholds in the Republic of Croatia is always taken into account family status, i.e. how many family members there are in the community. This time it's not even mentioned in this law. Here's a few examples from the street talk. The husband and husband who receive 3,000 kunas and do not support anyone next to them will pass without deductions, which is fair because the salary is miserable, says, but at the same time the worker with 6,000 kuna salaries will have a deduction of 240 kuna. Two spouses with 4,000 kuna salaries, each will have a deduction of 80 kuna, and a worker with 8,000 kuna salaries and three people on abstention will have 320 kuna deductions. No one took into account the number of family members who abstained. Please take it out to the Parliament. A group of people from Zadar if I'm not mistaken, that's right. From Jadrolinia. I heard a parliamentary representative talk about rebalancing boasting that a million and 500 thousand people would be exempt from paying a crisis tax. I think it's really pathetic to brag about how many citizens have paid less than 3,000 kunas, etc. Now, that would be about what's very much about this law. We, many here, agree that from 2003 to 2006, the very fact that she hired more than 40,000 new employees simply led to our having to withdraw our salaries and pensions today. If that hadn't happened, if that employment trend had been, say, 50% smaller, here we could all keep our current salaries and current pensions. The state apparatus in this country is currently operating over 240 thousand people. Clearly, today is too much of a burden for our wounded economy. To be clear, I also think that at this time 152, let's say the MP is too many. It seems to me that there were 120 MPs sitting in this House in 2000. We have too many state secretaries who are all in a far better position than the MPs, have cars, cell phones, cards, MPs don't have that, okay, okay. I think there's probably too many people, which I know, in the government office, the president of the state, I think in our public enterprises there are too many of those management fees. We have a situation that on the Croatian railway we have four hundred people who have managerial contracts. Of those four hundred people, 107 unionists have a manager's contract. I think we've got too many public defenders, as anyone has thought, so he's proposed some new vehicular lawyer for the sexes, for the children, for the disabled, I don't know what, we have a certain number of municipalities, cities, counties, etc., etc. What doesn't need to be touched at this point, it's certainly health care, education, police. In state + local self-government + public enterprises currently employ over 300 thousand people and it has clearly become an unsustainable burden. At this point, we have, if I'm not mistaken for a million 580 thousand workers and we have a million 180 thousand pensioners. That's 1:1.38 ratio. And if we say no to these 300 thousand people out of that number, then that ratio is about 1:1. It's for one economy, it's for one corrupt country understandably one too much burden. The gross amount of all salaries for employees at the time of the coalition government amounted to 14 billion kuna. Today, it's 24 billion kuna with 34 billion kuna health care. So, it won't be enough to cut down, I don't know, square taxes, what we're discussing today, just pay, there'll be a time when they'll have to get fired. These people, I know, will be burdened by welfare, health care, pension system. In one word, it will also be a burden to the state itself. I am holding the same at this point that the budget could not bear the necessary payment of the severance payments if today, in such a way, a number of excessive employees in the state administration were dealt with. While it was good, the Croatian government did not engage in structural reforms. In the present situation, as someone suggests that 70 or 40,000 people should be fired, I think it's impossible because it would mean an additional blow to the already broken budget if it were to swear to grant severance or early retirement. However, given that the labour market is impoverished, the surplus could not now be offered any additional employment, which was so in 2001 when the surplus of police officers could be taken care of, although clearly most police officers did not want to accept it at the time, and in 2003 they were all returned to work again. For officials and subsistence in public services, preferential severance is provided, if they have more than 30 years of internship, at least 65% of the average gross salary paid in the last 3 months for each completed year of internship. For civil servants and subsistence persons, the contract does not provide for a necessary internship, and net wages are taken into account. Given that the average salary of a civil servant is about 3,000 and 500 kuna, and that their surplus is estimated at this time, in this country at 40,000, needs funds for them, if they were all 30 years old, they would reach, so that severance, about 8 billion kuna, which is clearly not possible for the state at this time. But how it can be expected that the most cancellations would be in the police, in the Moreh, are worth other collective agreements, that I am not particularly elaborated on this right now. Clearly, Croatia is not only a cost-effective country. I don't think pensions are high. By the way, they're embarrassingly low. I don't think the salaries in that state apparatus are big. No, they're not. They're miserable. I don't think the salary of a prime minister, president of the 19 thousand kuna Parliament, is now a big salary. It's not. But the problem of Croatia is the revenue side, and you can see for yourself that there is simply no income. Croatia's problem at the moment may be the number one one to get to the exchange rate, to serve only this year an external debt exceeding 14 billion euros, 14.7 billion euros. I am clearly not saying this by heart, it is clear that what will happen with the service of this external debt is all very much feared. Before I say that for retirement in 2000, for example. Issuing 20.2 billion kuna, 2009. 48.8 billion kuna, for health care 2000. Nine billion kuna, 2009. 27 billion kuna. For school 2000. 6.6 billion, today 11.9 billion kuna. Let me also mention budgeting for the first six months. Income tax 37.2% of planned. VAT 42.3% planned for the first six months. Sales tax is only 36.9%. Costs on cars only 29% of planned. Excise on alcohol 28.8%. In this country, a man can't even get drunk anymore. Excise on tobacco 38.3%. Oil excises 44.2%. Excise duties on imports of 42.8%. Health contributions, there are relatively correct calculations of 48.7%, meaning in size planned. For pensions 48.9%. It all says, these numbers, that we are ill-written and that the real crisis in this country will reach its peak or I don't know my maximum somewhere in the first half of 2010. I personally predict that this could happen in the 5th, 6th month of those before the 2010 season. Then where are we today? I'm afraid we're facing some total chaos, and that chaos, I think, is instigating and ruling the escape from early elections. Not that the opposition would offer some honey and milk, we clearly don't have anyone, no one has a magic wand, but I think this country would get a little political peace, and that would be fatal if they could be carried out and even more radical cuts and implement perhaps more radical reforms and offer citizens what kind of, as some like to say, hope at the end of that tunnel. I follow opportunities in Istria I see that exports work, we first felt a crisis because of our export economy, but exports are growing, that's good. But those who work with domestic companies, you're actually going to get into real trouble right now. It's clear that we can't promise today, what I know is that we're going to increase exports overnight. That's not how it works. It takes us two, three, four years, we need foreign investments, and they're gone. We can't increase overnight tourist income. To make 10 hotels, you need one billion euros, you need investments, you need various permits. It's a job of at least three, four years. You can't say we'll increase revenue from the trade. Well, for that to be clear, I don't need to know 2, 3, maybe four years, etc., etc. But today, what I think needs to be created is the foundation to increase industrial production by 2, 3, 4 years, to increase tourism, craftsmanship, but clearly the standard of citizens with 2, 3 years of denial ahead of us. Without it, only ruins can remain from Croatia. We'll sell everything out, we'll run out of anything, we'll fight inside Croatia by some groups, by region, by ideology, that radical right over some concerts already tell us his greetings, radicalize opportunities, and I'm afraid that in the year ahead we might be on some or some barricades more often than in this assembly. I also know that this tax now offered, which note is unfair, I'm afraid it won't be abolished by any future power. But this government has no mandate for such a thing, because until yesterday, it lied to all of us in the face that there is no crisis in this country. That may be the reason for some of the departures from the political scene. And I think so much that let the government not play with social rebellion, because the social rebellion will eventually shift everything, both government and politics, and only then would that happen would there be a real crisis. But here too, another question opens with this law. Gentlemen, what about the collective agreement? Whether the employer, in order to fulfill the collective contract, must now increase revenues not by 2.4, but rather by 3 and 5, respectively. Or there will be one, under quotes, a transitional measure carried by the worker himself. Can we now put out a thousand, two, three, I don't know how many collective agreements there are in this country? I think you should think about it the same way. And it's not fair, though it's always been, that the burden was usually borne by the poor. Looks like that's how it's gonna be in the future. Although at this point someone should ask the tycoons a question, gentlemen, how did you get to the first million euros? All in all, the law is so unfair. The salary, pension and other income taxed by rates of 2% above three thousand kuna and 4% above 6 thousand kuna will bring 755 million kuna in 2009. And in two years of non-compliance with the pensions of 2.12 billion kuna. The increase in VAT rates to 23% in 2009 will bring about 502 million kuna, is only a billion and 500 million kuna annually. Car excise duties, vessels, etc. It's a minimum fee. The fee for the unemployed is extremely unfairly reduced by about 20, 15 million kunas that should be changed etc.ð And as far as this type of tax is concerned clearly that he is unfair and God forbid the future government is able to abolish him, I doubt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37857	At 11:15 a.m., it's past 10 minutes to report a hearing. We have corrections, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37858	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's an incorrect allegation that this government has hired 40,000 employees in the state. That's completely incorrect. I don't know where he got that information, but he'd like to give it to the public, to tell exactly where this employment happened, in which institutions? If he meant health care, schooling, the MUP, etc. There's no job here either. Far fewer people are employed in these institutions. Therefore, there is no reason to deceive the public in the way he always does.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37859	Correction of Madam Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37860	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's an incorrect quote from a colleague of Cain that the attorney's offices were established as anyone wanted, so he also mentioned a lawyer for the disabled. My colleague Cain is not disabled, but persons with disabilities, it's the right thing to do. And secondly, the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities was founded after a long series of years in which we all discussed whether it was justified or not. The agreement was reached, and even in the Disabilities Strategy adopted by the Assembly in 2003, it included the need to establish the Office of Advocates for Persons with Disabilities. So the deal has been reached and do not say that the offices have been established however they wanted or how it occurred to someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37861	Thank you. Correction Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37862	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain incorrectly stated that we would face each other at barricades, because the radical right hand called for this or that. Inaccurately. I don't mean to confront anyone, in no place. On the contrary, my colleague Cain, you're actually always dealing with someone here with this and that. We're here to face opinions and think in a different way, not conflict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37863	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37864	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen from the government and colleagues and fellow MPs. These days as I said yesterday, we got hit every week by a rebalancing one. Well, I was talking about rebalancing as a debalance. In view of the items and total amounts found there. And now this Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, we're actually causing a imbalance. We are causing a mess among those to whom this bill applies. In this proposal for a law in Article 1 it is clearly pointed out that the law rests on the principles of justice, equality and proportionality, on the basis of which everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in proportion to their opportunities. What a nice thing to say and how nice that sounds. As someone said that proudly sounds, that's a formulated sentence. But when all the elements of this law and what is written in the third rebalancing or debalancing this year and the fourth that will follow say in a month, it is so announced for September, then we see that there are no principles of justice, nor equality, nor proportionality. Here's to illustrate concrete facts. In fact, Article 5 of this law, which is very short and can be quoted, says that at a rate of 2%, there will be a tax on salaries, pensions and other benefits for those who receive between 3 and 6 thousand kuna, and at 4% for those who receive more than 6 thousand kuna. Well, now you see there's one threshold. So two steps, three thousand and six thousand kuna. What about the next stairs? What about the next thresholds? Is there a threshold of ten thousand kuna? Is there a threshold of 20 thousand kuna? Can we increase that rate precisely for the reasons set out in Article 1 so that according to the principles of righteousness, equality, and proportionality, we can set another threshold? It's interesting that the thresholds were established on this to say to the lowest I'd almost say cash amounts. And beyond that, what kind of justice is it if someone has a salary of six thousand and 100 kuna and has five family members, so our family with three children and someone who is single and has six thousand kunas. At the same rate of 4%, that new tax will be cut off and that amount that doesn't hit the same family that has three children and someone who lives entirely alone. Did we ask ourselves, did we ask ourselves whether the number of family members was important in passing such laws? It is precisely for the reasons of this social sensitivity that are formulated here in Article 1 in the principles of righteousness, equality, and proportionality. When I was on my way here to Zagreb, then a judge of the Municipal Court in Slavonski Brod told me if you could tell the Croatian Parliament that the tax administration is not considering any solution to the court in which the attorney's profit was written, then the tax administration would have made a tax cut for that lawyer's profit. He would ask, there is no minister here, there are gentlemen here from the ministry, whether the tax administration has ever considered how much we have here, not here, but in Croatia's attorneys, and how much of their profits we see by their standards, and we see that no one is shutting down the law office, and I wonder if the tax administration has ever received a ruling from the municipal, county and other courts by which it could, from which it is shown by solving the amount of tariff, how much a lawyer gets in one case. So, it never got into the state register, that kind of income was never taxed, and I wonder why. Just as we have legitimate requirements here on the left to tax dividends, assets, extra profits, capital gains, etc., justified I say requirements which, which I personally think should be found in the legal provisions that would regulate it. If we can tax those on the threshold, ranging from three to six thousand kunas of pensioners who have acquired, someone here once said here after a pay phone acquired rights. When I was talking about these BMWs and the Audis, the drivers and security guards, the bodyguards, then Mr. President of the Parliament told me that these were acquired officials' rights. Well, the right and the pension is earned, the right and the pay is earned, but it's cut. Why don't some other acquired rights get cut, I'm talking about these rights that the budget rebalance shows aren't touched, and that's what I'm about to say to the institutions, offices and other state administrations. And gentlemen, we can rebalance and introduce taxes whatever we want. This is how the state administration and the bulky state apparatus cannot afford any state to pay a much richer state than Croatia. That is why there is no one else for us whether they were the new elections or not since the reconstruction of the Croatian society and the Croatian state. That's what Mr. rests his soul Vlado Gotovina told him he needed another republic. If France is the fifth republic, then why not reconstitute Croatia on the principles of the other republic, on some different principles than on those who have so far ruled and written. There's no Mr. Shakespeare here, he's an expert in the Constitution and constitutionality. Excuse me! It's already giving me full support, isn't it, Mr. Shakespeare? But to get me back to this special income tax and pension bill. So once upon a time in England during Cromwell and others, taxes were imposed on chimneys, window taxes, and people were building windows. As long as our Croatian state and our Croatian government are going to say ours, because it should be the Government of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, no matter who the party is, as long as it goes in these rebalances and cuts, I really don't know it. If it continues like this and it is exclusively about saving and drawing up budgets, no matter how anti-recession measures. And where is now the Economic Council of the former Prime Minister who now has a train to say in Slavonia by sea on the Little Vitre, the Great Vitre, I don't even know what the name of that yacht says to the Pannonian one tycoon. Where did the Economic Council discuss the possibilities of exiting the recession? Is this the only measure, therefore, of budget rebalancing, is that the only anti-recession measure? Where we are trying to produce, by investing in the production of what I said yesterday, Mr Kovacevic did not understand, so in the processing and food industry as far as possible, which is very feasible for us to try to solve this by increasing some production, by increasing the sales of something we can produce, what we have, which God has given us. In addition, Mr. Kovacevic sees citizens with no confidence looking at the purpose of spending what I call "popping from hollow to empty," take it over there, this is 2 and 4% because citizens have lost confidence in the purpose of spending these funds. Of course, both for rebalancing and for this proposal, the HDSSB will not vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37865	Thank you. Positively rest in your own country, better than going somewhere else to rest and giving money to others. Positively rest in your own country in a legal manner, especially if vacation is due. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37866	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary. Here is to make the debate a little bit, and historically, we have to remember two years ago, they showed up crying all over Croatia. Someone inexperienced who didn't see what the posters said would think a big Barcelona club was coming to Croatia, because they were red blue, but then after what he looked better, he'd see what it was about. So let me get this straight. On one side of the poster, you can see here and visually, there was blue, on the other side of the poster was red. On one side of the posters there was a dividend tax, on the red section, unsigned, and on the other part of the posters it was written against new taxes, HDZ. And some people really thought, look, they're telling the truth, they're about to vote, we're going to vote for HDZ, they're telling the truth. Sadly, two years later, many of those 800 and some thousands of people saw that they had been deceived. Today we get new taxes, so it's no longer a story against new taxes but for new taxes, and that's why it's good to remind these examples because there will be posters in the future yet. They'll write a lot of things. And it is very important to tell Croatian citizens when they see a poster like this or when they see a poster on which HDZ will be signed not to believe, because you see two years after what was written, what was promised is not happening. New taxes are being introduced. So red blue, very clear. On the blue side of the lie, on the red side of what should be done, which is a dividend tax that those people who earn something from capital in Croatia must pay something and pay for what they have earned. And if that didn't happen the first time it should be reminded, it was me and the 2003 campaign. Then what was HDZ saying? We'll cut the VAT to 20%. Now we're going to have a debate today about the VAT Act where we raise it to 23%, so don't, third time, respected Croatian citizens and citizens, fall for what the party here is going to tell you in blue. They're not telling the truth. And what kind of tax is this? I'm not calling this tax. I'm gonna call this a bill on a special pay breaker, pensions and other receipts. It's a special hack that's being introduced this year because the state is unable to control its costs and why, justifiably, citizens would ask each day, stop us on the streets and ask why we should pay for it. And then, unfortunately, you have to answer them, so most HDZ, HSS, their coalition partners will bring in that hack. We live in a country where laws have to be respected and, by chance, there will be no civil disobedience, they will be taken from you before you get that money, so the employer will be obliged to pay that tax before you get a net salary, pension will pay that tax before you get a pension. So you wouldn't be able to tell them what you think of that hack and then not see how much payment there would be if people were to decide on their own whether to pay it or not. And all for one reason only, because it's unfair and unfair. Unjustly because someone in this country remembered, again I'll remind that someone is on this blue side, it says HDZ, you can see it if someone's in doubt, that over 3,000 kunas is a lot of money. That's a huge amount you've earned, so you can pay 2% in these crisis moments, we're going to cut you by 60 kuna because the state needs help. You don't need help. The state needs help. And 3000 kuna, two salaries are unable to feed one average Croatian family, especially in this year when we also took their school textbooks, when we took their transportation to school, etc. We took it all from those who didn't. But in the budget, those who have, will pay a lot, 30 million kuna will pay those who have yachts, cars, etc. And that is what I would say, the honest Croatia offered by HDZ, the coalition partners of HSS, is important here to say, HSLS and representatives of certain minorities. They offer us this fair Croatia to give Croatian citizens who have no salary because the same government spends beyond measure, is unable to regulate consumption for five, six years and will now be saved by a billion and 400 million kunas that will be realized by the end of the year. Although only 750 million kunas that will pay, we said, about 900 and a few thousand citizens, and from that hack, about 500 million kuna. The average pension is, ladies and gentlemen, 2100 kuna, with 3000 kuna, you can't live if you have a four-member family, and two employees and you will now take someone 2%, it's about one day in a month's life of expenses and now you need to explain to that man that in the budget it's not possible to reduce intellectual items, intellectual contracts, contracts, work contracts, that in the budget it's not possible to transfer some of the works to next year, but they will have to pay that part of the money. We in the SDP say no and it's inadmissible and it's the last thing this government can do, unfortunately it will, but it's an injustice we can't allow. We can't let everything break over the back of the poorest. We have proposed today, and you will have the opportunity to show yourself in HDZ about it, we have found in the savings budget 1.6 billion kunas where there is no need to introduce this. A clear message to Croatian citizens does not need to be introduced that HDZ is willing to make savings that can be made in the budget. Unfortunately, we all know how this is going to end, it's hard to separate from some public procurement by the end of the year. You know how it goes in Croatia, 40 billion, 45 billion purchases over the year are estimated to be 10% overpaid and to be bribed and corruption of 4 and a half billion kuna. And therefore, of course, it is difficult for HDZ to separate itself in the budget from the tightening of those costs that could be incurred, but rather will continue to be carried out. Roads will be run four times more expensive than they were five years ago. And it doesn't matter, you know who's gonna pay for it, Croatian citizens. It is a message from the HDZ and against it is us, but fortunately and increasingly Croatian citizens, unions that justifiably announce protests and should protest against such haraks. You shouldn't be silent because this can't be done. No Croatian citizens, pensioners are allowed to pay for such power because this is not fair and just. And ultimately, it should be said that as soon as the SDP comes to power, and I believe that it will be before the deadline of this law expires, this unfair law will be abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37867	Thank you. Five corrections, one replica. First, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37868	It's hard after a speech like this that's full of lies to correct all lies, but I'll try at least a few. He says the government is unable to regulate consumption. Well, my colleague, the government, which reduced the deficit of the state budget year by year and led it to the level when the 2009 proposal was even 0.8%, so unlike those of your famous 6.3%, it speaks enough how it regulates consumption. The second one says HDZ is not telling the truth. A heavy insult to a colleague for all of us. I can say that you're not telling the truth, but I won't say that SDP generally doesn't tell the truth. It's a serious insult to all of us here. Don't insult me. You, if you're not telling the truth, and you're not telling the truth when you say that four times more expensive highways are now than they were at the time of Racan's authority. That's not true. Look at the parallel data made by the ministry and then you'll see... /The speaker is off, so it's back on./... I know it's hard to listen to the truth, so shut me down. It's not true, so I'm going to repeat once again that the roads are four times more expensive today, than they were in Cacic's time, it's total untrue. You have parallel data for the ministry, ask for them, and you'll see what's true. And third, they shut me down, said everything breaks over the back of the poorest. That's not true because the poorest are exempt by this law. 900 thousand pensioners are excluded and 560 thousand workers are exempt from this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37869	Second correction, Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37870	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague from the SDP who said they're not telling the truth, this is a law on a special hack. The state is unable to control its costs. That's not true. You're actually creating the impression that nothing in life really matters, that everything we do is pointless. I'll tell you exactly, that 900 thousand pensioners and 600 thousand employees will not pay that tax, everyone, and the opposition of course we must be aware of the moment we are in. Everyone, and the opposition, of course, must be determined to do our best for Croatia. Everyone needs to take their share of responsibility, and you obviously don't just live in a black and white world, but in a red and blue world.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37871	Third Amendment, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37872	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This was a very classic speech of hopelessness. The Croatian people cannot profit here. I want to correct that dividend tax would have saved this country because it would have found a lot, but you forgot to tell Croatian citizens that the financial market had collapsed, not in Croatia, in the world. Therefore, those taxes you offered the Croatian people were heavy about 15 billion kuna. At this point, we should lower about 25 billion of our budget to obey you. And then it should be told the Croatian people that other than the financial market has fallen, that the market where it works has fallen, real work. And what did we offer the Croatian people? That it's really growing out of itself? This way, sir, we couldn't possibly do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37873	Next correction by Ms. Tradjka Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37874	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I'm correcting Mr. Maras' incorrect claim that HDZ is not telling the truth. That's not true, Mr. Maras. When we talk definitely about this law, about the special tax on salaries and pensions and other receipts, then the clear proposal for the law expires on 31 December 2010, and I am more than convinced that by following the situation in the economy and in positive movements, the government will surely propose its shorter application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37875	Next correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37876	Well, here's the SDP, never too many lies, to be nice. So it's a new lie that highways are now built four times more expensive than before. I'm asking you to look for parallel data so you'll see, but with average shares, you'll see that the price is equal. Only now they don't build ministerial firms like they did before, but that doesn't matter. Furthermore, this tax is not true that the hack and the people I spoke to, but be careful, with small wages, small pensions, are far better understood than you are. And it seems to me that the complete SDP bullshit is that it's going to take a lot more from you than you thought, so you're having a hard time giving it up. That's obviously the most important thing in all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37877	And Madam Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, fellow Maras said in the debate, and that last sentence, the SDP as soon as it came to power, would end that injustice, so he meant this crisis tax. But that Mr. Maras absolutely does not tell you the truth because if you were to speak, then you should with facts, and the fact is, the latest thing that happened yesterday in the City of Zagreb for SDP's decision because the SDP has been leading Zagreb for 10 years. Expansion of parking zones in the City of Zagreb. What does that mean, Mr. SDPs? That means... /The speech room is off so you're back on./...you're introducing a hack to the citizens. And second thing, 18% cut 19 years is in the City of Zagreb, 19 years old. So give in this crisis situation where millions of people live in the City of Zagreb so help, show your ability, your brains, your care for Croatian citizens... /The speech room is turned off and turned back on./... Don't shut me out. Why won't you listen to the truth? You're talking to one another, you're working the other. I won't speak any further, the Zagrebers know exactly what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37879	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37880	Thank you very much. I just want to say that the injured Rules of Procedure, 209, 210, because Mrs. Solic has corrected it, says when you come to power you won't change it. It's like she knows what we're gonna do. It's impossible to correct simply, so please, it's simply a logical inversion that can't be a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37881	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Don't. She was correcting your claim. Yeah, yeah. Your claim. A claim that was projected into the future. So, that your claim that this fact will happen in the future is incorrect. It's most likely a matter of assessing the future. Replica, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37882	My colleague Maras, the truth is true, so this power won among other elections and for scaring Croatian citizens that the SDP will introduce new taxes, and they will not. You see, whoever digs under another pit falls into it himself. So now HDZ introduces new taxes, and why? To patch up the budget holes. The SDP has proposed a tax on capital gains and assets to achieve that constitutional provision that says everyone in Croatia should contribute to the state as much as its economic strength. That would actually be both fair and solidarity. However, this tax that we are discussing today will be paid by all those citizens who already have over 3,000 kunas up. So no matter how many family members support. And those rich with huge assets, with huge incomes, will again and under this law remain spared.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37883	Replication response, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37884	Thank you very much. How much is this budget gap, we can all see in the draft budget, and that's why I'm surprised when Mr. Matušić, probably out of ignorance, says the deficit has been reduced and that he is smaller than when the coalition government was in power. Today, it is 5 times as planned in the draft budget as it was in 2003. And it's amazing that one parliamentary representative has this information that is publicly available to all citizens doesn't know. Then there was a deficit of 2 billion and 100 and he saw what he was going into, on the highway, etc., and now there's a deficit of 9 billion and 300 and you can't see what he's going into. So one experienced parliamentary representative could at least find on the Internet what any average Croatian citizen can. And the other thing, Mrs. Jelash, is what this government did when HDZ said they tried. You can tell. It saves 260 million Croatian citizens billions and 400. Really big savings. And what was particularly surprising to me by HDZ representatives. In my debate, I mentioned several times that HDZ tricked voters in 2007. I can't believe nobody fixed that. So in HDZ, they're aware that they were cheating in 2007, that this poster was fake, and they just didn't make it right. Thank you very much for confirming what all Croatian citizens already know.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37885	Now you have made a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because in your presentation you refer to the presentation of Representative Matušić. It wasn't the object of the replica. The second you looked back, again you went to one insult of the Croatian Democratic Community, but I express my warning. Let's stick to that line. Let's not, you're constantly being warned that you can't generalize one party with both mystic words and qualify for the most difficult expressions. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37886	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here today we're talking about a law called the Special Tax Act. I think it would be a lot simpler if I called it what the people called the Harrass Act. Now there are two questions. Why are we bringing in a hack and what are we going to do about the hack? We're introducing a hack because we have a government that really doesn't know how to control costs and that's the unproductive costs. The only thing this government knows and has shown a great ability is to put its hand in citizens' pockets. He's going to push his hand so deep into the citizens' pockets, he's going to pierce those pockets, and he's going to ask for a few more kunas to come into the state budget, and then he's going to waste it. It says here, we need a crowbar because if we don't bring in a hack, we won't have to pay our pensions and salaries at the 9th month. That's just not true. For salaries and pensions, it must be because first, salaries and pensions must be paid out of the state budget. Well, it's not just with those kunas that we're going to have to pay and retire. So it won't be for anything else. But the situation is a little different. You see, everyone gives up something in this crisis, it just seems to me that the government is giving up its citizens a little bit. Why is this hack actually being introduced? Not to pay for pensions and salaries, but to allow the government to spend 100 million kuna by the end of the year on information and promotion. More posters like this have to be paid, TV ads should be paid, citizens should be convinced that they are much better off than they are actually going to live. The government will spend another 100 million kunas by the end of the year. That's what a hack is for. By the end of the year, 250 million should also be spent on the rents and rents of the business space. In Croatia where millions of squares of land and special space, especially military facilities stand unused, which fail, where the state pays to preserve these facilities. We pay 500 million kuna a year only on rent and rent, in the second part of the year 250 million. That's why you're introducing a hack. So that we could have rented offices somewhere for this excessive administration. We need to introduce the hack because the government needs another 500 million kuna by the end of the year for intellectual services. It's a lot of studies, work contracts, writing all kinds of contracts and advice, without which we can't. In the first part of the year, 700 million were spent on it, and look what these intellectual services have led us to. To the hatch. Now we haven't had enough of that, now to pay for the second part of the year we have to bring in a new hack. By the end of the year, the government needs 250 million to buy new furniture, because it is exactly what the government will spend on furniture by the end of the year. Therefore, citizens will pay for a hack to buy new chairs and chairs, not to pay off pensions. We are introducing a hack because Croatian roads must pay 33 million kuna of tight interest. They assure us here that everything is paid on time. If it's all paid on time, why do you pay a tight interest? So did someone in the Croatian Roads conclude a contract to pay a tight interest on time? I don't think so. It's not to pay for pensions and salaries, it's to paint the tunnels of St. The deadline cost 233 kuna per square metre, and the company that received the painting gave the job and charged the job 33 kuna. That's why we're paying for the crowbar, because we need to make up for that difference of 200 kuna per square metre that went missing in the tunnel of St. Rock" in the dark. We're paying for a hack because this government really doesn't want to control any of the only unnecessary expenses by the end of this year. Because if there were any will, we wouldn't have to discuss rebalancing at all today, not even today, because we could have solved it all on the last rebalancing. It wouldn't be necessary at all to increase the income rate with a harrass, because without what I'm talking about, we can give up in this crisis. Let's not give up citizens, their standards, their incomes for the benefit of consumption. There's another principle question here. You know, there was a big debate some time ago about decentralisation. And then the government talked about how local self-government would get income taxes, and the state would also take business taxes for themselves, so profit tax, excise duties, customs and VAT. What are we doing now? We're stealing local self-government income tax. Because this is income tax. With this law, Croatia is becoming not the most centralised state in Europe because today it is, but it is becoming 30% more centralised than it was yesterday. There will be a serious disproportionateness in tax revenues between local self-government and central state, as this law and the situation that exists in Croatia will result in a dramatic reduction of local self-government tax revenues between 15% and 20%, and there will be an enormous increase in tax revenues from income tax to the central state. Then we will again be in a situation where local self-government must kneel at the door of the minister and pray for crumbs, but neither will those crumbs be anymore, because there are neither crumbs nor in the ministerial offices in the 10th month. You know, there are cities that don't have a cut. I come from a town like this. For 8 years, I've kept citizens from cuts and then someone comes to those citizens who had 6 to 8% higher wages than in Varazdin, for example in some other cities, today takes those 6% or 8%. And he doesn't leave them in Koprivnica, he takes them to Zagreb. And it would be good if we could see in Koprivnica where your money is, for example, if we started to build these famous A12s, A13s, or the low-rise tracks. But today they say, not that it won't be over by 2011 as it was assured in the pre-election campaign, but by 2013 it will only be on the groundwork. Well, you can do that with a motocultivator by 2013. A12, A13 land work. So, not to kidnap the citizens of Koprivnica hack, but they will absolutely have no use for it. And this is a completely unfair tax, because it goes into unintended consumption and the waste of the state. He's leaving for something that citizens can give up. No one in this House has been given the mandate of Croatian citizens to vote for this harrassor. For this hack and any other tax proposed to be introduced in Croatia, citizens should be asked. We can ask citizens in two ways. A referendum and elections. I think it would be much fairer for citizens to decide in the elections what they want, what kind of Croatia to be in the next period and decide who will lead that Croatia. This way of leading Croatia, leads Croatia into bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37887	Thank you. Six corrections, two replicas. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37888	Thank you, Mr. President. The first incorrect quote is that the government needs money for information and information to print more of these posters. The government never printed party posters. So don't be fooled by your colleague. Secondly, the government can't control costs. The government is able to control the costs, as it has put the budget deficit into the frameworks within which the European Union has set standards below. Even after all this together, after all the problems we have with the global and financial crisis, the budget will be at the level of the European standard 2.8, and the European standard is up to 3%. Next, you said you were kidnapping the local self-government income tax. That's not true. No one steals any percentage of the income tax from local self-government. And you said facilities and real estate. Well, you have the best experience with buildings and real estate. It is well known how that resort in Crikvenica ended, under which conditions were obtained for the citizens of Koprivnica and to whom it was sold and in which way. Your way of managing real estate is very well known.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37889	Second document, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37890	Well, I have to do this again first, because the citizens know that this money won't make any money to cry, no promotions. But where were you colleagues when the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development's posters were printed in 2002 and 2003, as it was called, with the image of Minister Cacic, 'is at that time, which boasted here is his job, and they paid taxpayers. Second. Don't or don't talk as much as you want about the hack. Good people know it's not a hack. But I must remind you, a late staff tribunal has always spoken when he wanted to say something himself, mine, these ones, not to mention who now. Yeah. So do you. Do not speak in the name of the people, for the people do not call you, for they do not believe you. You speak for yourself because you will lose the most with this tax and you cannot regret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37891	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do to correct the three allegations Mr. Gristle says. The government is giving up its citizens. Furthermore, the government is introducing a harrassor. Furthermore, he does not want to control any unnecessary costs. All incorrect, Mr. Gristle. Neither the government gives up its citizens, nor introduces a hack, nor wants to, or wants to control any unnecessary cost, but is doing the opposite and doing everything. And in order to make economic and fiscal adjustments both in terms of the rebalancing of the state budget and in relation to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37893	Fourth Amendment, Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37894	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will correct the inaccuracies of fellow MPs who said the government has been giving up its citizens a little bit. That's not true. You, Mr. Representative, are giving up some of the responsibilities you're carrying with you. In fact, it is true that Prime Minister Kosor has already said on state television, and you could read that in the press, that citizens can be sure that they will receive salaries and pensions and that it is a priority. And in this budget. And not just that. We haven't touched any extras for 400 thousand children and maternity benefits. And not just that. We haven't touched any of the social benefits we raised last year. Also, your mission, sir, is to protect the citizens, not to intimidate them as a parliamentary representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37895	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic's correction next.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to, but it's like, all the time, it's a hack, it's a hack. Well, here's my esteemed colleague, Mr. Lobster, I'd like to correct the assumption that the people have called this a harachus. Mršić's colleagues did not call this a harachus, you promoted it along with the work of the media to cause chaos, a state of hopelessness. You tried to do the same thing before these local elections, but you couldn't do it with the citizens. You're not doing it now. I mean, just so you know. It's not exactly that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37897	And Mrs. Representative Sunny Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37898	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to fix what's actually already said and it's not exactly true that we need a hack because we're not going to have to get paid and pensions. It's just as little and annoying to hear this word, and you've said it 50 times at least, so I might say it's a rhetorical width that clearly doesn't exist here. In addition, as regards the money for promotion and information, so these posters are great and I believe that everyone remembers them from the campaign when you of course lost the election, and if you want to hear more about the money for the promotion and information of the Government of Croatia, then we would not be here to take the time, I will be happy to explain it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37899	Replica Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37900	You should have called your colleague Mršić any blow to the workers' standard if you want to be objective then call him a hack. I remind you that today you have double criteria because remember the period of SDP rule when you drastically cut wages, the material rights of employees, means all those rights that have even come to this government. So then I'll remind you when you've introduced, when you've cemented your salaries and introduced and collected energy power on average 16.2%, you've introduced a new tariff system. All of these things, so reducing the Labour Act, the Law on bankruptcy, means about the rights of people and the bankruptcy of all of theirs, I would say then immoral offices don't remember then your minister of social care who obviously suffers now from amnesia of that time, so he simply didn't know what the state of the state of affairs was like and even less knows about it today. You didn't call for new elections at the time, and then you didn't say some citizens of the referendum decision we want to cut their salaries, abolish the material rights from collective agreements, we want to raise the price of electricity, etc. That's when you didn't call the election, and today you did. So you have double criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37901	Thank you. Reply to the replica Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37902	Yeah, I also remember my colleague Kunst 90 to 2000, one voice screaming in front of the crowd, "Let's go!" ... Yes, 90 to 2000 during that period because it was obviously 90 to 2000 honey and milk, then it was something else and now it's honey and milk again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You offer only and exclusively Mr. Kunst with a party community where now there are tears and diapers to this people because be honest and then combine all the data, say what is and what is not. If someone was shrinking their rights between 2000 and 2003, it was certainly not a burglar but a system was introduced within the state administration that unfortunately you or someone who came behind you and I hope that finally a capable and fair government would have to do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37903	And Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37904	My colleague Mršić, I don't normally agree with you that this tax is a hack, and why I will explain in 20 minutes when I will have an individual debate. But you mentioned Koprivnica as a city without a cut, and there's no cut in my Shenkovec either. And what happens now? Let's get an employee with four thousand kunas of gross wages in Koprivnica, Shenkovec and somewhere else where there's a cut. Because there's no cuts in that man's net salary, it's going to be bigger and it's going to get into the scissors of this tax. The fact that local self-government gave up the cut will now bring tax payments to those employees, regardless of how they pay in Croatia is determined gross rather than net. It's a defect in how to determine a tax base under this law. I'm going to illustrate that later with disabled employees with or without children and also the territorial distribution of the unjust that will bring it. This is also an answer to the question why the Government did not come by amending the Income Tax Act. Because at that time the local community, therefore local self-government would have protected or slightly even slightly higher revenues but the government itself decided to introduce new taxes, which would indeed lead to a disproportion of the local self-government tax income ratios compared to the state. Wherever there is a lower gross salary charge is the result of a net higher salary, the result is the incurring of this new tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37905	Reply to the replica Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37906	Well, I fully agree with you, Mr. Lesar, that the government here, of course, doesn't think about the citizens or when they're being held hostage or when they're going to have it. She's just thinking about herself and only how to get as much money as possible. What will happen to the citizens, what will happen to their municipalities and cities, does not matter to them. We participated two or three months ago in the biggest deception after the conversion because we participated in a flying circus called a pre-election campaign where rock foundations were peed everywhere where there was enough space to stop a little larger column. At that moment, the state of the state had to be known. Works were opened, highways, schools, railway stations, railways, ferry ports as if it were well-being, not as well as well-being, but as a children's kindergarten for what we have in Croatia. A few days after that, there was nothing more like the election campaign. And not only that, but now those who went out fairly in front of their voters and offered a real program, now the government is making it impossible for them to do so with this whole package of laws. It will also take those units of local self-government that are fairly managing tax revenues and expenditures, now taking them the opportunity to implement their programmes. The government only cares how she survives, how she survives next month. How they're going to do that to the citizens, she doesn't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37907	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go. [[/Intruder: What is that, a replica?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37908	My colleagues and colleagues, I would say that perhaps, as far as I remember, we did not have a sadder law in the Croatian Parliament than we are discussing today. I purposely use an emotional expression, because I think those who are watching us, who are following us and listening to what we are going to say about this law here, are not deprived of emotion, most likely anger, anger, disgust. And what surprises me a little bit, I expected everyone in this House, regardless of their party commitment, with a habitable discomfort, if I can't already attack this law, to defend it less passionately. This sad law is at the same time the law of truth and I don't think there's any need to speak in gloves or to hide that truth. She's famous, she's felt by those who have nothing to do with the economy, who haven't finished colleges, but who have to feed their families every day. Drag your hand, drag your paws of fat, fat, overstates, into the pockets of pensioners and workers who have 3,000 kunas, claiming to be taxed by those who have a high level of cynicism. It is a supreme cynicism to say that someone who has 3001 kuna, who may have three, four or five children who must be educated, who must buy books, who is wealthy and who needs to be taxed. That's cynical. Let us guard against such types of qualifications and defense of this sad law that we are discussing today. What is true truth and what is the basis of this law? The truth is, gentlemen, that we live in a country that has a third budget rebalancing in just three months, in a country where a colleague was mentioned only a few minutes ago, the word of the crisis should not have been mentioned until a month and a half ago. We have a situation where Podokin's villages and towers are completely torn down. We now know, I guess now we know and everyone in this country knows and I don't attack any party, for the citizens, it's completely irrelevant you know. In these times, they are no longer concerned by HDZ, SDP, or this or that. We have a situation where it is definitely clear that Croatia has leadership, has a power that does not know, which has no strategy. Croatia is a country where you do not know what tax policy is. Fiscal policy, what we're experiencing in these three months, and even here, take last week, 12 times in three days, so every 12 hours, the idea of taxing citizens has changed. We don't know if we have a good monetary policy, we don't have industrial policies, regional policies. We are in total ignorance and chaos. But the saddest and most worrying fact is that we don't have a government that has the political will to truly face the state of the country. No political will. And this isn't about calling new choices. Who would want a new election? They really mean two months, three months of extra paralysis, etc., but better than two months or three months of further falling into chaos, in a break-in where absolutely certain, every citizen of this country knows it, we sink from day to day. And another thing, in the Croatian government and those who justify these measures, is the attempt to overcome the crisis or this cataclysm that we are in, that it is caused by something that happened out there. Gentlemen, we can thank God for the global financial crisis. Thank God, you know why? So if we had any more of who to take from, cheap money, this would go on and on, and the situation would be even worse in a year or two days. Since the first day of six years ago, some people who know what they're doing have been shown and it's quite clear that we're sinking and that the policy that's being led in this country, which is inaugural, is completely wrong. The concept of that government is upside down. It is characterized by high doses of irresponsibility, high doses of demand for flat-rate solutions and cheap demagogue image-making and impression. I know that the problem of world policy is that it is estradised and that the impression is trying to win citizens' support, but it is completely emptied from the policy content, as is the case with us. Emptyed from any content, any concepts, what is actually catastrophic and medium-term and long-term for one country. If this isn't the moment we're gonna sober up and tell God's people, the ones we're dealing with in this business, we have to finally stand responsible in front of the citizens of this country and change the entire paradigm of political life, then I don't know when that time will come. We really sink and take responsibility, sink into chaos, no matter what we talk about, no matter how they talk about it or don't talk about it. It's just an objective state of affairs. This is where the past was mentioned. Indeed, I remember in 2000 the time that was similar to this, coming to the country or inheriting Croatia which is an internationally completely isolated state. A country that has suffered war, great destruction, human losses, etc. But a country that was to enter the Council of Europe for six years. We were an isolated island, except for the dysfunctional Bosnia and Herzegovina, Belarus, the only country that actually stood outside any European integration. In 2000, we inherit a country that has a negative growth rate, as it is now. We inherit a country where state-owned companies generate losses of ten or twelve billion kuna. A country with 17 billion unpaid claims in which the state is the largest non-payment. And what are we looking for, what are we doing? Well, not what you gentlemen are now trying to offer as a model, but on the contrary. To realize, to ensure, we also had the IMF behind us and the World Bank, to ensure that exactly the most vulnerable categories of the population, the poor, the unemployed, the pensioners could survive these difficult times. I was unhappy with our government, I thought we weren't doing well enough. Now that Mr. Kunst reminds me, it seems to me that we were Nobels compared to what's happening now. The data says that what we wanted to show here is as if we're social, that we've spent our time because we've had big social benefits is simply a lie. All data on pensions amounted to 28% of the state budget in 2003 or even at one point in 2002. 14.3% of GDP, and 2007. 10.6. The share of pensions fell, the share of unemployment benefits fell from 0.42 per 0.32 GDP. The allowance for children nearly halved when the share of GDP is seen. Refund for regular maternity leave, welfare system, all these parameters are down. So what was the money spent on if it wasn't increased social expenditure? And now we come into a situation where the poorest and the most vulnerable take money. And let me just say one more detail, please. Time's up? Then I apologize and respect the weather. Unfortunately, the subject requires a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37909	Three allegations and 6.7 replicas for now. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37910	Here, too bad the correction can't last at least half an hour because a colleague said this was the saddest law that was passed in this House, and definitely not. Much sadder was the law when you came to power so you took people's wages right away, 30% salary, 40% salary, so you don't know, maternity leave cut short, took wherever you got. The sadder the law was when you passed the law of bankruptcy, when you put the workers at the bottom of the priority. It's a good thing it's been fixed. The sad law was also much sadder when you sold INA for 25% plus management rights, and saddestly, your grief comes from a clean collection because you lost 10% of your salary first, so 5% of your salary, then 4% of your salary, so parking in the garage, so no 25% of your salary. Don't cry, we're still much better off than those in whose name you speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37911	Next correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's incorrect that we have a power that doesn't know and that there's no political will to face the problem truly. However, this very government has the true will to face problems, to really balance the budget, and that's what's happening. As for what you said, you said that someone in HDZ had declared a wealthy citizen of 3,000 kuna. As a result of these taxes, these taxes are the result of an agreement with the social partners where the best possible solution has been sought, which will have the least harmful consequences and bypasses those who have fewer incomes. And just to remind the citizens when you're already talking about this 24% tax. You cut 30-40% of your salary when you came to power in 2000. You've reduced their rights, you've abolished their rights, you've disobeyed collective agreements. Is this the way responsible authority behaves? 30-40%. We're talking about a short-term tax of 2-4% that will last until the end of next year, unless the situation is fixed. But only by the end of next year are we talking about a situation that is extraordinary, which is the result of the global financial crisis, no matter what you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37913	Thank you. And Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37914	Well, here I am correcting a number of incorrect allegations made by Mr. Vidovic, that the wrong policy of this government, that it is irresponsible, that it has a flat-rate solution, that it is all a demagogue image based on impressions. On the contrary, Mr. Vidovic, you've made an impression here. At first I listened to you very carefully, you were very credible until you started using expressions, this break-in, cataclysm, sad, sinking, sober. Just as you, as a very experienced demagogue, tried to show a picture that was simply incorrect and if all of this were what you said during 2000 to 2003, why did you lose the election?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37915	Seven replicas. The first is Mr. Agent Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37916	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As colleagues in the corrections of the allegations have also noticed, counterpart Vidovic used a lot of emotional expressions and I will try to explain what kind of emotional expression would be most appropriate, and that is the expression of tragedy. In fact, tragedy is a kind of drama where the main character or the ideas for which he fights disappears or collapses. This idea you've been fighting for that there aren't any new taxes just disappeared or failed. According to Aristotle, the fundamental role of tragedy is catharsis, or the feeling of pity that tragedy must cause in viewers. With viewers, it did not cause people to feel sorry for themselves, but it caused the government to feel self-pity that the citizens did not understand it and that the public was lynching it. Tragedy must deepen the viewer’s moral worldly horizons and encourage sensitivity in it and thus purify his soul. Unfortunately, this tragedy will clear citizens' pockets. The only difference between Greek tragedy and Croatian tragedy is that Greek tragedy is based on myth and Croatian corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37917	Why is it called "hungry" like Greece? Replica reply, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37918	This was an interesting fellow to listen to, in fact, just an explanation of the tragedy, but I wouldn't put any elements of the theatre into this topic, which is really serious. You know, I'm afraid that people who listen to us feel like they're the ones who got separated from real life and we're sitting here talking about who's gonna be smarter than us, who's gonna insult who more or who's gonna frame them better. That's not a good message, people, so are we aware that we're taking 3 billion kunas from people's pockets next year? I don't care if it's a tragedy or a comedy. People, this is, this is a tragedy if we're not aware of what's really going on, what we're doing here today and what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37919	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37920	Thank you. Comrade Vidovic, you spoke of cynicism, and it can indeed be said that what's done here is largely cynicism. It is indeed a cynicism to claim that one who has 3,000 and one kuna that is rich enough, that it needs to be paid by extra tax and even more cynicism among those colleagues who say no, the poverty will be protected because we have as much as a million and a million and 500 thousand of those who do not have three thousand kunas, so it turns out that there are even more vulnerable, even poorer, even more depreciated. We will not touch them, so they boast of their kind of humanity toward those who are at the bottom of the material means. And the greatest cynicism is when it's claimed that it's all expensive justice. ... Quiet musicians. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] About one more thing. He keeps running away from the truth, and that's the worst part. There was a lot of talk yesterday about it. You tell my people what you want, but if you run from the truth, you'll never solve this situation. As far as correcting incorrect allegations is concerned, there's a lot of things really going on here. There's a lot of noise, but it's easy until the people say or thunder the correction of an incorrect quote, so let's see what kind of hero or heroic business is going to stop it and tell it what it means.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37921	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37922	Here I can agree that citizens are the ones who, God forbid to give us corrections to false allegations as can be expected, but I would like to say that the treasure is passing a lie. They say up to three thousand kunas, nobody touches the pension below. This law also touches those pensions, without indexing pensions, they fall. The indexation is about 670, 700 million kuna a year. This means that so much will be captured by the poorest, those who have thousands of kuna pensions and will be taken. And they'll be taken. So people stay, so the biggest poor, the people who barely survive, and they... in the pocket of that one wasteful state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do not forget in Croatia for only 40% of the working population. This is the lowest level of employment in Europe. There aren't any fewer employees anywhere. Everything else is actually in this zone that you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37923	Ms. Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37924	Thank you very much. Coliga Vidovic, you said at one point your debate that the people are sick of demagogy and enough thinking about shooting us here who is a party for what is due or responsible in this Croatia. But citizens call us every day to our representatives clubs and ask specific questions and these specific things should be answered. So I'm going to formulate the three that I hope we'll get a response here today from the secretary of state or whoever's already in front of the government. Three thousand kuna and one lime, two limes. Will they be taxed, too? Will supplements to physical damage and disability, totaling the same amount of pension, be taxed? Will they be taxed, too? And let's say, will the members of the clerics, the clergy, the religious communities be taxed? Which are also financed from the state budget and from the tax on all of us. So these are specific questions that we won't get an answer to, or maybe we will, and we'll see how credible and honest he will be, and if that's the case. These are the questions that plague the citizens. Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37925	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37926	Yeah. Unfortunately, there are too many questions, too few answers. These questions stemming from this bill, which concerns each individual, of course, I hope to the ranks of the ruling ones who came up with such a scandalous and extremely unacceptable tax. However, questions that are also asked for extreme purposes. I'm surprised, Mr. Secretary of State, I'm surprised that no one has warned you who you know better than I do that this extremely unpopular tax will reflect itself in its opposite. He won't lead to an increased... [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37927	Peace. Gentlemen of the MPs, as far as that goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37928	So it won't lead to the inflow of new money because you know who the biggest consumer is? Who buys Croatian? Pensioners. Pensioners buy Croatian products. They don't even have yachts, they don't have Sonny's TVs, plasmas, etc. They buy bread, milk and most essential supplies mostly Croatian products. Maybe now Chinese because they sell 15 kunas in those shops. Don't do it that way. I'm surprised. Don't do it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37929	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37930	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidic, you said this was a sad law. And you're absolutely right about that. When you were Minister, the average pension was 44% of the average salary. Today, the average pension is 39% of the average salary, and with this hack, it will be below 38%. But it's very important to say one more thing. With this coercion that people understand and nominally how much it is, on average every pensioner and every Croatian employee that is covered by this special harak will be taken every month of 150 kuna. 150 kunas, gentlemen, you will take each and every one of them to make up for what you spend more than you have. And on the other hand, I would suggest that next time on the poster, let it not say, against new defeats, but 150 kuna will be taken from you every month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37931	Answer Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37932	I thank you for this reminder. I wasn't really proud you know about the pensions of a thousand 723 kunas we left six years ago as an average pension. This was the rise of pensions in that crisis in 2000, 2003, this red. This is a pension growth that happened after that. In years, it would be seen that these pensions in the 4 years of my term of office that you are talking about increased by 48% and realistically 33%, while 9.4% was growth in the mandate of the last government. What am I saying? Not to praise it, but to warn that this government can only have two goals. One is to raise production as soon as possible, increase employment. And secondly, in these difficult times, keep the most vulnerable, keep the wages and pensions. It had to be the last thing to touch, the last thing to touch. If it had already been touched then it had to be seen within the state administration that has grown enormously and has become a huge burden for most people in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37933	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37934	Well, fellow Vidovic, you are one of the few Nobel laureates of the former government whom citizens and workers were eager to change, but in the regular elections in 2003. And now that we've both been participants in that time, so please make it clear to the public. Did you cut your salary by 30 to 40% by coming to power? Did you change the Labour Act so you cut people's severances? Did you reduce the time of the unemployment benefits? Did you touch the bankruptcy bill and transfer the workers from the first payment order to the second payment order? Did you have 400 thousand unemployed at the time? Did you have unemployment benefits anywhere from 900 to 1,000 kuna? If you don't already believe the statistics I'm talking about, because you're dealing with time spaces, and otherwise it's not hard to check, so you don't have to say that this false statistic that I have here is, and I could count more for you. Is it true they were on strike then? There's no one who didn't strike in that state during that government. From pensioners, workers, defenders, state and public officials. I don't know who didn't strike everything. Not once. It's almost every year that they strike. So on this side when you're talking today and you're crying like this, given these laws, don't forget the time you were calling yourself a Nobel. I don't think you've really made such a contribution as Nobel laureates, because you know this government is still paying these Nobel laureates' bills from 2000 to 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37935	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37936	I am a 53-year-old boy, but thank God memory serves me well. I hope that my peer also serves and that actually these questions that he asks, I thank you for that creamworth, gives me the opportunity to say something about these times already speaking. The truth is we took 40% of the salary. You know who? To yourself. Ministers and parliamentary deputies. When I came for the minister of wages, I was 22.5 thousand kuna. After two months she came to me on the 14th so much and to Mr. Markovanovic who thinks he's crying for it. Second. A month before the 2000 elections, Matesha's government raised salaries by 17%, nothing caused by knowing they would not have to pay them off. Nothing's been caused. It's the truth about the employees' salaries. Of course, the land we found in chaos like you are now leaving for God's sake. If it couldn't be submitted to the clerks, officials would be provided with salaries 17% higher. They only got one like that in the 12th month of '99. And never again. All the money we had left to the economy. I mentioned state-owned companies. You know how much they got? All positive, except HAC was one specific story, all positive business. INA had a profit of 2 billion kuna a year. All the money left for reinvestment and development. We left the gentlemen in a land where serious reforms were taken. This Labour Act, which we have done, and the one which unions now defend both hands and feet, as one of the most social and working best law in the European frameworks. Implementation is what's wrong. You haven't been able to provide mechanisms in six years to protect workers. And that's the problem. If the wages were too small, the severances were lowered, so why didn't you raise them?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37937	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37938	So lift them up for God's sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37939	Very good. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke about the differences between the time after the January 3rd 2000 elections and the government and all other HDZ governments, especially this in the last one and a half term. I want to remind you that you didn't mention that when the coalition came to power on 3 January 2000, the internal debt was 9 billion. The payments within the state were over a year. That went down to zero, so that internal debt and the payment went down to 60 days. And by the end of that government's term, the payment was 60 days. Now, the truth is different things were shrinking, changing in different ways, but it was clear what the goal was. And I think that's the important difference. It was clear that the goal was to strengthen the economy and give the economy space to then pull the whole country forward. And that resulted in the fact that the growth rate jumped to 5.4%. Last year before Christmas, when we discussed the budget here, ministers from this government, I underline, say, Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, said that growth will be last year, so in December, he said, 3.3%. As we know, there were 2.4% of whether it is possible that this government did not know in December what growth of gross domestic product would be. So, of course they're all cutting something, they're adding something, etc. The only question is whether it's a clear goal, for what purpose it's done, which is the whole point of the whole thing. Whether the economy is growing, whether or not something else is growing, that anything is going on, but not in the principle that we should just keep our fingers in the dam or shut the holes while the masters leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37941	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37942	Yes, you mentioned exactly what I think is crucial. I've heard a lot of people in Croatia say we'd give up our 100, 200 kuna, and it would be even harder to live if we saw the purpose of that, where we're actually going. We're going back to the beginning of that sad story of ours. Absence of any purpose. I wouldn't want to offend anyone here, I wish we had to twist here and tell the truth about the political points, but here the truth is people just want to keep themselves naked. No one normal in this country today who's responsible, who thinks of the difficult problems that power wants because it can't be fat and honor. It's a heavy mining bloody job. What we did when you mentioned in those four years it was a bloody hard job. The World Bank and the IMF were right behind us, we couldn't avoid them at the time. We've been conducting reforms but we've kept these two key objectives of growth in the economy that we've secured, we've had the highest rate of economic growth in all of transition Europe and social security insurance for people who haven't had. That's two key objectives. Why don't we make a consensus about these goals so we don't say that they'll be goals for the future. Ignorance or lies. I agree, Mrs Pusic, I don't know at the 12th month how much we're going to have about GDP growth or GDP decline or that we're total strangers or that we knew then and that we were consciously telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37943	Thank you. We have another replica of the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37944	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Vidovic just before you mentioned the law of truth you were talking about the emotions our citizens are experiencing, so you mentioned anger, anger, disgust. Normally, they feel it precisely because this is all aimless and now in your reply to the replica you answered what I wanted to tell you in this replica, so I won't repeat it, but I'm sure everyone would do it. But I would tell you that not only do they feel these emotions that you've listed, they feel sad, they feel powerless, and these are the two emotions that are the worst, that are unexplainable. It's precisely because of this HDZ policy that our citizens feel it, they Googled it. The only thing left for them is the insurrection that shows in the elections, which unfortunately shows by not dating or abstinence about the elections. I'd look back on one more thing. I don't understand how some Parliamentarians here, a colleague of Vidovic, say you're an experienced demagogue. I don't really get it. Is it demagogy to sympathize with our citizens? And poor is the man who can't feel compassion for the ones we've been chosen to do. And to remind you that one of the anti-recession measures on the 10th was in government anti-recession measures to maintain living standards to the most endangered groups of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37945	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37946	My colleagues, I think that one of the side products of this policy but a terriblely dangerous side product is the loss of citizens' trust in everything. That's what they call social capital sociology. The citizens stopped trusting any institution. They don't trust each other. The level of trust in Croatian society has reached catastrophic alarming proportions. We no longer have a positive atmosphere to trust anyone when anything is proposed, it's actually looking at who's going to fool me, who's going to take something away from me because it's become a general rule of conduct and it's going directly from the government. It is the government that creates such an atmosphere. You know, sometimes it was about socialism, "Get on with it, buddy.". We don't have to stick to the law like a drunk float. This one anomaly, this feeling of impotence and abandonment to itself, uncertainty is actually such laws are further deepening and I don't see without a general serious change in the entire political paradigm that it's possible to solve. People can fool themselves as much as we want, we'll do these mandates, but believe that they won't remember us for anything good by the people who will someday be responsible for this country after us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37947	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37948	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, we heard a lot yesterday and today about the topic of rebalancing, and also about this legislative regulation that follows, so I'm a rebalance or time we live in. Here, we hear different opinions and views of returning to history, comedy, tragedy, etc. I would stay on the subject at the beginning no matter what we heard, so enough indicators on these basic parameters clearly which we have an opportunity to see in the amendments to this law and relate to 2% of the income tax for those with receipts of 3 to 6 thousand kuna net and 4 with more than 6 thousand kuna. What is important to point out and obviously that many do not really want to point out in their discussions is that these changes have not affected 891 thousand and 5 hundred pensioners and about 6 hundred thousand employees with incomes of up to 3 thousand kuna. It is also important to say that by introducing this budget tax, it would mean 2 billion and 100 million kuna, and another 630 million would be saved on the spending side, and it obviously does not want to be said, as well as finally what is signifiable, which is that this law has a deadline until 31.12.2010. Why change? So by deepening the crisis and the deepening crisis in itself, it was a sign that it had to continue to align income and expenditure, as well as to change the part of the legislation. The government has shown how what it does makes sense. Why? So there is a fully realistic view of the situation, accepting the fact that, with the inevitable denials today, there are future solutions for improvements in the times to come, and that is very important. It's very important, it's a message to citizens who have their own character. This law also shows, as well as the other laws we will hear today, that the government respects all members of the ruling coalition, but also that social partnership is not just some mere form. The goal was to hear the opinion of all interested people, and then by mutual dialogue come from the best solution. That it is indeed so confirmed by employers who have shown responsibility and consistency in supporting government measures, and I believe that they will also show it further in the negotiations and will also be socially sensitive and will have a sense of reality in the existing situation. And this is again on their part and government messages to some that a solution, as I said, comes at a table and dialogue, not in a way that tries to solve the problem on the streets with insults and threats. The government has also made it clear to this that it is trying to keep it, and it was highlighted yesterday, both jobs and social status. We hear today also from some that they don't like to go back to history, but we have to go back because obviously we have to look at the alternative offered. The alternative, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues on the left, which you are offering is actually history. Let's just take an example for Mr. Linic and Mr. Cacic, Mr. Linic with his Eurotroll, with the Rijeka Bank, with "Viktor Lenco", Mr. Cacic with 120 contracts he signed with himself. Gentlemen, you're talking about yachts and yachts. Well, you actually patented the yachts. Your government made decisions on the yacht of the owner of Victor Lenco, Mr. Vrhovnik, and he clearly got several hundred million in return. And finally, gentlemen, you were talking about comedy and tragedy, so you see there was tragedy or comedy, and in one case or another, you're statisticians.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37949	Thank you. And now we have three corrections first and then six replicas. First the corrections. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37950	A colleague incorrectly claimed that a million and 500 thousand people were not affected because they had a salary below 3,000 kuna. These people have been hit for many years, including 800,000 pensioners. Also, all those who work and have a salary below 3,000 kuna. They're hit people. And we expected you to increase those people's salaries and pensions with these measures. This is what you were expected to do, that is what you promised, and you keep promising it, and now you boast that there are those who have nothing to be taken away from or when there is nothing certain about it. It's a miracle you haven't yet boasted that you're not touching the child's spoons of a bitch, but when it comes to HDZ, it's not safe anymore either.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37951	I don't think that's the way to ironize a party. Don't do this. You can say something like this to someone individually, but you have no right to say it to the whole stranger. Let's move on with the corrections, and that's the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37952	Mr. Vice President. A colleague found, in my opinion incorrectly, that this bill did not touch pensioners in the category of up to 3000 kuna. That's about 850, 860 thousand of those pensioners. My colleague, then you didn't read the law well, and these pensioners won't be in line. That's what you forgot. That's what nobody wants to say here. Therefore, according to this, how you say it will last until the end of 2010, they can shake hands with the regular harmonisation of peace. And then how could it be that you didn't touch those pensions?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37953	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would, I would appreciate your request not to generalise parties and individuals, but as I think I touched Mr. Hrelje then I don't know how far I'm going to cross that line because he's the only representative of his party. So I'm going to correct Mr. Matkovic's incorrect allegations that they were negotiations, dialogues and that in the end the best solution was found. Since these negotiations and dialogues and monologues and I don't know what they looked like they looked the best showing example of what Mr. Hrelja understood on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement, which the trade unions understood...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37955	I'm sorry, what's the correction to that incorrect allegation?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37956	The correction is that Mr. Matkovic said that they were negotiations with various partners, that the best way was sought, and I'm trying to correct that it wasn't the negotiations, but it was the monologue, that they were telling each other, and that Mr. Hrelja said that the whole salary or pension would be taxed, that these others said they wouldn't, etc. So, in that sense, I don't think I...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37957	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37958	Came out of correction, but that's good, that's why Mr. HSU Coalition came out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37959	Are you happy now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37960	I'll be even happier, Mr. Vice President, and I'll be even happier once you're out of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37961	Let's go to the replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague rightly said that some people don't like to go back in time, but he missed to say some of the information that is related to the past. For example. Today we hear from the opposition ranks that they inherited some debts in 2000, etc., and forget to say that they left the debt uncovered, hidden over 8 billion kunas in 2003. It's forgotten to say here. So 8 billion and 300 million kuna left the government in 2003 uncovered, hidden in various accounts. Furthermore, a colleague is true that there are great differences between us and them, although they tell us that we do not know how to solve problems and that we do not know what we want. We know very well what we want. We want to protect and protect the poorest layers, which is exactly what we do by passing this law and we want to give the economy the opportunity to develop in the right way. Why? Because this economy needs incentives, farmers need incentives, and we have made it clear that we should give farmers incentives because it is a strategic commitment. While from the opposition lines a clear message, here's an example. All agricultural incentives should be abolished from the CNS. That's the difference between our policy and theirs. That's concrete. Or let's move on, see if they're texting us today from the SDP why don't you touch the baby bank pigs? Well, we're not gonna touch a child's bank of pigs like they did, like they cut child's allowances, when the maternity benefits were lifted, of course we're not gonna touch it. It costs this country, the government 4 billion kuna, and that's the difference between our social policy and theirs, which also abolished and subsidies to farmers, which would abolish children's allowances and maternity benefits, which would bring again... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37963	Thank you. It's time. Replica response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37964	Thank you. Comrade Matusic, I thank you for this supplement. Your supplement is really part of my thinking. So you're just a certain fact, you certainly elaborated this part of the content that I was talking about once more. And in any case, I can only confirm one more time, which is that we are certainly aware of the position and we know that the crisis is deepened. We also know that we need to find solutions for her. The solutions for it, so I said a little while ago, the government knows and there they are and here they are right ahead of us, and they are actually part of what I just said before, a promising situation and a position that needs to be created to improve the future, to keep jobs and social status as it is right now. So, go on to keep the jobs, not go after the team, as Mr. Linic says you should fire 70,000 people from the state administration, fire 30,000 people from the public administration, call the IMF. I stress this for a reason, gentlemen, because obviously both you and those who support you have been dealing with, therefore, some very controversial and marginal things, and that you know that there is something you must remember and that you will surely remember, and you remember for years, and that is, I repeat, you were extras and you will remain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37965	Thank you. And now we have a replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37966	Comrade Matkovic, you see these intervention laws our SDP sympathisers all the time call it a harachum. And take 2 billion kunas to civil servants and tenants for whom today this government pays both court and interest, etc. Because it came due to the high responsibility of that academic government today at the charge of this government and the reduction of wages of 40% then as we introduce these intervention taxes by 4%, they call, says the system of state administration is being set up. So what they did where they fucked material rights, wages, they took care of the state administration, and they call this a hack. You see, at that time, the Government of Nobel laureates from 2000 to 2003 negotiated with the International Monetary Fund and made stand by arrangements without the knowledge of social partners, without the knowledge of the public and cut their rights drastically without even asking their social partners. Today, when social partners, at least most of the social partners and trade unions are aware, more clearly than they are created situations that are normally not only caused in Croatia, but consequently in Croatia caused by the global financial crisis, they simply gave support because they understand the situation. And then, I say, when the Nobel Government brought such drastic cuts to social rights cuts, it did not consult social partners, nor did it ask them anything, but did it on its own.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37967	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37968	Here's my thanks to you, colleague Kunst. You said absolutely exactly, so you added this part that applies to the history that they obviously wouldn't want to talk about, but it's there because it's also an indicator of what's going on and which is going to follow. In any case, it is clear and well known that they have left a lot of these debts that are still coming back today and with whom the Government has problems today, they have had sex and they would have sex with this today and you can see it, so maybe what our colleague Linic is offering, maybe it's got something good in it, maybe it's got a solution to a part of the crisis, but it's brutal, and we're not for brutality. We, as I said earlier, are for keeping jobs, even with a lower salary, but let it be done. A man has to work, not run out of work. We're for keeping these jobs. And when you mentioned social partners and talks, so I also said a little while ago that it was the government that respected her and wanted to hear the opinion of the social partners in order to get the best solution and she did it, and she did it still to get to the final goal, and that is to outgrown this situation and actually create a position that will be absolutely looking forward to improvements in the future both tomorrow and the time that awaits us. And I'm convinced, and I believe, I'm an optimist.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37969	Thank you. Now it is the turn of the replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matkovic, you mentioned in your discussion and trade unions and what the government is doing, and that prompted me to one answer, or one, here's a replica with you. So the government is doing everything it can and what instruments are available to it to protect the workers, to protect the most sensitive groups, no matter how much opposition we have. How many people do we have in terms of small pensions, I don't even know my salaries, but the government is protecting them. And with all he's doing now, he's protecting those people. Unions by that logic should also protect these people. I don't understand how it's possible for a union head to protect those people, and he calls them into the street, and the street does absolutely nothing. The street just brings new problems. The street guarantees it'll be worse. And no matter how many people are surprised when some of the debates are called demagogue here, some of them say it's not a good street, but at least there's a street. God, when there's nothing else, at least the street. In translation, we want to rule, and we're not really interested in the state of the workers, I don't know or the most endangered. Now I can even understand the opposition part of it, but how do you even understand union representatives who are acting in a certain way as if they've already put on party uniforms which agree, I would say and articulately acts together with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37971	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37972	You're absolutely right, colleague Bagaric, when you were talking about this problem. So, but I'm saying it, and I'd like to say it's just one part of the union. It's not all unions, it's part union leaders. They're the ones who, you're right to say one thing on one side, and here's the call on the other. I think I said in one of my replicas yesterday that it was actually one thing, and you just said it, politics, but that's also shortsightedness. And politics because it's about who it's about. It's about what we hear on the side of the opposition, with desert layoffs and so forth. Well, these are more rigorous measures than what you're saying this government is doing. But then, gentlemen, you have to say that, they have to say that, a colleague of Bagariæ must tell the voters that that is it, and then also those unions should see whether it is it or not. So, to invite someone here to the streets, and on the other hand politically stand behind someone who would fire 100,000 people. I mean, it's proof that it's about politics, but it's also about someone's shortsightedness. Instead of, as I said at the beginning, sit down and negotiate and reach an agreement, be responsible, be realistic, be socially sensitive, and be truly in the right sense, so I repeat myself again responsible for the situation in which we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37973	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37974	Comrade Matkovic, this whole morning return to the past with our citizens can only cause anger and nothing else. The anger on us, and here we are responsible for their fate, because we decide how they will live. Unfortunately, they can decide for themselves every four years or only in the elections. And what you're saying is that almost a million and a half thousand people in Croatia will not pay this special tax. Well, that's a scary thing to talk about in 2009. That means you're not talking about 3,000 kunas. This is said of a thousand 200, a thousand 300, a thousand 800, two thousand, two thousand 200, two thousand 500 kuna received by pensioners and employees. That's what you're saying about those textile workers and salesgirls who do 200 hours and get 3,000 and one lip, and they're gonna have to pay that tax. But that says it's going to freeze and pay and pension in a year or so. That there will be no harmonisation of pensions, that there will be no salary growth for those who have less than 3,000 kuna. But they will pay one percentage point more VAT, but their miserable income will be worth inflation that will not be the one that is now planned in the budget, but is likely to be higher. And then when you say "Government," he knows what he's doing. Well, the government's just being reckless to those who have the least.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37975	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37976	I thank my colleagues Zgrebec and I would like, in any case, at least one part, and I really do, and I think I agree with you in this regard that we are not going back in history. I would agree with you on that point. Absolutely. So now, without any malpractice in it or any demagogue now, my appearance towards you or I don't know what else. I would absolutely agree. But there's this part of why we have to go back to that history for the very same thesis that you've been having in your discussions all day yesterday, and since this morning. And she comes down. My colleague Zgrebec, I didn't interrupt, please. And it comes down to the fact that you're all in your discussions at the end of the debate, and you're invoking actually early elections. What, in fact, did you tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia what would cause early elections? You're not offering any concrete suggestions for this situation we're in. So you'd just deepen the crisis. But explain to the citizens what early elections would mean. Explain that to them. I get it, and I can explain it to them. I explain to the citizens of the city where I live everything I can on coffee when I'm down on Saturdays and Sundays. Explain. And then we won't talk about history either, but explain before the position you're always calling on right now, please. Why don't you say so? It's just that he's emptying out some stories and calling for something. And we're not going to solve anything by calling on the street or the riots or the threats. We'll deal with the situation only by agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37977	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37978	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The early elections would mean that the citizens of Croatia would get a responsible, fair authority that would get you out of the crisis and not sell illusions like the current government does. Here's my colleague Matkovic. I answered your question. You keep calling in history. Here I was not in that historic Racan government that you are constantly calling for, but you have returned to history. This government returned Croatia in 1999, 10 years ago thanks to the inability and unprofessional management of this country. And if you are constantly referring to Racan's authority, you have had six years to correct all her mistakes and to introduce Croatia into a better and better quality life. You failed. You're saying that the government has shown these measures that it wants to save jobs. Wrong. This tax means less consumption, less consumption means less production, less production means less jobs. You keep jobs in the public administration where you have increased your populist policy up to 24 billion per year cost that may have been directed into production, because the only production and jobs in production mean the growth of gross domestic product and a better life for Croatia. So your story about this is one program that shows solutions is actually another proof that this government has been selling illusions for six years now. And that's all you know. Selling illusions, not offering Croatian citizens hope. New elections would mean Croatia's citizens a new hope, hope for a better and better quality life than they have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37979	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37980	So here's the beginning of my colleague Jovanovic you tell him that early elections would give us responsible and fair authority. So here's what actually amazes me is how is it that the same citizens you call on, that they support you in this clearly in what you want, along with those who promote you daily in the media, is how they didn't recognize you at the end of 2007? How have they been supporting the government run by the Croatian Democratic Union with coalition partners for 6 years? So that's one proof of citizens' trust. Other evidence of citizens' trust is now the local elections that were recently held. Here I am specifically elected in the third term. Before that, I was something else. ... So it means the citizens have trust. Thus, citizens at the state level have confidence in the Croatian Democratic Community and coalition partners. So much for your responsibility. Likewise, when you speak of your responsibility to your colleague Jovanovic, you would not suggest anti-recession measures that weigh 15 billion kunas. Who in this situation now and in this position where we are actually solved by either rebalancing or harmonising as we say, income and expenditure? No one would. And you are responsible for the citizens, and you would create measures to add 15 billion more to them. By the way, do you know how much early elections would cost if you had had been responsible in an interregnum once that would have arisen, there is neither an act nor a Parliament, no action nor a government, etc. Comrade Pusic, calm your nerves. Hold on. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37981	No throwing, please. Don't throw it away. Thank you very much. Please don't throw it out of the bench. I'm running a session here, and you need to stick to the ranks. Dear representative, and now you have your word. Replica, distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37982	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate on benches is a regular procedure in all parliaments of the world. If we go back to history, which HDZ insists on all the time. One of the key merits, a fellow MP who is the HDZ one-and-a-half government in this term, is credited with paying back the pensioners. So when we're going back in time, this little segment of debt to the pensioners that you've paid back is a debt to the pensioners that HDZ governments have made before that. And if we're going to go back to history let's look at what's really true. HDZ governments in the 1990s made the debt and now consider it a great credit that one segment of the debt has returned. So let's be honest with the whole truth. The second topic, anything the coalition government has done, can be criticised or not, has been working to increase economic growth. He was 5.4% at the time. This year there is no economic growth, but an economic downturn. Last year was 2.4%. You can say that economic growth isn't important, it's not your goal, but that government's goal was that and it realized that goal. Thirdly, I would recommend to you and other HDZ colleagues that I think it is in your political interest to mention Cacic as little as possible. Because imagine what people are looking at us here, the team could think of how much safer and better they would feel if we now had a government in which economic reactors are run by people like Cacic, Jurcic, Huštrak, Greece. I'm sure they'd feel safer than it is in this situation where they're, like, Calmeta, Shucker and something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37983	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37984	But you're the main actors in the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37985	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37986	Well, here's who's the actor, who's not. I don't want to talk about it, fellow Pusic, because it's the citizens who give the main roles, the side roles, but also the stats. They're citizens who play roles. By the way, at the start of my statement to my colleague Pusic, I would have to correct you for the citizens of Vrgorec, who probably listen to us in part now. I am not the mayor, but the mayor, Vrgorac is not a municipality but a city and it is a city that has its own tradition, its history and its life today. And you should know that as a presidential candidate tomorrow, if you come to that place that it's a city, not a municipality. And I'll tell my citizens you don't even know where he is. What you're saying is like a debt that came into history. Well, yeah, we made it from HDZ, but HDZ was building a state at the time and it had to defend the state. And that debt was created in the war, in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, and it was also necessary to restore the country after the war, which you obviously forget, and I don't want to forget it, because it's the greatest value of this people. And that's that we have our own country won in our Homeland War and I bow down to all those who gave the most valuable, and these are lives and to all those who participated. In the end, you're talking about a decline in economic growth. Let me answer that, too. Just look at more countries where we have a decline in economic growth in Germany, Italy, Sweden, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania, USA, Japan, Slovakia, Romania, HDZ has ruined everything. And in the end, no matter what he's sitting here, of all the numbers that you wanted to run the state tomorrow, I might personally raise my hand for my colleague Jurcic because of the local patriotism. But for these others, I wouldn't be too close, because they've proven themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37987	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual fifth debate of 25. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. By the way, and it's announced this morning that it will work without a break, so let's move on. Those who go, I want a good run. Dear Representative Lesar, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37988	I've already told my colleagues and colleagues that I don't agree with those who call this tax a hack. In fact, the harrassor introduced a foreign government and as far as I know this bill and this proposal for a new tax, no one from Europe and on the side imposes on us but is proposed by the national government. We had a history where we first got bridges. When we dug up Ucka, we got tunnels. After highways, we have tolls, after Ivan Milas in the Council of Excises and is now proposed to introduce hazezarin in Croatia. I think the people's government that proposes a tax like this deserves that honor to be called her name. Secondly, it is only a matter of tax, and none of the rulings will mention that provision of the law which stipulates that this law freezes the harmonisation of pensions by the end of next year to all pensioners and those below 3,000 kuna. So there will be no Swiss formulas in the following year, and they will reduce pensions totaling about 630 million kuna. The effect of this law on the annual level is 2 billion 120 million people and 630 million pension cuts totaling 2 billion 750 million. In the light of the law, this tax is called the solidarity tax. Who are the new taxpayers supposed to be solidarity with? Who invites them to solidarity and with whom? It is further claimed that it is a fair tax. A fair tax is only one that takes into account and determines the tax base income per family article. Any other tax which does not respect that fact cannot be called either just or socially sensitive or otherwise. In the short term, maybe this tax in the state register will bring something, maybe the first three months. In the long term, due to a reduction in the tax base, the state will have the same or less income than before. And secondly, it will increase the gray economy. Even those employers and business owners, and they told me in person who so far had no idea that in the pay lists they were giving one payout and they were really paying off the other, they said now and we are doing it because we are always punished by the letter of the law, respecting this state and its laws. Now we and our workers are once again being burdened by additional burdens and those who are making unfair competition on the market, regardless of whether it is the labour market, capital or services, will be better off than we are. You'll increase the gray economy and get less. Late last night, counterpart Jurcic explained that only 10% of the reasons for the economic crisis in Croatia came from abroad. 90% of the reasons for our crisis were produced alone. And don't call yourself to the world recession, because really, you can only call yourself 10%. Because of the way the tax base is determined, only two absurdities. Let us always consider people with 4000 kuna gross wages because, according to all the regulations in Croatia, there are only gross salaries, gross and nothing but minimum wages. Two workers, one is disabled and the other is not. The invalids pay less taxes and taxes, they get a higher net salary for it. The invalid will pay this tax, a worker who is not disabled with the same salary will not. Let's take an employee with children and a childless employee. Because of child deductions, this one with children has a higher net salary, they will pay this tax and this one without children will not. Let us take an employee in Vukovar and Zagreb because of the cut in Zagreb with the same gross salary net is lower, in Vukovar it is bigger. Vukovari will pay this tax, in Zagreb not or anywhere else with the same gross salary of 4 thousand kuna. And it's a defect in the way of establishing a tax base. But it does not want to be accepted, heard or admitted that it will actually come because this is practically the first tax that the state introduces to net incomes that actually exist anywhere, there is no net salary in Croatia by regulations. This tax will reduce the consumption of citizens. I remind you that in the first six months, sales in the store have dropped to a little 17%. With the increase in VAT and the introduction of this tax and the psychological effect that you are causing in the people, this psychological effect in all crisis situations leads to an increase in interest, a reduction in personal consumption of citizens, a nervousness in which the income of the state falls. Now it will come again that citizens will spend less, less shopping, you will have fewer VAT and excise incomes, our production will be less able to sell, therefore it will have bigger supplies, higher costs and will start a redundancy wave of workers, there will be a smaller tax base and there will be no major effect but at the beginning or end of this year. And I simply cannot understand why all these arguments that are not only given here in the Assembly but which has given a large number of independent economic or tax experts to listen to, appreciate and accept it as a fact. The only reason we can see that because of the great panic that has arisen in the government is because of the moves that immediately in two weeks must lead to a new inflow into the state budget, but the grey economy is indeed an area in which two months or two weeks you can't get results. And now you're putting her aside, and you're not touching her right now because you don't have time and she's going to stay, and she's eating 25 to 30% of the gross social product. It destroys businessmen, entrepreneurs who want to do business by law and pay taxes and contributions for their employees. Consider how those who will be forced to move or go to the gray area of the economy will now have to behave because of those you have tolerated so far. I really can't, and I don't want to vote for the introduction of hazezarin to the poor, and I'm re-proposing that you introduce hazezarin to your tycoons, property and capital gains that are made by dividends, sale of shares and interest. Then you'll be able to tell if it's not enough for the people to call for solidarity to save the situation. In Croatia this tax, this HDZ-arina is not needed, but it does require new and capable authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37989	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37990	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, I fully agree with your exposure. People were following us yesterday afternoon very carefully and I was asked an hour ago, just about what you were just saying, about the "just" taxes and the position of the disabled, here I read a few sentences from an older gentleman from Korčula. "I'm 88 years old, 100% body damage, my wife in 89 years. I belong to wealthy pensioners. I have a pension of 6125 kuna. Many taxes, "just taxes" as you call them, will take away my 691 kuna." The man is an economist, and he calculated it very quickly. "These 691 kunas mean life to me. Nobody asks me where I'm gonna come from in four hours to help out in the house for me and my wife, because we're almost 90 years old, nobody asks me how I'm gonna cover the directories, and they're almost 2,000 kuna. My wife is sick. We're spending 1,000 kuna on drugs. For me, 691 kunas mean less life." So, and the position of people who have large pensions is compromised. So much for our social sensitivity and rebalance and the law and everything this government does.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37991	Thank you. I've been consulting a little bit, it's not going to be 600, it could be if it's 4% 240 a month, and it's being multiplied annually. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37992	Comrade Doric, the man who contacted you correctly calculated the amount you said because he also calculated the VAT increase by 4.5%. One index point of VAT growth is not 1% VAT increase, that is 4.5% and one to 22. Mobile telephony excise duties, VAT hikes by one index point, and the introduction of a new tax I called HDZ. On the home budget of three or two members with an average salary bear more than 650 kuna new costs, depending on whether or not you are disabled, have or have no children and which city or municipality in Croatia you live in. And that's the inequality that really brought... the inequality of citizens in the tax system in front of the laws of this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37993	Thank you. Dear Zgrebec, an individual debate, is on the way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. With these few laws that we're going to discuss today and tomorrow, we're actually getting into the tax system. And what does our Constitution say about the tax system? According to Article 51, everyone is obliged to participate in public spending settlement in accordance with their economic opportunities and the tax system is based on the principles of equality and justice. And what does our Constitution say about the receiving of those who work? In this regard, Article 55 of our Constitution, paragraph 1, states that each employee has a right to earn money that can ensure a free and decent life for himself and his family. So when we talk about a tax system that taxes income from work, we should be guided by the principles of the Constitution. And what are we doing? We propose this law to introduce a special income tax from work and pensions, in other words a income tax which is already our employees and part of the pensioners' salaries, but on that part they have so far paid, they have also had tax reliefs from personal deductions and for dependent family members. For this particular tax, they don't have it. So, it is proposed to tax income from wages and pensions that is greater than 3,000 kuna to 6,000 kuna with 2% and which is over 6000 kuna with 4%. At the same time, all pensions are frozen, regardless of their height by the end of 2010. What does that mean? This means that those who have less than 3000 kuna will also have a pension reduction. Their pensions will not be harmonised, but inflation will be affected by it, so harmonisation actually means eliminating some of the inflation that is accumulated in one country over the year. What does that mean? We'll pass a law on increasing VAT rates from 22% to 23%. This means greater inflation by the end of 2009, especially during the whole of 2010 when the law will apply. How will that affect the pensioners? Those who already pay income tax because they have a higher pension and their personal up to 3000 kuna do not pay income tax, so they are already paying a 15% income tax rate. Before long, we introduced them an extra tax that we don't call tax, but we call it a contribution to health care 3%. What do those who receive wages from work pay for? So far, they pay income tax in the range, depending on the receipts, from 15% to 45% and pay the paratax which is called a health contribution of 15.5% and only they finance the health care tax. Now we should also pay a new special tax which is actually income tax and labour tax. What happens when we say that this is a fair tax, that this is a tax that is social, which is solidarity, etc. I'll only tell you two examples of what it means in a family where two employees are employed and one and the other employees receive a salary of 3000 kuna and 1 June. Both family members will have a 2% tax rate and will pay 120 kuna in total. Their net income will be less than the one who is not obliged to pay taxes, so their net income will be 2940 kuna. But what if he only works 1 in the family and makes 6 grand and 1 lip or 2 lipes like this family where he works two? He will already have to pay 4%, but for the total amount and he will pay 240 kuna or twice as much as in families who have the same income, but work two. So that's that solidarity and justice. And who won't pay anything? The one who doesn't, but rents ten apartments or five apartments. He won't pay that special tax. No tax will be paid by anyone who puts 10 million kuna into the bank and now, according to such passive interest that our bank makes between 7 and 9% achieves several million kunas of interest income, he will not pay any tax, he will not pay a VAT, he will not pay a tax on income, he will not pay this particular tax either. One who gets a dividend paid in million amounts will also not pay taxes. I was already here in parliament saying that in the last year, 4.6 billion kunas of dividends were paid on which no one paid a single dime of taxes. 50% of that, actually more than 2 billion kunas went outside Croatia because shareholders are foreign owners. It didn't work out for them. They paid taxes on such income in their countries because European countries, in particular the European Union, pay both capital tax and property tax. In the old members of the European Union, I have now read some information that 5% of total tax revenues are collected from the property tax. And since we're already in the tax system, then we should have a bigger coverage of those who don't pay taxes so far, not a bunch of tax write-offs on those who already participate in filling the state budget and all other, of course, local budgets. The bigger the tax and the bigger the tax press, the smaller the effects on income. If it's bigger taxes, there's bigger evasion. It avoids paying them, increases the grey economy, increases payouts to black. This means a further drop in purchasing power, that means a drop in production, that means less jobs, but that means lower revenues in the state budget. So, like I said yesterday, the glue that wants to patch a broken jug won't hold for long, it won't give the effects, especially the effects that the government has calculated for, and it won't really represent anything else, but that those who have so far paid the maximum, who have put up with the burden of war and the burden of transition will now have to bear the burden of the crisis that is not, as the government has kept telling us, and today it has been said to the world in Croatia. The only question is, if it's too much, who's it going to sink? By now, many have submerged, the government is justifying itself that it wants to keep its head above water by introducing new taxes, but while the government keeps its head above water, so many have submerged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37995	Thank you. We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37996	So, fellow Zgrebec, you've shown exactly one total absurdity. So today we have a situation that in certain administrations of certain companies there are people who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and people who are not. And now a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia on his contribution from dividends or gains they have embedded in the contract do not pay any taxes. A person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, which is in that administration and under the same management contract, has the right to compensation or distribution of profits, when returning to his country must pay taxes. And now there we're helping the economy of Italian, Austrian German, and we're not going to take from our managers who are richly rewarded for it, but we're going to take from the pensioners and from the workers. We will also not tax the option shares which are a special form of reward for what is done in the administrations, which unfortunately are not won as a reward for the company's success, but a reward for achieving business plans. The management defines a business plan, a business plan is insufficiently ambitious and management achieves it and you now have a situation where a company has allegedly paid almost 100 million kunas of optional shares in the last 8 years. On those 100 million kunas, none of those managers paid a dime. So when you get 10 million kunas of option shares, there's no tax, when you get a pension of 3 001 kuna you have 60 kuna taxes. Therefore, this is neither a socially sensitive tax, it is neither fair nor even equal, it is simply a tax on poor people who are taken to continue waste in the country wastefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37997	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37998	If we had charged a 15% tax on these 4.6 billion kuna last year as it was by 2003 on the dividend payment, we would have made a little more than, or anywhere near, 700 million kuna. If the tax administration were to control all the benefits that counterpart Mršić has, these members of the management, large companies, so that they use official apartments, villas, and do not pay rent for it, that is their income used by official cars for 24 hours, that is their income, which they use for vacations and yachts, that is their income. And if it were to be included in their income incomes they had to pay a income tax of 45%, then they really shouldn't tax those who receive 3,000 and 1 lip.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u37999	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Biserka Vrbanić. Here you go. Vranic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38000	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I must say, we've said a lot today about the crisis situation. After all, the situation is so complex that we should all really think about what we can do for this country and get it out of the crisis as soon as possible. The introduction of taxes has been known since the early Middle Ages and is not new and even a child in primary school can be estimated to be the simplest and fastest way to introduce tax on a regular paying group and which is the most numerous in the country and that this can result in large savings, i.e. in a quick way and easy to create a certain fund for spending. I must say that I am extremely surprised by one slow, obsolescence and one completely wrong way of working and our tax advisers and those who advise the minister and the government, because in these crisis situations we can use to bring some papers, some changes, some quality solutions, because the crisis can also be a chance for a solution to something that, under normal circumstances and normal conditions, we have neither courage nor will nor can do so. But we've taken over an old medieval, old-fashioned model hitting the regiment, so the regiment will somehow pay for it. Honestly, I'm not sure that's going to hold water for a long time, because this population group that we're putting pressure on to raise taxes is actually a group that forms the foundation of our society. The most vulnerable group, which most often means both workable or are pensioners who have such a pension. We've heard many times today and yesterday which groups we haven't touched. Well, normally, we're not going to touch those groups up to 3,000 kunas, when they're already on the verge of power and on the verge of being able to live normally, so we hit those little-quality group of 3,000 kunas, like it's about 3,000 euros or some kind of figure that, if you cut it, say, and those 150 kunas are nothing significant. That's how we reduced that group's purchasing power, that's how we created the possibility of a situation of fear, mistrust in the state, the situation that you don't actually know how you're going to survive from today to tomorrow. I don't know why, I'm going back to tax advisors and experts who still gave their word here. They forgot that there are a number of things in this country that we can never end and solve their status and exploit these resources that we have, rather than act like drunken billionaires and forget that we have huge amounts of unbuilt building land in this country. That we have huge amounts of unused entrepreneurial infrastructure. That we have a large amount of extra living space. That we have huge parcels of raw agricultural land. That we have huge bonuses in public enterprises. That we have people who have huge stock and who don't even pay taxes. We also have other resources. I think of those intellectual ones here, and I think that in today's crisis, we use them too little, as other European countries do, to invite experts who know something, who have the guts to suggest something, and that we have the courage to listen to people who know something. We're not strictly sticking to some model that we like, we're the fastest, simplest, and we're destroying this little population that we have. This situation will not last long, and in the fall, the first signs of this law will be seen and I think it will be really difficult for both the position and the opposition to convince the crowd of that people that this is normal and that this is necessary for the state. That's where we've heard frequent shootings that are actually unnecessary. We're all responsible here, no matter which side we're sitting on. It is normal that the position is more responsible, because out of 19 years of government, 15 years has run this country. So it is normal for all the good and bad responsibility to be borne by the one who is the longest in power, and we should not go into any debate at all, because the problems in which we are located are the problems of all of us and they will in the autumn, possibly in winter really show us their true face, so the question is whether the Croatian state will bear the pressure of the poor population, pensioners and others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38001	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38002	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. So here at the beginning I have to express as a man who understands what is happening and what might come after the adoption of this law, one deep regret that is being introduced now and introduced in this way, is the effects that will produce are recession and this law, as well as all the laws that create new taxes, and you said there will be no new taxes, will cause recession effects, i.e. to accelerate the path to stagnation of the Croatian economy, i.e. the collapse of the tax base. You could've listened yesterday, Professor. The turquoise and what he was saying, and that's the taste of everything. In Croatia, we now have a certain economic mass which is a de facto tax base for all forms of taxation, as well as for this. If you had directed money into the economy by this tax and by raising value added tax in such a way as to create added value, a new value would have been created in terms of economic growth. This is the only redistribution between the participants of society. The state takes part of the citizens and the economy. The state will spend that money, the citizens and the economy, the money taken from them will not be spent, and the effect of everything is an even deeper sink that will follow the introduction of these taxes. And it's very clear and follows from economic theory. So new taxes in the recession situation, when the whole world, Europe, the United States, are doing exactly the opposite, taxing the economy, taxing the citizens, entering a major deficit to just boost economic growth, and to just encourage the creation of new values, taxes in this part on the weak Croatian economy are acting exactly the opposite and destroying the tax base. And it will feel. That's what all economists who don't understand economic theory know. Why? Because there is a clean redistribution between the economy and the citizens and the state. And there are two effects. First citizens will have to pay more, the state will collect more and will not create a new value with this money, because it is likely to meet the obligations of the past, and we know that Croatia has reached 17 billion indifference and that the state has outstanding obligations that it does not pay for 180 days or longer. While on the other hand, the businessmen are in a situation where they have to pay a tax on extra value immediately. So on the one hand, the state will use that money not only for liquid liquidity but also for the settlement of past liabilities. On the other hand, that money is not invested in the economy. Citizens are reduced in income. As soon as the income is reduced to the citizens, their purchasing power is lower. As soon as they weaken their purchasing power, less value added tax will be added. But not only is this happening to any other effect, which is why we have also increased our credit risk to the outside and which is why we have grown among other things and interest rates in Croatia. It is consumer pessimism on the one hand and fiscus or fiscal policy behaviour on the other. When citizens see it being taken to settle the current liquidity in public finances, to heal old debts, they delay their consumption. And actually this effect of the first punch in the pocket will already be seen next month or month after that, by making VAT revenues from consumption itself fall further. Not only is income available less, but also because this is a message for citizens, do not spend it. Therefore, the analysis of the revenues of 750 million from this particular income tax, or 1.3 billion, can be made freely by the end of the year, because this achievement of these analyses will certainly not happen for these two reasons. This process and tax collection process works very briefly. It's the effect of a month of two, no more than three days, then there'll be a saturation, or what is said in classical theory, that renormation to an even lower value than at which it is now. With this, we're just speeding up the tax base collapse. Why? Because we're doing exactly the opposite of what developed states are doing coming out of recession. So what are they doing? They give liquidity as long as it takes the economy. They bring down the interest rate and their central banks and the state itself. On the other hand, they are studying the budget deficit but precisely to stimulate economic growth. They do not increase the budget deficit to patch up holes or old commitments, but to boost economic growth and create a new value. Now that new value when taxed, then it can bring extra income. And on the other hand, on the third hand, they protect citizens from giving them consumer optimism through the protection of their citizens and encouraging them to spend. What we're doing with these bill proposals is exactly the opposite of that, and that's why we see that the policy run by the Ministry of Finance is non-fiscal, it's tax policy. On the one hand pick up, on the other hand spend. Get in, get out. Get in, get out. No vision of what's essentially going on in the real economy. It cannot be tax and fiscal, fiscal policy cannot be planned on the basis that you assume that the man who bought the apartment today and paid the VAT of 22%, i.e. now 23 of August 1st, will buy and pay VAT for 5 years. Well, he won't. He won't buy it in 50 years, maybe the way it went. That's what this is about. Responsible policy must be taken into account in which way the tax will be delivered... And on the third hand, we heard what is actually the real cause of the economic crisis in Croatia, which is definitely not the global economic crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Part of the global economic crisis can only be seen in the absence of cheap borrowing under those conditions. First Croatian financial system did not invest in second bag... in the United States, in securitised liabilities of second-rate debtors, means the Croatian financial system definitely did not invest in it, so this wave of crisis certainly did not hit us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the third hand and on the other hand, when you see what else has happened. If production and what Jurcic was saying fell by 10%, and Croatian exports participated in that part of 10%, and the global economic crisis is primarily a crisis of what is exported, what cannot be sold, exchanges with abroad, or foreign effects on the domestic economy, then this impact of the crisis is very easy to calculate 1 through 10. 10%. The global crisis is involved with 10% in the global Croatian crisis, 90% of the internally generated domestic crisis. The only reason is, the only obstacle is that we can't borrow as cheaply as we could borrow before, and that's when I talked about VAT, I mentioned that new taxes are a debt addiction, they're easy to get into, but it's hard to get out. When new taxes are introduced they are difficult to abolish, this will also be seen as an example of this tax that will certainly not be abolished in a year and a half. Well, I'm afraid, regardless of whether they're early elections or not they're early elections, because there's simply not going to be a lot of funding and all those impositions that are exactly the opposite of policies that Europe and the world are doing to get out of the recession not to save the budget, but they're speeding up the collapse of the tax base. That should be kept in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38003	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Antun Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38004	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague also said other partners yesterday and today, so this global economic crisis has nothing to do with Croatia. Even the esteemed professor. Jurcic seemed to mention 10% to me. And now you say they're wrong, it's not good to have this tax. I will now mention to you only an example of the wood industry, to deny what you have stated that there is no crisis. The wood industry is exporting, it's exporting. If it exports to the European Union, if Italy alone has 35% of the European market, then the owners of that wood industry are investors with us just the Italians, as it doesn't matter. It does matter, because the market has fallen by more than 30%, the number of workers has fallen, or we are talking now, because this tax we're talking about should now be paid to that company, probably to pay for that day. Therefore, a colleague is not exactly what you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38005	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38006	A colleague of Bernardić, you said and referred to a colleague of Jurčić who commented on the impact of the global financial crisis on the crisis in Croatia. The impact of the crisis cannot be measured in absolute numbers, it is not a temperature in the air that we can measure by thermometer and say today is 32 degrees. So easy to say that 10% is the impact of the global crisis and 90% that our domestic structural problems are little sometimes pretentious and unserious. The truth that the impact of the crisis has been felt in Croatia, that the crisis in Croatia has been partly caused by the global financial crisis and by the work and internal problems, and I have often said these internal problems even come from the process of transition, the process of conversion and privatisation that comes today at the collection. And we're not going to get out of these difficulties for a few more years that come to our attention because of the wrong moves 15 or ten years ago, or at any point earlier. The spilling of the crisis is also a psychological moment. Only one article in the paper is enough that one institution will fail and that institution will fail without any foreign crisis at all. One careless move is enough to say that next year inflation will be 10%, and surely because of such a statement, action and inflation will be so that we can talk about the impact of the global crisis... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38007	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38008	But we can't talk about strict demarcation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38009	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38010	Here's fellow Maric, I agree with you that we cannot determine at an exact amount. But I was just trying to give you the amount of that grade. So in the exact amount sure that we can't determine and this is exactly this psychological effect I was talking about because the message of the new tax isn't good, it works by delaying consumption, it works by saving and reducing the tax base. You know as well as I do. What I still have to tell you is when we talked about what Agent Mance said about the wood industry. Well, yeah, it's just exports of wood products that may have fallen 30%, but what we're getting out of the wood industry. Raw materials, we sell it to the Italians. I'd like us to export most of the furniture. We sell to the Italians so that those who have such companies expensive brands would return the same goods to the Croatian wood processed here and sell at much more expensive prices. That's the problem. We in the Croatian wooden industry do not add value and this effect is very small. I wish we had a 30% drop but on expensive furniture products. Unfortunately, it's not like that. We give them wood, they produce expensive furniture and this expensive furniture here we sell in Croatia. It's an effect. This assessment is simply an attempt to approximate the extent of the global crisis compared to Croatia but I also agree with you that the feeling is psychological, it is deeper and therefore new taxes also delay consumption and deepen the crisis. This is one of those cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38011	Thank you. Let's move on, the 9th in a row of 25 distinguished MP Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38012	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that the government's proposal for such a law shows that it is in complete chaos before the final bankruptcy. We have seen this and what power of argument defends this law. So there's no argument. It's only possible as long as we were under the light cameras the arguments of high decibels and escape to the near or distant past, past such or such or even falsified past. So instead of a solution they offer excuses, instead of looking into the future which she is more indistinguishable it is a further look into the future. So here's how it all came down, and if this surprised the government itself, I'd say not because far away, now in 2004, that same government banned the gathering, banned protests on Mark's square. Why then? So her mission and vision was the well-being of its own, its closer and further but not its citizens. It has shown from the very beginning, from that far back in 2004 that it does not wish to share the fate of its own citizens or those who have given it confidence and who have thus played it facelessly. This law is a law against an individual, against a man, against his family, those who are the most valuable and most diligent in respecting the state, its laws, and in tax payments despite their bloody profit of bread if they have even the opportunity to earn it. So this law really is never a wasteland to repeat that it's just a hack after the last collapse. This is an injustice indeed that cries out to heaven, so it really is a question of whether it is a supreme cynicism to call now on responsibility and solidarity to those to whom the state should help. And now the same poor and deceived must save not the state but the ruling furniture in order to maintain power for another month. So, from the very beginning, the government has not realized that power is nothing but responsibility, and at all times it is always an act of escape from responsibility. It's always someone else's fault, someone else's third, closer or further, never them. And then it couldn't have ended like this. This is the normal consequence of the abnormal condition since 2004 and in its own since 2007. And as they get in the pocket of those poor people who take care of their families, the little kids they need to be educated, raise them up. What's the state doing parallel to that? Lets you rob her and watch her calmly. They don't need any special investigators to do that or cover it up, that's what's happening to her. No one bears responsibility, no charge for the theft of the mine treasure, there are large excavations visible but almost now from the moon. The state isn't responding at all. So if that's possible, we're asking a question. But it's not just the way the state robs itself. In parallel with this, what irony comes also the Law on Tourism and Building Land, which we thought we had promised to previous owners, to whom the state should have returned the basis of the law on confiscated property, but also solved the issue of illegal use of land, huge, millions and millions of squares that have been illegally held for years, almost now for decades by tourism companies, companies. And now instead of charging that bill, because that's what's reserved for the state, precisely because it didn't enter the core capital of those companies and now this law almost gives them away. The state is even obliged to give them, sell, give them in a privileged concession. Therefore, even concession provisions are being played, one of the most important anti-corruption laws and, under the obligation or special public exposure of Minister Shuker, that no individual law will address the issue of concession differently. So, by law, we allow these provisions to be played out and that directly or indirectly looting what is left of the most important, and that's the people's property, the treasure that all the kidnappers and conquerors who have been, coming, going, or being driven away, have not alienated it, and now we're doing it, now you're doing it. Prime Minister Sanader, the former prime minister, the one who got us into this, the one who untraceably disappeared, the one who ran away and told us not to give a metre or a centimeter to the foreigners, and now gives them miles and miles of squares at the same time as he reaches into the poorest's pocket. I said yesterday there's really no room for surprise, because it's not the first time. Every time it works, people believe it. If there's been any leaks, it's not possible we can be so wrong. Is it possible that the government can cheat so much? A fraud can really come to power, but fraud cannot remain, at least not for so long in power. There's no one who doesn't feel irony in the name and in the light of this law that this is a tax of solidarity. And then the question arises how today's incompetent government can remove this budget deficit, how it will remove that deficit when the number of pensioners due to the catastrophic and demographic situation in Croatia rises from a million and 16 to more than a million-and-a-half pensioners, and the businessmen are pressured and they no longer have the strength to deal with globalised capitalism and to choose their place in such a single market. If the government will not listen to the voice of reason and if it makes such a harmful decision, then we will be the principle of civil disobedience, said unionist Matijasevic. And there will be no such ban... gatherings on Mark's square, and it will obviously be narrow and Split's waterfront. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question is, well, there have been capable, less capable, incompetent governments, but the question is, what kind of people are you when you take away these people, so there are other ways to take away. Here are only a few examples, that you may charge for what is wrongfully held by those who have become rich on the property of the people, on the land, on the mining of the treasure of the mine. It's millions and millions, dozens and dozens of millions, if not hundreds. But what does the government do? So, not only does it bring parallel to such laws that it still wants to bless, but it still remains on the defender of megalomanic investments, and in fact, when such investments are at stake we never knew at the beginning how much it would cost and how long such construction would take. We never found out, there's always room for extra extensions, for extra extensions, because of course it costs more than that. Therefore, this law, which is presented in addition as an anti-recession measure, is one of the worst possible measures, to rob its own people. The best tax is an old tax, and we've heard here countless times that those taxes that when they're introduced are difficult then and when there's absolutely no excuse, they're hard to break. That is why this is an opportunity to tell citizens that they have no more and that they are no longer asking for any of this authority and do not wonder what that power can do for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38013	Thank you. Your time is up!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38014	But they can make her deny her vote in the next election.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38015	You're out of time. Thank you. And please two things one more time. Let's stick to the subject and let's talk about what's on the agenda and what's on the agenda and what's on the other hand, stay away from those hard words. So don't do it, I mean we're still here in the Croatian Parliament. Please don't make me warn you about that. It's the honorary representative Arsen Bauk. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38016	Here, I'll buy the coffee, can I just get started? You make a deal. Nothing, I'm asking you to put a stopwatch at the beginning even though I don't think I'm gonna be talking all ten minutes, but I'm done today. ... Can I go now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, Mr. Vice President, colleagues, colleagues. This law on one more tax and always remembers well and whoever pays taxes, pays taxes, of course, this tax will be paid by those people who get paid and who get paid or some other income over 3000 kuna. And what is the role of the state in determining who will pay the tax? The role of the state is, in fact, that of those who have some money collected in the state budget and then based on their political decisions, by the basis of a applicable law, divide people in a way or institutions in a way that they think is best to manage the state. And that's where the state actually decides to take whom, and to whom to give by its policy and by passing laws and by some other regulations. And this government has made it clear who to take from, but it's unclear who to give to. In fact, they will take everyone, so to those who will pay this tax, to those who earn more than 3,000 kuna, and to all, they are those who will pay more prices because of the increase in VAT, and to whom they give, that is already one slightly bigger problem. So again to give in irrationally large and expensive state administration, to give in projects of suspicious quality, not to say quality and suspicious motives, to give in everything that Croatian citizens should not pay for, but here, they will pay. What did the SDP suggest? He proposed a set of amendments that would reduce the state's contribution by a billion and 600 million kuna, and that the quality of life, the service of the state in Croatia would not fall. And they wouldn't take anyone. And that's exactly the difference between what the SDP government could do and what the HDZ government and its partners are doing. During these discussions, we wondered what wealth was? Are those who have over 3,000 kunas rich? However, I am not sure that by determining the rate of this tax, consideration has been taken of who is rich and who is not. It was simply calculated how much money needed, it was seen how much the average salary in the Republic of Croatia was and what structure it was and then it was cut off where it had to be. Therefore, this is not a tax to protect the most vulnerable, the poorest, this is simply to take from those of whom we can still take something. If that were the case, he showed, of course, the whole last week when he didn't even know what this tax would look like. It started from 8%, and then it was 5%, so it was 3%, and then these two rates of 2 and 4, and then they were talking about the whole pay, what's above. So the word is there's going to be a 25% VAT increase, 24%, 23%. So there weren't now some big and brilliant economic analysis to see the impact of this on economic developments, but it simply took the calculator, there were so many salaries over 3,000, so that's over 6 thousand times 2%, times 4, that's so much money. Without some large views of how this will now have an impact on economic movements again, whether employers will now report people to 2999 kuna or 5999, etc. After all, one who has 6 001 kuna will pay 240 kuna tax, and one who has 5 999 kuna will pay 119 and some kuna taxes, therefore in that part at least a small law is unfair. This is actually ad hoc tax. So, last week we've been listening to the rate changes and the rate between this tax rate and the end, here's like in this circle of luck, so all the luck Friday was the last day the government had to decide, and then they decided this way to 2 and 4%. Maybe if it was a Saturday, Sunday would be better, maybe it would be worse, we'll never know. So, we all pay 1% of the larger VAT, and the citizens, who earn more than 3,000 kuna, will pay something more from the salary, in fact they will not pay, for them will be paid by employers, that is, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office for each case, because the budget needs money, the state needs money and, of course, they do not choose the funds to reach them. And another solution to cut the budget, to cut the expenditure was not wanted, could not or did not want to find. There wasn't enough political will or strength to do that. In the debate of course on the budget, Minister Schucker assures us that this cannot, that some rights cannot be cut, that some items cannot be cut, that some investments cannot be cut. I've gotten the impression that he actually said he can't do anything, which in many ways he might agree with the real situation, and I don't think he can just do it, but he can't do this whole government. That is why, of course, it is necessary for citizens to decide what kind of government they still want because, on these promises you received, this trust that the government received from citizens in November 2007 on this blue poster against new taxes, this promise is obviously a failure. So you don't have a mandate for this anymore. My colleagues and colleagues, this is no ordinary tax. I can only finish with one sentence. This is a tax that leads you to defeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38017	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative, Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38018	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives who remained in the Chamber and representatives of the Government. If either of us or any citizen had been gone from this country for a month and a half, two months the last two months, if he'd been on a long journey, and now suddenly he's back, turned on the television, I believe he wouldn't have made it clear. You wouldn't know what we're discussing here today. Are we all out of our minds? What kind of crisis is this all of a sudden? Well, until just two months ago, we were living in a state of prosperity, building sites were opening, dividing, promising free textbooks, opening public works. It was a global crisis, but, see, the finance minister said that the wave of the crisis will not affect Croatia, it will not be transferred to Croatia. Today we hear from colleagues on the other side of the assembly that we're amazed by that wave that shouldn't have caught us. Now we're introducing crisis taxes on net receipts and from today to tomorrow from the clear sky. Yesterday there was as much criticism in this assembly as today, and there would still be a lot of criticism at the expense of this government. Yesterday, at one point, Mrs. Prime Minister said we were here to take it all. Well, I guess she meant the rest of the government that stayed here after the lead actor of this, so that I could call her executive theatre families gone and now she's resting on luxury yachts on the beautiful sea of our country that he and his dawn have devastated. Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia is acting on me as a theatre group. She just makes a good impression and creates special effects. According to our Croatian government, everything is wonderful with us. There, we are, even Minister Schucker said, meeting the master's deficit criteria, and I guess that's why he wants to leave the impression that everything is under control again. However, despite the fact that the opening statements both yesterday and today by the government's representative and the ruling majority are peaceful and wants to calm the fears triggered by these proposals among our citizens. The manner in which these measures are imposed is fire-fighting and show only how money must be created from somewhere in the empty state register, from today to tomorrow. It must be created, and of course it will be taken directly from citizens' pockets. Because even those who do not receive less than 3,000 kuna will collect VAT and the prices will go up. I call on citizens to go to the store today to write down the prices of basic lifestyles and food supplies and let them go in a month. Very likely, almost certainly prices will be more expensive, because I personally believe that, in fact, I do not, but I doubt the social sensitivity of our trade chains. The hack on all receipts, salaries, pensions and receipts of more than 3,000 kunas, even the secretary of state has not yet answered my previous question whether to tax even the additions to disability and physical damage. So please respond. Here's the climate that doesn't, but let's let it say that the citizens believe it. Will income tax be taxed, i.e. incomes held by members of the clergy, clerics, just as I asked before. They are also paid from the state budget and should share the fate of all other citizens. The way I'm going to call him a hacker on a net salary is a measure of despair, as well as raising VAT, as well as a whole rebalancing as a whole. The government acts as if a meteorite has fallen on Croatia. People ask you on the road what kind of crisis now? What a tax of solidarity, as the government and coalition partners call it here. It's not a tax of solidarity. It's an undertone of common sense. The taxation of solidarity would be if, for example, Croatia were to hit an earthquake, tsunamis, meteorite or not, God forbid a repeat war. At that time, Croatian citizens would willingly, I am sure, make their contribution within their own capabilities, how they could do it. But this isn't the case. Now all together pay for incompetence, superficiality and irresponsibility of state leadership, which after many years has culminated. I'm saying that the government is acting like a meteorite has fallen on Croatia, because now it's suddenly admitting that we're in trouble. Now all of a sudden, we're in a crisis and this crisis where you want to make an impression literally fall from the sky. She came out of nowhere and came down on all of us. Citizens want to live to some extent, citizens have lived normal so far, it is difficult and now they don't know what's going on. Croatia has taken over the atmosphere of fear and uncertainty. This is a trauma for the whole people. When the SDP in the campaign for the last parliamentary elections warned that this would happen, that the chronic responsibility and the non-productivity of our economic system would turn into a collapse, you made fun of us. When we proposed taxing large capital, you tried to make us a bauk, creating an impression that it would probably tax the maids on the plains, or markets. You have pasted all of Croatia with posters that my colleague Maras has tried to pull out and show how he will demonstrate here a colleague, and you have guaranteed, of course, that we remember from the previous elections, that you will not raise VAT with your guarantee cards. But you're making it bigger. And these are historical facts that you can't deny. But the history of HDZ rule repeats itself. '99. We were in a similar situation, now we're psychological and in the same situation. People compare that. We are on the verge of economic collapse, in chronic indifference, and in some way again in some kind of international isolation. But then came another government that you are still calling today, which ruled for only 3 years and which has rehabilitated and stabilised the country's finances, had the largest economic growth and implemented decisive measures to bring state finances into order and to open Croatia to the world. Meanwhile, HDZ's theatre group received a new director and re-entered the scene. She had impressive performances and special effects in which Prime Minister Sanader's main character was then a recently saved everything and everyone. And again, it continued with old practice, and we went back to where we were in '99. And history will show, dear colleagues and colleagues, whether this time it was 200 wealthy families or some other number. You call us that Racan's government, a coalition government that ruled an incomplete mandate, has left a debt and deficit. Yeah, but you know where he's spent. This went to the roads that brought great development and that forever changed the traffic face and concept of our country, the huge debts that had left behind previous years of HDZ rule, which, let's not forget, also robbed pensions and social property. '99. The country was on the verge of a break-in as it is today, and I guess it's pretty clear why. This country is ruled irresponsiblely by the HDZ government. The state budget was seen as its own bank account and means of purchasing votes, and so did those elections that were not full 2 months ago when construction sites were officially opened throughout Croatia and the impression was that we were living in a welfare state. But you know what these fire measures will lead us to, and the biggest economic experts have said that they will only bring these taxes to the break of state finances in the short term, but in the long run they are not going anywhere. But you also know that by that moment, you will probably all be on some kind of yachts and vacations, and you will not look back to see what kind of desolation remains. But go on vacation. We are still a democratic country and citizens will choose a better future. They won't let this same show happen again for the third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38019	Thank you. I still have to intervene a little bit, we don't know where you found this pay phone saying that Croatia is in international isolation. It's us. ... What does that mean in a way? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Either it is, or it isn't. And secondly, as far as I'm concerned, I'm glad to see you, you have a beautiful color. So you enjoyed the grace and the sea and the sun, and you should enjoy it further. Let's move on. Don't throw it away. Let's move on with the individual debate. Honorable representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38020	Thank you very much, Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the ministry. I want to get involved in this debate, although I think that these discussions both yesterday and today, and all these legal regulations, everyone uses that pay phone somehow to touch each other and the third, because that problem is somehow connected. I must say that I was present as a representative of a particular minority and a coalition partner at the talks when, to put it this way, they agreed in the government and I must also point out that at the first moment I was not thrilled with taxes like this. However, when the situation in which it is in total is explained, and on the other hand that it is in a certain way, I would say fire measures, and if I were parallel, I stress this, because this is especially important to me, that in parallel over the next year, for a year and a half will work on long-term measures. So the special finance minister has insisted on this, that the spending party must be reduced, reassessed, etc. And I honestly expect that, just in the course of these years, the provisions of these laws will really work, that a better move will be made. To go back to this subject about these taxes. A little while ago, I spoke to a fellow pensioner's representative about it, because I feel like the whole situation is being a little dramatic in a material sense. I must also point out that it is probably a different position or situation for those people who will be hit in urban areas compared to rural areas, meaning rural areas. When I was trying to look at it a little bit like my seat, or seat, municipalities, villages, then I came up with data that there were a hundred and a few pensioners, maybe a dozen of them that had over 3,000. But that all 10 is normal to make over 3,000 or 3,000 pensions, were in such places, positions, positions that they had salaries of 5, 6, 7 or more. And they, in a certain way, when they were active, solved their basics, took care of it. Even two, three of them out of their pensions are helping their unemployed children, etc. So, that particular category in the villages, I don't see much of a problem. As far as these other social moments are concerned. I'll say a few words about that also with quite concrete practices down in the field. These people who receive certain social assistance and this whole social problem should be subject to a major review. I gave the former minister, an initiative I launched back in 2000. Unfortunately, however, neither the county nor the ministry likely did. I didn't get any answers. In fact, we have such a situation down there that many users of these various social benefits, even if they have a child with a child's allowance, that is to say it's not worth working for 2, 2.5 thousand when he can't work and get a thousand or a half. And then they sit in front of the store and drink cheap beer, right? And more to the point. I certainly exempt those who are sick who truly deserve it. But then you have such a situation that the same often user of these social aids, he brings his child to school, not with a new one, but with some Golf. And the kid comes out. And if that's the upper class, then he's got a regular cell phone, no matter what the father gets welfare, if the smaller one doesn't have it, then he runs to the bakery by the barrel. There are therefore very, very specific problems in this regard. And I think that social sphere deserves one serious review down on the ground. Sometimes I also have to say that no one in the village could get social assistance if no opinion was asked for the leadership of that village. It doesn't exist anymore. People can subdue the social care center's files, see if there's any fakes in there, both like this and like that. Nobody asks anyone, they get. So, I think we need to reconsider that a little bit. Let me go back for a moment for these long-term measures. And we know it's a big problem, a large number of officials as they say. But it was created by me for 15 to 18 years. And it can't be cut in a month, two days, because that would mean a very big problem and it's quite impossible. But with one particular reform and reorganization of the entire administration, that is, these local units for a long time are likely to be possible. I'd like to touch it right now for two moments. We know that it is very difficult to change that law and to abolish the municipalities. When we look at it, nobody is naive, so for political reasons, it doesn't, because we have election presidents, parliamentary elections, local elections. We have for the councils of national minorities, down in villages they have for the councils of local committees, urban districts and can finally be extraordinary elections. Therefore, if those who were all in the same period were at least about a month from now, probably after these elections, one turn could be made there. But I have to say this. That's why there was a reason because according to the Law on Spatial Planning, the deadline was 30. 12. In 2000, to bring up spatial plans. I'm stressing the first deadline of 2000. However, more than 50% of local units, i.e. municipalities, probably a good part of the cities, were unable and able to respect that deadline. Later, it was in 2000, so at the time of the coalition government and there it reads in Article 52(2) of the Law, who does not do so, the municipal council is disbanded. That could have been a reason not to reorganize at all. That's exactly what it says in that law. No municipal council has been disbanded. At least I don't have the information. Later that deadline was extended by 31. 12. In 2005, it was already the second government. That government didn't do anything about it either. No council has been disbanded. Later this extended once again to 31. 12. In 2007. I don't know if everyone did it. That's what I'm saying. It's such a problem, no matter what government, what government. No one is naive to politics to get into those things that will cause some kind of political damage. That goes for each other, so to speak. Or another moment, we had a deadline down on the ground to bring in programs by 17.4.2002, to make real estate programs available to state-owned people. More than half of those municipalities didn't bring it either. So that's one of those reasons, too. Here comes the time. And I'm going to point out one more moment when there are other moments that I wanted to talk about. This second aspect of the expenditure, the expenditure side of the budget here, I must make a certain point. It's now about our areas, about Baranja because it happened to us, namely we're not satisfied with the treatment except for these last few years when that investment went a little bit, and I hope it continues. I'm sorry that time's up, I wanted to make a few more points, but we'll do it another time, I'll be disciplined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38021	Thank you. Dear Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38022	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us a law that has yet caused fear among citizens and, of course, called a hack, the citizens have called it a harrassor, of course we have accepted because we have such opinions. And Mr. Shoja said that he too was a skeptic when the law was passed and that as you said, it was said that these were fire measures and that the Minister of Finance, or that the government said that long-term measures would be done. Of course, however, these long-term measures had to be taken earlier, those preventive measures had to be taken before, or in time, firemen had to be prepared to actually be ready and to burn down smaller houses. In fact, when the government finally admitted that the state in the recession had also taken anti-recession measures, one of which was to maintain the life standard of the most endangered groups of Croatian citizens. But we wonder who these most vulnerable groups are. And then the unions just supported those measures but precisely because they are aimed at defending citizens' standards. And I will remember today as well as my colleagues at pre-election time actually before the parliamentary elections, so I will repeat when our intentions were more just and thus, in fact, that our intentions were not to increase tax burdens but to make fair distributions. In fact, much of the tax cakes under the laws that ruled and ruled remain in the pockets of the tycoon. It is not a waste to recall even the reality of the present, which is a scene which on the one hand, and we can't bear it all to the individual's mind, and on the other hand, a group of over-rich powerful men, windy and dressy. They drive extra-series cars and yachts and, of course, no customs duties, no excise duties, adequate excise duties and no VAT. People, or our citizens, are simply in their inability to change anything in society to a little bit. And of all that, I repeat today for the second time, all I have left is for them to show their insurrection by abstinence in the elections. It is also not worth mentioning that economists have been demanding for years to stop spending at all levels, but I'm afraid the proposed government can't do any of that. Politicians are guilty because Croatia did not create the social justice state that we wanted, as the people wanted, or the domestic economy was destroyed and our Croatia was transformed into a country of service activities and trade. And of course, now salvation is sought, again this country will save the people with its victims, their denials, or the introduction of this crisis tax. Crisis tax or harrassor, however, it is nicer to say crisis tax. We're looking for solidarity. And so it wouldn't be solid and just to advance the taxation of those rich and wealthy who have this society and allow that position to be sacrificed most in the crisis. That's what we wanted in our way of taxing our colleagues and colleagues. It is not on the aside to mention Croatian pensioners who were all the time social shockers and social peace guarantees, and it is known that the share of pensions is only 39% of the average net salary. We heard about absurd calculations today, and that's why I won't repeat it. So I can say that we're talking about new crises, and this is what I've heard today, I'm going to repeat it, as a medieval taking, and that's why many people call it a harachus. The new taxes of colleagues and colleagues in this area will surely destroy the tax vase. And another thing about being very strict on these few articles of this law, and that's that he's unspoken. It says that more detailed recommendations will be made by the finance minister 30 days after this law is passed. Article 8 says the Minister will find a way or write it, but the penalties are specified on the other hand. And I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, new taxes in this area will surely destroy or destroy the tax base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38023	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38024	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. And fellow Shimac, it was not the name of the people that he called, and not the name of the people with the hara, but that which we gave to the people, and then it was repeated over and over again. Therefore, the people speak Croatian better than we Croatian MPs in the Parliament, because the harac is at least a word that doesn't belong in Croatian and is not even according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to speak in another language, down in Croatian. I would, given that there was a lot of talk here about this law, and I would return all the time to the budget and everything that is going on, and it's in the package with this law, or with the budget, and I would focus my debate on having this prepared material, because I don't really feel comfortable in this matter, but I would refer to Mr. Zoran Milanović's words, so I would actually end up with this law. And he says: After the government of Jadranka Kosor sent to the Croatian Parliament the third and most painful rebalancing of the state budget, anxiety in the ranks of political opponents grew higher, especially when they realized that the rebalancing rate did not reduce the allowance for 400 thousand children and the birth benefits for which more than 4 billion kunas were allocated. While in the past times this has been drastically cut by the arrival of those who today are so eager to advocate the leaders of the main opposition SDP party and their political and media trabants, and since the rebalance remained intact and the social benefits that were increased last year, critics in the government remain less and less manovaric space to declare the latest rebalancing to be anti-populational and socially insensitive. So that's why their calls to mass protests and early elections lose every real sense. On the contrary, by insisting on them, they are increasingly being exposed as a remethylative factor which is not aimed at stabilising state finances and starting to work on the 2010 budget but is the only one and excluding the goal of getting to the authorities at all costs. That it is thus confirmed by the inconclusive proposals coming from the SDP, as well as others from the opposition to fire 70,000 management employees overnight, to increase the VAT further and to call for the inexorable IMF to help. Unfortunately, on a similar... Other critics of the government are also advertised, but the most dramatic example of unspeakable hypocrisy and carelessness for workers' interests these days has been offered by SSH representative Ana Knezevic, who, after initial support of the Government's measures, has turned to express... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38025	Your Honor, you cannot read from the papers your speech. You can convince, but you can't read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38026	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for this warning, but these are Mr. Zoran Milanovic's words, so the man who described this situation in a very nice way today and yesterday in the Croatian Parliament. So he just hit the point of things, and that's about yesterday's subject and today, and here's to your speech of course I'm giving up reading as such, but of course I'm going to convince him. So he also says that it is possible that those who are fighting for the rights of those who are weakest, least protected, so and those who are the priorities of this country, as it is possible now to unite in the demolition activities of exactly the system that ensures that such stability is all these and in this time. Therefore, man also leads to a direct relationship between some people in the union and some people who are extremely irresponsible with all respect for freedom in the media who have joined such an act and who think that this general problem can be solved in which one part of Croatia is, by going out to the streets. So, the story of empty stomachs, of going out into the streets, is actually one big cover behind which is one notorous therefore known desire for power that is truly, in this hour, immeasurable, to every extent, and indeed not in place. One responsible opposition should seek to direct all of this work that the Government is doing and that we all do here to actually emerge from this problem that we are in, which is no autochthonous or express, recognizable Croatian problem, but is a general and general problem, and even if yesterday's thesis was discussed by Mr Jurcic when he spoke of the 10% impact on the external, imported crisis in Croatia. That's exactly how much it took to destabilize the entire system, so 10%, whatever that means, 10%, in this case I can watch 10% of the state budget. If it hadn't been for that 10% we wouldn't have problems today. Therefore, we are talking about a general problem that has affected the whole world, the whole of Europe. Croatia is just one of the countries dealing with this problem and it is really time for the opposition I respect, their leaders, respected dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, to really turn around and, I would say, forget the dead work, take a serious job, and the impasse job is every one of those who are trying to find a solution in early elections, stop government work, in inconclusive and deepening the crisis. Croatia is a stable country, both economically and socially and certainly. Let's compare it to anyone else, you'll see that no matter how much we exaggerate, how much we represent, we try to keep it that way. Indeed, God forbid what we have heard here today and yesterday, because in this event I think Croatia would suffer, and that is not the interest of the opposition or the position or anyone in this country. And so much of my support, my sincere support for this government proposal, specifically which we are now talking about and the government's support in doing all of that, even if it was unpopular, even if it didn't like it, even if I don't know who had any grudges, etc., and with the aim of stabilising and progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38027	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38028	Thank you very much. Comrade Bagarić, you mentioned one thing in your presentation that does not stand. First of all, what does an extraordinary election mean? Extraordinary elections mean the most normal democratic procedure when in the state the government does a bad job, that citizens, opposition, society is seeking early elections, seeking a way out of the situation. There shouldn't be anything controversial about it. What you're saying is that someone is eager for the authorities, that's the basic reason, according to that argument, it could be said that HDZ is eager to remain in power, which is the political party's goal of implementing its policy in a way that comes into power. Your policy is bad at this point because the state is going badly and normally to replace a policy that could be more perspective and better and in this sense the SDP wants to come to power. Secondly, it is not good to read quotes that someone here uninformed thinks it is Zoran Milanovic, president of the SDP. It's a journalist who works in a newspaper that has become a HDZ bulletin today, it's about a newspaper that is so influential that there are 1,000 sold copies a day and that there are no National Journals probably couldn't possibly exist. The government brought together the People's Newspaper and Vesnik to sort of survive. And that means the journalist and the newspaper that is funded from public money is not written in a way that is sold, that readers are looking for it, that it has a real cover on the market, but that it says as it suits the government, and all of this is paid by Croatian taxpayers and Croatian citizens again, and that is why such a newspaper should not be taken with any respect at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38029	Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I'm going to say what I honestly think and what I feel, nothing else, so whatever it looks like, and I don't need to court anyone alive or be nice to them. It's precisely because I have the kind of media space that I have, precisely because I have the kind of media space that I have that's much more important, it becomes more important if I say something ugly here, or if I insult you and I show up with this news on page one, but I don't know what kind of strategy I'm putting out here, or if I don't know what I'm serious about. So much should be protected by this Vesnik as a normal newspaper which, dear God, speaks of concrete things and forgive, can, therefore, who also has people, be responsible for people who have the right to comment as well as those in other newspapers. So he commented on what he was commenting on. I agree with this comment, and for that reason I quoted it. The other thing, my people, would be power, and you have no will to listen to what someone tells you who has the right to two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38031	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38032	On the other hand, you're saying what's unusual is being called to an extraordinary election? Well, it's unusual that you call in an unusual way. You invite people to the streets to make extraordinary choices, which is the revolution of God. Therefore, no one experiences this revolution nor must it be allowed or supported because it is indeed Marxism of God. On the other hand, here as long as this government has a majority, as long as it has a majority, and what I'm talking about, this government has support and has a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38033	Thank you. You're out of time. We have another replica, it's the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bagarić, I answered the line when you said you were not feeling casual in this situation before you started reading this quote. First I heard something from Zoran Milanovic, so I said I don't know who it was, if it was our president who wrote it, but then, that's why I asked what newspaper it was from. So listen, I don't think it's appropriate to read a speech from the Vesniks in this situation if you don't have an opinion, to read someone else's opinion. Just as it is unlikely that it is not appropriate for me to tell you now that I read recently in the morning list that in the case of that refugee, Čurkovic, you were there and said you were secretly shaking hands with him because our representative Bagarić said. So, that's all the things the papers write, but in this situation I think it's more important to say that this is all you've said, that's the thing that's your opinion, and also that this opposition has the right and opportunity to express the opinion of those people who represent, 800 thousand voters, people who have found themselves in a difficult situation because you can't say that regardless of whether it's 2%, 4%, but every such crisis tax, I'm not going to talk about a hack, it's tax, it's a crisis tax, that it creates one difficulty in the families that it works and in the situation where they are. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38035	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You got it all wrong. I didn't say that in this situation I feel casual, but I said that on this subject, I'm a doctor, so I'm not really qualified to talk like someone who's here, and I don't know either, I can harden something as I listen all the time, people who also don't know that education, and they act like the biggest experts possible. When I said that I had prepared a text for myself, my text, not a text from the Evening List, an apology from the Vesnik or any other. That's what I'm talking about. And what you said, I don't know what you're talking about. Ivan Bagarić does not shake hands with anyone in secret. I always shake hands with all the people I meet and who approach me. Therefore, there is no man in this world with whom I hide to shake his hand, and I do not know what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38037	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate, distinguished representative Ante Kotromanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38038	Nothing, it probably doesn't affect it. I cheated on my colleague, told him he was behind me, and that's why he came out for a second, if you'll let him after me. ... I'm begging you because I made a mistake, if you don't mind. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38039	Well, then, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38040	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government's representatives. One family or responsible person or we with our families in our family at least if we are responsible, and the vast majority of people are responsible, spend in their family the amount of money they earn. If it's 1,000, it'll spend 1,000, if it's 2-2, but 2 100 can't spend it because it's gone. You can ic once with a neighbor will lend you probably for something. We can go to another neighbor's, we can go to the third neighbor's, after the fifth, we have nowhere else to go. Either we spend what we have or we pay back what we have to our neighbors because the neighbors, the people who borrowed us, are going to come after us to pay them back. Why am I saying that? The same song, same comparison, applies to both the budget and the state budget. In the state budget, you can spend as much as you have in the country. One we have, one we can spend. We can spend some time on 1.1, but the one we borrowed sooner or later, we're gonna have to go back. I think we'll all agree that this is a basic financial fiscal logic that can guide us in spending money. In this situation when we have spent more than we have and when we have problems borrowing more and when the projection is very bad in the next period, because we are making less and less, the economic downturn is getting smaller, we have gone to seek solutions and we are sorry of the position, or the authorities who are responsible and took responsibility for the choices we are calling on today, and I absolutely have no problems regarding legality and legitimacy, the solutions were expected in this regard. However, after this situation, which is reported and in the introduction of the law justifies only the global crisis that has spread to us, but the point is that we have spent a long time more than we have and now with the external crisis and everything that has happened we have nowhere to go to borrow money, because the neighbor is bad, we have no money, he will eventually give us, but he will seek great interest. To what extent we reached into citizens' pockets. We've given them a lot of coercion. I'm not gonna use that word we're threatening here today. Whether it's an imposition, whether it's a given, whether I don't know what time it is, but we brought it, today we have a tax proposal and we're taking the citizens out of our pockets. We take it as a good example that a million and 400 thousand people will not be affected. Okay. But they're not the problem. The problem is that millions and 300 will be affected, and out of these millions and 400 will be hit by pensioners, I guess we've heard that several times today, pensioners who mean no more harmonisation, no more Swiss formula, and by the end of the second year no pension coordination. Therefore, they will be struck. Now, in this situation, I guess it was logical to reach for money where there is money in this situation, and these are the people who make big profits on dividends, on capital gains, on capital property, where one good people, and these are also the competent institutions who have said and audits that have been made, a good part of the people who pulled their hand in a self-service called privatisation and served themselves during that period. So, I guess it was fair and logical to take one part of the income, and in fact, the most honest and correct and what it does and the family, and I'm going back to the beginning. I'm spending as much as I have. If I don't have money, I'll deny myself anything, whether it's a luxury, a half-luxury, whether it'll be a need that can wait, and at the end of the day, a man will deny himself from his mouth, because we have examples like that. Unfortunately. Therefore, this was expected by the responsible authority in this situation, which has not yet been projected for next year. We don't know what growth is going to look like next year, so how much gross social product is going to grow, whether there's going to be growth, whether there's going to be zero, whether there's going to be a minus. In this situation, this budget was expected and logically was to go to the expense side. There are items, there are parts that can wait, that are not directly connected to the social, or to the rights, or to all those groups that legitimately and we want to protect them from feeling the problem. All right. But there are other items, there are more elements in each position in the budget by the ministries, according to certain portfolios where it can be saved. The SDP has offered one proposal, I'm not going to explain it, it's likely someone else's proposal, one that's talking about how it could have hit certain things that I can wait for after 12 months next year, half next year, and we still don't have to reach into the citizens' pocket with taxes. That tax is going to hit people 50 kuna, 30, 100, 150, 250 etc., they're going to hit them, I'm always talking about the ones with the lowest incomes, I'm not talking about the ones in which category we belong. And we have nothing to object to here, and I think we all agree that we have to bear the greatest burden in this crisis, the people who have a little better income. But it was also logical for those who drive luxury yachts, cars, yachts and other luxuryes to pay for that luxury. And if I were to finish now, in the end, I'd warn you of one more thing. At the application, the technical application of this regulation this morning was called by my colleagues from one factory, and they said that we will technically apply this regulation, note ben to bring, that this regulation is likely to be passed, the law will be passed on to the VAT law, etc. How will people technically apply that? There are already several concerns about ways, basics, payments, what when a man makes a few employers, etc. He's got a few questions. How are people going to do that? And the note ben, the entry into force of that regulation, people from that day forward have to charge taxes. Today it's computerized, IT imported, there are programmers, there are programs, eventually it's going to be costs. How are you going to do that? I expect a lot of trouble. How they explained it to me, and after I looked at it, I saw it was logical. Summer is, they're vacations, programmers are on vacations, people who deal with it and there'll be problems. There will be technical problems with the implementation of this. Not to say, and I end up here, that this tax that will further impoverish citizens, who are not in any kind of solidarity, is one group that will bear the burden, which will be taken in 3 months' time, resulting in problems like this and even worse problems. Why? Because we haven't gone into consumption, because we still have a family called the State spending more than they can earn and earn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38041	Thank you. And now it's up to the distinguished representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38042	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your understanding from earlier. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to say a few words about this bill, even though the public has already spoken its own and I think it's turned its thumb down. We are here saying that somewhere around a million and a half people have a salary of less than 3,000 kuna and that these people will not be covered by this Tax Act, by the Bill of Taxes on Salaries and Pensions. I think we must be ashamed, that all of us must be ashamed that after 18 years of statehood, we have a free Republic of Croatia that a million and a half people live on the edge of existence and survive with 3,000 kunas. I think we need to be aware of that and that when we use all the hard words in this assembly, we need to be aware that a million and a half thousand people live on the edge of existence and that maybe if they still have a few children in their family to live on the edge of hunger. And here we compete and who is the greater Croat, who is the better Croat, eat, who is the greater Catholic, or what else. These few days I've been in my Dalmatia, and people either right or left are completely disoriented. They are confused and ask what is happening with us in the Republic of Croatia? Our government instead of showing a dose of maturity and calmness changes decisions at the speed of the wind, spreading panic and confusion among all people and citizens. One day they suggest one day, the other day they propose another, and then on a proposal from one union official, they suggest a criminal tax as people have already marked it. The sudden acceptance of a crisis tax without any simulations and projections shows unseriousness and irresponsibility in state affairs. I don't know what kind of vision that is and what are these strategic long-term programs? I feel like we're acting like geese in the fog. Pushing into solutions that are not good according to the estimates of most economic experts. He says the government has no serious idea what to do with the deficit or the recession. I don't think that's how a country is run. In my view, one serious operation is not being conducted to get the state out of the crisis. I wonder and ask myself, where is the command responsibility? Who's to blame? Who's responsible for this bad state in the country? We extradited our generals to The Hague to prove their innocence in The Hague on the basis of commanding responsibility. Who are we going to send to jail now? Who do we send to jail now to prove our innocence because we have a bad economic situation in the country? Whom to identify, locate, transfer when we're in a banana, according to our former prime minister. This tax does not distinguish the poor and the rich. The tycoons, ministers, council representatives, managers are only taken 4%, and people with 3,000 and one kuna and several children on their backs who barely survive and make ends meet are not fair to take that 2%. It's not just fair, it's not fair. And I'm thinking gentlemen MPs and I'm asking you if you're moving amongst people do you know what they think of us? People talk and think we're useless assholes, rich mercenaries who don't do anything and don't have the guts. That's what people think of us. Get down a little bit. That's what people said now. Yeah. I don't insult anyone. I insult myself and say what people think. I quote a lot of people who call and don't have their own opinion of what's worse and what gets me the most is eating in it. We don't have our position here, we can't state our position we vote as someone tells us or suggests someone else or third. A colleague Djakic and the boy said a few days ago they were defenders as well as in '91. years ready to be first. I don't really agree with that. Who made a referendum among the defenders and asked out for anything? On whose behalf were they speaking? Where have they been since '91? By the time we were 95, were our tycoons? What trench were they in, what operation were they in? And how many miles of square have they released? The war was won by both left and right and middle and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And they certainly didn't. And now the defenders are taken the same way as some Todorovics, Zderics, Gucics, Kerumi, Rajics and others. It can't do that, it's not fair, it's not correct. By the time 15 thousand people died and 36,000 people were wounded and gone, they got rich. Take them first and foremost, then take them to everyone else. Introduce tax on the rich. The defenders this time should be the last to choose. Gentlemen, this is an opportunity to open up the defense register, to separate the weeds from the grains. Let's get off the list of those who weren't on the battlefield for a moment. We have over half a million defenders. We have an increase of over 150 thousand defenders and over 20,000 pensions. Do a reconstruction of the state apparatus, reduce the number of representatives, there are too many of us, the county, the cities and the municipalities. Nationalize the alienated and the Buddha for selling out social property. Create a public procurement order where big money is taken and we hit criminals, not poor people. Gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance today you claim there's no money in the budget today. Here's an example. For four years in the vaults, you've had a credit card of about 12 million kunas you don't want to activate. It is known that these are debtors from Transport from Makarska as a guarantee of the recapitalisation of the car transport company in Sinj. It would be normal to activate the same debtors, because the capitalization was not made. The funds lie, the man didn't do anything. He pulls us all down to Sinj and takes the money. At the same time, the minister had a correspondence with the mayors and said they were officials in Zadar. Let him activate them. I think we can find a lot of funding in all ministries if we are to be rational and normal if we want good to this Croatian state. I'm not gonna talk about it much. And of course I won't vote for this law that isn't correct and that simply rich caste of Croats who have a lot of money and don't even touch it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38043	Thank you. And now it is the honourable representative Marin Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38044	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try to say a brief word about the Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts. And I'm going to say that this law is one sequence of state budget rebalance proposals, a rebalancing that is not anti-recessional, but a clean patching of a budget gap that does not reduce state spending and rebalancing, but slows down economic growth. This is a blow to pensioners for one reason why the Government is proposing to introduce a tax of 2 and 4%, but it also suspends pension harmonisation until 31. 12. 2010 But the same impact is on workers with a tax of 2 and 4%, respectively. 15 days ago, he hit on students, tied to free transportation and the removal of free textbooks. This is certainly a blow to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia through an increase in VAT from 22% to 23%. But the citizens of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is asking for denial have the right to know. They have the right to know who robbed Croatia during the conversion and privatisation process, it owed Croatia 42 billion euros. Citizens need to know whose political failures they pay for. I believe that the names of companies in which the state audit has identified irregularities in the course of conversion and privatisation should be published, the illegal acquired property should be taken away. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should also be changed in this direction, which I believe we will have the support of all citizens and the entire opposition. The Constitution needs to change the part so as not to obsess over the crimes committed during the conversion and privatisation. Personally, I cannot support a bill like this, a law that is primarily unfair because it introduces taxes to the poorest. If a tax is to be introduced at this point, then it is certainly a tax on rich people who have been illegally enriched through conversion and privatisation, it means wealth beyond the law which in this country has found and audited in more than 95% of the cases. That's it. I'm certainly against this bill of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38045	Thank you. And it's up to the Honorable Representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38046	Mr. Vice President. This second rebalancing within a month is finally a sort of moment of truth because after long months of polemic crossing arguments we found that the crisis exists. That the crisis is much more difficult than we want to admit it shows relevant numerical indicators but we still don't really have the courage to admit the causes and reasons of the crisis. So on page 1 of the reasoning, Croatia also feels the consequences of this crisis, it is thought of the global economic crisis which suggests that it is pouring simply into Croatia and that it has caused this situation that we are now experiencing. A whole series of indicators indicate that this is not the case and that probably 10, perhaps something more, perhaps slightly less than a percent of the global or global crisis has conditioned our crisis and that our crisis has started significantly earlier and that three quarters of it have been anticipated to say so to the global crisis. Secondly, what are the consequences of the crisis regardless of the causes and whatever we can or cannot establish. The revenues of the state budget are significantly lower, according to page 1. Then that means we have to do something with that state budget. We can either do it to cut the spending part or to boost the income part. The proposal for this rebalancing is aimed at strengthening the revenue share through additional taxes on salaries and pensions. That solution is unacceptable to us for a whole series of reasons this morning, I will not tell them, but what is most terrible and economically unacceptable. It will bring us even more into the recession and will actually erode the reasons or rather the causes of the crisis. What's that gonna lead to? The first will lead to a reduction in the purchasing power of citizens, which will lead to a decrease in consumption that will lead to a decrease in the revenues of the state budget, reducing the mass of personal income, reducing personal income and further reducing the purchasing power of the population, and further reducing consumption, and further reducing the revenue side of the budget. And that's how we actually cause or accelerate the spiral of recession instead of preventing it. In addition, this proposal says that it is a fair, equal and evenly distributed crisis and none of it is true. I don't know what equality or equality would mean in this case, maybe equality but what equality would mean is not known to me at all. She is not just because here, if we talk about financial aspects, we can only talk about social justice. If we were to talk about social justice then we would talk about income on one side or simply available funds per household member and not just once, so according to the income entity, because it is a very different situation if one income entity lives alone or if it lives with four remaining household members who have no income whatsoever. And that is what we warned him about, and neither is he even. And in addition, we believe that such an instrument was morally and politically allowed to reach after all other possibilities in the budget were exhausted. So hitting on the pockets of people of personal income and pensions, taking from education and health care is political, morally permissible only after all other resources are exhausted. You're all the other funds on the spending side as we've been listening to this morning you haven't exhausted. And that's how you actually subdued, denied what you proclaimed as your own goals. What is the intention of this rebalancing? The compensation of this rebalancing is, in all likelihood, the acquisition of funds for the state budget. The acquisition of this rebalancing is not a reduction in the expenditure side we have identified in a whole series of examples there are reserves and what we will probably talk about on Friday when we talk about amendments. You're talking about saving without actually touching the practical expenditure side after you've exhausted education and one piece of health care, but there's no word about what this rebalancing is about, and especially how to avoid recession, how to get out of recession, how to get funds to overcome the recession crisis and to start a new cycle of development. And if the promoters had read not only the books that have been published in the world for the last nine or ten months but only if they had read the foreign press then they would have seen it resorting to very different instruments in the developed world exactly the opposite of what Croatia is doing. The instruments are an increase in the purchasing power of the population and a reduction in various charges, including VAT. I can only list you with the United States, so I can only get you to the UK, so I can only get you to France, so I can only get you to Germany, and then I can tell you Italy and Spain afterwards. My people, where we live, what we care about. And completely the promoters forgot that the purpose of the state is to care for the well-being of the population and to actually protect them from various disadvantages and different disadvantages. The country's last historical or historical fourth development phase, the developed democratic state, consists in its intervention against various abuses and against the various malversions that occurred in the last decade, decade and a half in the world. We don't have any of it on the horizon, we don't have any of it in mind, we don't have any of it in the hints. Both colleagues and colleagues, the situation is a much more dramatic one that we forgot that in a democratic state, the stability of institutions is built on citizens' trust. The moment you grab your citizens in your pockets and charge for those mistakes they didn't cause, but caused by their incompetent authority, at the time you violated not only the citizens' trust, but the trust of all those democratic institutions that should guarantee stability. The result of this is the impotence of citizens, the result is a feeling of fear, and the result is certainly apathy. And in this House, we've already talked about the crisis on the ancient Greek Crisis as well as the great difficulty, but also the decision. And this chance, therefore, awareness of the crisis and the instruments you have reached, shows that you are actually missing this opportunity to face real problems seriously, to restructure both the budget and one part of the state and the state administration and the whole series of difficulties that we have, to face and to face corruption that eats a terrible amount of money in this country, and therefore it is not by any chance that we draw conclusions that we have drawn from such premises to be the most honest and best to change and replace this power, to go to early elections, and on the other hand to also listen to the profession. And that instead of argumenting the force of statistical data, because you didn't just get a mandate and the opposition got some mandates, we finally reverse the situation and start using the power of argument and profession. And no nearly aspect of the profession has supported these measures that you have proposed and, of course, neither will we. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38047	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Although all day long we are actually listening to recommendations on the purpose and purpose of the proposed law, I will again, in fact, repeat the provision and Article 1 of the proposal of this law, which, in fact, is on the principles of justice, is the purpose and purpose of equality and proportionality on the basis of which everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs, in accordance with their opportunities under the conditions of the economic crisis in Croatia. Therefore, the proposed law until 31 December 2010 introduces a special tax on pensions, salaries and other incomes and stops in fact by harmonising pensions in order to increase revenues and, of course, reduce expenditure in the state budget. With this proposal, as we all know, 2% would be paid for the total amount of pension, salaries and other amounts when that amount moves up to 3000 kuna and another, respectively, when it is less than 6000 kuna, and at 4% would be paid at amounts of more than 6000 kuna. By applying this law, we appreciate that in 2010 there will be additional revenues of around 3 billion and 120 million kuna, with spending cuts and around 630 million kuna. As for the duration of this law until 31 December 2010, I am convinced, as I have already said, that the government will monitor the state of the economy and, in accordance with the positive developments, propose a shorter period of application of this law. These are all reasons why I will support the adoption of such a law by emergency procedure, and in order to make economic and fiscal adjustments in relation to the rebalancing of the budget and of course that our citizens throughout Croatia will understand what is purpose and purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38049	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't think anyone who truly knows what is fair and just should or should not vote for this law. No one who really knows how the Croatian people live should vote for this law. The citizens of Croatia are already in a difficult situation right now, and with this law it will be even harder for them and there is no dilemma that this is so, and at the same time the government does not give them absolutely no guarantee that it is going in the right direction, that it knows what it is doing and that it knows when and how it will come out of the crisis. And that's actually the key question, that's what people are interested in, that's what we've been asking you and we've been asking you as an opposition all this time as a question, do you know how we're going to get out of the crisis? All your so-called. Anti-recession measures have so far proved ineffective, and that is how this law shows and proves. I believe you had another source to reach out to. So for you, the way out of the crisis is what we're discussing today, new imposes and new taxes on citizens. Now I remember what the current prime minister said, she said "the efforts we make are deep and difficult, painful cuts, but they will be the basis for the future". That sounded rather bitter, but today we know what the prime minister actually meant, now we know what these cuts are, who they're referring to and who they're actually going to be painful for. What I said yesterday and in the debate on budget rebalancing can be repeated again, which is that this budget rebalance is in no way a sound foundation for 2010 for the simple reason that this is not a dynamic budget rebalance that is in the development function as the only option that can get us out of the crisis. In front of the nation to come out with new taxes, ask the family, from the workers, from the pensioners to save the state, to save, while at the same time the state says it's saving so it doesn't, because let me remind you, with the first rebalance of 780 million kuna, the second rebalancing or 200. These are simply too little savings at the end that we can say that this government's savings, that and that government's savings of all together, will cost us quite dearly. I've already said once that I think it's not fair to expect from a people who are now barely able to make ends meet that solidarity with the state is not fair for a lot of reasons. It is not fair because solidarity is actually selective and the question arises why is it not expected of those who have acquired an enormous wealth on the back of the people to solidarity? Why aren't banks expected to do the same? What about their incomes? What about the revenues from the sports transfers? Why isn't it expected to be the same from the owners of large-scale capital? Why doesn't the end of the world expect it from itself? From an extremely single-minded country? No property taxes, no dividend taxes, expensive planes, yachts, limos, we've heard a couple of times already, the rich will still register to companies, and will continue to avoid paying taxes. What about some HZ employees who have salaries twice the doctor's salary with a doctor's study and don't do anything? What about the gray economy, and I don't mean that classic black work. I think some of the activities that have developed, of which individuals have put enormous profits in their private pockets? What about hundreds of agencies that you have founded and hired in them thousands of people who travel, who sit, learn foreign languages and swallow budget money? That's where the billions we're missing today go. I think that's where you made your move, and you had time. So that's where the savings were made, that's where the cuts were made, the reforms. Well, I believe you would then have the moral right to ask citizens to help and to solidarity. I think you'd have the right to ask citizens for help, which is very important. The people would understand it then, the people would accept it then. Again, I think of something else, yet it remains intact by the conversion and crime of acquired assets, while at the same time the people are expected to be solidarity. New commitments are followed by a reduction in wages, followed by a reduction in pensions. Probably both layoffs of workers and growth in unemployment and indifference and late pay and all will be paid again by those who live out of their work both workers and employees and pensioners and will again remain intact all those who have unfairly acquired an enormous wealth. What will these taxes bring, and how do you call them budget savings? It would be good if they were directed to the economy, to science, to development, to the real sector. Is that how it's gonna be? You can't see it from this budget. On the contrary, this budget shows that it will not be so. That money, and that is unfortunately true, you need it to be able to pay off those same salaries and pensions you intend to reduce. Without it, you're no longer able to do it. In other words, we spend more than we earn all the time, and when it disappears, we will take it from the people because he's learned from the crisis anyway. So this is the third budget, the third budget that aims to patch up budget holes, put out the fire in some way and the only way that, and this is really the only way to get the money fast, but measures are neither acceptable nor will save the country from the crisis. They simply allow the state to serve its obligations in the short term, nor are they anti-recessional because, in my deep conviction, they only deepen and increase problems. It simply comes down to maintaining the liquidity of the state budget, and these gentlemen certainly are not the way out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38051	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38052	Thank you very much. One cynic said a long time ago it's not a problem that I have to pay a tax to the state, but I'm sorry that that tax isn't lower. But this is not the time for cynicism because Croatia is in serious economic difficulties and speaking as an economist and as a human being, I am sorry to introduce this tax. I am also sorry that there are a million and 500 thousand people in Croatia receiving monthly below 3,000 kuna, but the reasons that have led to this are very complex. From conversion and privatisation, from the impact of the global financial crisis, from the role of trade unions, from the role of employers, and from the structural problems of Croatia. I will support this law for the reason that by its prenuptiality there would be even greater economic difficulties. And I am sorry that I did not see in this law a third tax rate for those over 10 000 kuna and at a rate of 10%, and I hope that the economic situation in Croatia will change for the better, and that this law can be abolished before 31 December 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38053	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38054	Comrade Maric, I agree in any case with your premeditation, but it seems to me that the conclusion is somehow wrong with her. If you refused to support this bill, then you would force the state apparatus to look for other solutions that would be significantly closer to some new development cycle than this one, because this is a clean mechanic, and you are an economist who you know will speed up the spiral of economic problems, hence economic decline, because, as I said, by reducing the purchasing power of the population will reduce consumption, by reducing consumption, the revenue side of the state budget will decrease the mass for personal incomes, etc., and no funds for the new development cycle. So it seems to me that fellow Maric will follow something different from your premise.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38055	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38056	My colleague Flego, the premise can really draw different concepts, but my conclusion is rational and I said that by not passing this law, even bigger economic problems, even greater economic difficulties would arise. And that's why I support it, and it's a short-term measure, and every economic measure has positive and negative sides, and that's why I support it, because it creates a basis for the adoption of medium- and long-term measures that need to be taken very quickly, if we're going to get out of the economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38057	Thank you. And now it's the other Goran, and that's Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38058	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance. My predecessors in their discussions have shown a number of aspects of the review of the proposed Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Receipts in the context of savings that this law should adopt because of the economic and financial crisis in Croatia. So here's the final crisis. It's already a big one for our economy. So here's what they finally admitted and ruling, and now we've got to get out of it. And right away, it started to go to that standard community in distress, and it went to solidarity to get out of the crisis. It took place through the introduction of an imposition for all those who have any salary or any income if it exceeds 3 thousand kuna. Well, since we heard announcements a few weeks ago, sometimes recognitions that the crisis is there and we heard various different recipes that ranged from 8% over 6%, 5%, 3% on salaries, pensions, etc., to here's the final one at two degrees 2%, 4% and an increase in VAT which we're going to talk about a little later. In the first place, I wanted to hear what people think and the people in that part of Croatia that I live in on these proposals. So I was interested in the opinions of my fellow citizens from the least developed, I would say the most endangered part of Croatia, so from Eastern Slavonia, from Slavonia County, especially my Vukovar-Srijem County. I talked to a lot of people. I even had a press conference the other day. After these conversations, and like I believe most of the representatives present here, after these conversations with the neighbors, with acquaintances, but also with those citizens who stop you on the street or with those citizens who text you, email or phone statements, some of their visions of all this have come up with very interesting thinking, so I'm going to present some of them here. So, the general known fact is, first of all, a few sentences about my county, that it is a county that is the most underdeveloped, or with Brod-Posavina County is constantly at the beginning of development in the Republic of Croatia. It is also a well-known fact that in my county the average pays somewhere 15% lower than the Croatian average. And here's somewhere at the end of last year, a single meeting of the government came out of one piece of information that citizens in eastern Croatia are at 31% of the European average, and therefore fall within the category of the poorest citizens in the Republic of Croatia. It's quite worrying in itself, but when you look at a story about prices, about the cost of living in that part of it I say where I live, it's quite another story. It is already known, for example, that Vukovar is one of the most expensive cities in Croatia, Pula is said to be the most expensive, Vukovar is the second most expensive in Croatia. So for the monthly expenses of the citizens of Vukovar they must give about 7 hundred kuna more than the citizens of the city of Zagreb or some 900 kuna more than the citizens of Varazdin who say is the most favourable city at the cost of living in Croatia. Or the fact that the citizens of Vukovar pay the price of heating that is second in Croatia and that of the same firm "Technostan" that owes them hundreds of millions of kunas namely unpaid reserves. All this has to do with it, and these are all the facts that citizens associate when they look at the government's proposal that they now need to get some 2, or 4% off their salaries, depending on how many they receive. So when we look at all these facts, it is no wonder that among the citizens, especially those who live on their work, so what we would say to ordinary workers and pensioners, there is a certain fear, there is a certain mistrust, primarily in knowledge, ability, and especially in the good interest of those who are introducing new obligations justifying the need for joint participation in the exit from the crisis. Because citizens simply don't believe this is the best way to go into a serious fight against the crisis. Citizens do not believe that these tax burdens, which will firstly impoverish them, will not help the development of Croatia, because yesterday, in several discussions, we saw how the spiral of pay cuts affect the development of companies, the development of companies, the production and therefore the mass from which certain taxes should be charged further. So why don't the citizens still believe everything they're told? Well, because these are the same ones that have long ago, despite all possible indicators, have publicly and repeatedly denied that the crisis is threatening in Croatia. Now they are tragically warning me to quote "if wages and pensions are not reduced, there could be no money in September for their payment". So they lied to the citizens. They lied to them that there was no crisis. Because they also spoke of Croatia recently as a land of knowledge in which schooling, in which textbooks, transportation to school and similar training will simply be free of charge. And the first thing they did was hit on students or rather on their parents or rather on their families. So they cheated on the citizens of Croatia. But also the Vinkovci, because that's what they told me in the Vinkovci. Because those same before the parliamentary elections said there would be no tax hikes. A colleague, Maras, showed it on a poster. And now that's exactly what they're proposing as one of the prime measures. So they lied to the citizens of Croatia. Because they promised you a VAT reduction. And just one of the main measures is to suggest an increase in VAT, so they lied to the citizens of Croatia. At the same time, we all know that before this crisis, which we all call this now, at least we agree on something the crisis is in Croatia. For years, it was worth it and it was ruled by the world-renowned man who put up the pit. It is that the pit is either a guarantee or not, or I don't know how to say it in the presentation today, because you open any press, or even the one who showed my colleague Bagarić here, and you will see that the affairs literally pop out of all parts of our beautiful country and anyone who says holes and holes in Croatia. Every day. I've even heard the opinion of some citizens, that denying going into crisis a year ago, was even designed to give those who failed to bail out an opportunity to pit. That's opinions. I don't have to agree with everyone, but I'll tell them. How, then, can citizens accept their responsibility or, as is said in the proposal of this law, the need, to participate in the rescue of the state through acceptance of wage cuts and pensions when equal measures have been taken in the salaries of 3 thousand and 10 kuna and those of 20 thousand kuna. Yes, that salary of three thousand and ten kunas to be received by a worker in the wood industry in Vinkovci who choked daily in the chicken, exceeding three thousand kunas. But only because he's got three kids and I'm working in a family. Because if it wasn't for that, maybe 2,000 kuna. But he will pay his taxes neatly and help the Republic of Croatia get out. They will pay their 60 kuna and 20 limes to get Croatia out of the crisis. And at the same time we're all watching and listening, so here's to supplement the collection of turcisms that we've heard here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38059	Thank you. Your time is up. ... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] It is next to the distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So by introducing a new tax or a new charge as we will already call it, and only on the net salary of employees, pensioners mean, above all, the impact on the standard of impoverished Croatian citizens anyway. The reasons for the adoption of this law, as explained by the proposal, is the economic situation in our country in which, due to the economic and financial crisis, the revenues of the state budget are significantly less than the need to finance public commitments. And all of a while ago, the government didn't admit that there was a crisis at all. And now all of a sudden, this crisis is being talked about, and the reason for the introduction of this tax is the economic situation, i.e. the reduction of the revenues of the state budget, as I have already said. The fact is that in the last 8 months, the government has done almost nothing to overcome the current crisis. And instead of offering solutions to exit from the crisis to adopt measures that would mean an increase in production, the government decides to collect revenues in such a way as to directly tax the benefits of workers and pensioners. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not to blame for the failures and bad policy of this government in the last 5 years of leading the Republic of Croatia. A policy that meant excessive spending, over-indebted debt, the waste of the state administration, corruption that was particularly present in public procurement procedures. Why did the government not solve a number of corruption affairs involving themselves officials of the ruling elite? No, nothing was done, it's being saved on the poorest, and it's still called solidarity. The burden of the crisis should be shifted to those who have acquired vast material wealth over the past years, which has large assets, which have been enriched in an illegal manner. But the government doesn't want to do it. He doesn't want to tax dividends that are paid in millions of kunas, capital gains tax, he doesn't want to get into that tax. He doesn't want to introduce a tax on property, but he'll take it from the ones that have the least. The introduction of this tax will also bring over-indebted Croatian citizens into an extremely difficult situation. In particular, families who are teaching children will be affected because we have abolished free textbooks and free transportation by previous budget rebalancing. It's the same with the pensioners. You spoke today, we will not touch pensions of up to 3 thousand kuna, and at the same time you are suspending the harmonisation of pensions to reduce the total expenditure of the state budget. So isn't that measure also a blow to the pensioner's standard with the lowest pensions. We see that in the first quarter of 2009, there was a decrease in economic growth of almost 7% compared to the first quarter of 2008. And that fall is mostly due to a decrease in consumption. The question arises how much more consumption will fall if wages and pensions are reduced, if a VAT rate increase is proposed, which again means price increases, this is obviously not the case. This measure is the same as the budget rebalance, it clearly shows that this government has no vision and no idea how and how to overcome the existing crisis. These are not measures to get out of the crisis. It's just a short-term budget-saving that's getting thinner, or saving the ruling elite. This government has questioned the safety of Croatian citizens with its irresponsible and poor policies because there is obviously not enough funds to pay salaries and pensions in the budget. That's what the Finance Minister himself said, Mr. Schucker himself, who recently said that if you don't agree first to that pay cut and now to these new taxes that come into question payouts and pensions in the 9th month of this year. What kind of anti-recession measures are based primarily on wage cuts or pensions by introducing a higher consumption tax, I mean here on VAT. Which means introducing this tax in view of the recession in which our country is located. The new tax in recession or the increase in existing taxes is not any anti-recession measure. On the contrary, this is the way to an even greater recession. The reason is that the introduction of new taxes and the increase of existing ones will fall in private consumption, very quickly VAT revenues will also fall as a consumer tax, the state that will collect once or ad hoc money from these new taxes will not unfortunately invest in the economy but in consumption. So what do we get? The impoverished Croatian citizens, again less revenue in the state budget and probably a new budget rebalance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38061	I'm sorry, you pick up every time you're done. He can't. Come in, you've had ten minutes and I can't give it to you when the debate is over. Representative Sonja Simunovic is in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38062	Thank you. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This unfortunate law begins about this way: "The economic and financial crisis makes the revenues of the state budget significantly less than the need for the normal financing of all public liabilities including pension insurance.". Then, in the follow-up, guilt and responsibility is placed on the whole world and the globe and continues. Therefore, there was an obstacle to the need to achieve savings wherever possible, including the area of wages and pension insurance. Ends with one extremely inappropriate sentence: "Introducing a special tax on wages, pensions and other incomes and suspending pension coordination is based on the principles of fairness, equality and proportionality to which everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in proportion to their opportunities.". And what are these opportunities for our citizens? Yesterday I go into the store and a lady buys a salami and says to the seller, "Give me a few slices, but I only have 10 kunas, so be sure you don't get over it.". In what way does she participate in public spending settlement or why? Is she responsible that the Croatian government does not know how to manage her and our money? Of course not. You proudly declare that you have freed the most sensitive groups, that they will not be affected by this tax, so you have saved 900 thousand pensioners from this unfair harrass because their pensions are too small. They're so small and small, the tax goes around them. The average pension is 2 thousand 167 kuna, which is 40% of the average salary. This pension covers about one-third of the consumer basket, which means that a pensioner in Croatia can live 10 days a month and then teeth about a wedge. It was given to him or her or her struggle, for which they worked bloodyly throughout their lifetime for 10 days a month under the old days. I believe that they would all be overjoyed if we had a pension of 3 to 6 thousand kunas and so we could do as you say are solid and make a contribution to solving this crisis. It was also tragic in the way you invented and determined these tax rates. From Monday to Friday, there were millions of versions like bargaining in an apple-pound market. You've made quite an impression like this, I'd say it's just an impression. The government sat down at the table and decided to introduce a harrassor to the citizens. First member of the government says let's make it 8%. There's another member, so we can't make it eight percent, it's a big number, let's make it six. There's a third member, it's not good either, and that sounds too much, and the six looks a lot like the eight, it's not good. Then there's silence, it's been thinking for a while, so the first member of the government comes back, and let's say it's 3%, but we'll raise the VAT by 1%. Shut up again. And finally, a fourth member of the government who listened wisely all the time, and I have a winning statement, so let's do this, we're going to introduce two tax rates, one out of 2%, the other out of 4%, and we're going to raise VAT to 23. This sounds so complicated and complicated, the citizens will think that we've really thought and analyzed it, it'll look like we really know what we're doing, that I'm not saying that we're going to leave the impression of solidarity and justice because here we have protected the poorest layer of citizens. All faces are lit up and unanimously accept a rescue solution, a rescue solution for the government, and they've secured themselves for a few more months of their lives. About the neck of Croatian workers and workers, pensioners who are getting tighter and tighter from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38063	Thank you. We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38064	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it's a similar debate, so it's easy. We are mostly talking about individual consumption which will be reduced because wages will be reduced, pensions will be reduced, and that is precisely the biggest problem that has gone to that individual consumption, started to pay, to pensions and public spending remained completely out of sight. It's an amazing piece of information that I read the other day that there are over four hundred managerial contracts or four hundred managers in HZ. In HEP over 100, etc. There's a question of what they're doing, etc., it's not my question. But watch out, you've got union statements from the shipyard, you've got union statements from HH that everything is done and what is obtained at 20.30% higher prices. It's that public spending where you need to look for space. So we're not just gonna talk about managers even though it's an area, but we need to work where spending can be reduced and not now we've taken away from people's salaries and thus we're going to spin a circle that won't get us out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38065	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Sonja Šimunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38066	Thank you, colleague, for these words. I fully agree with you. And really inconceivable, I can't even figure out what that logic is that the first move that the government is making is actually hitting the pockets of pensioners, workers and citizens. Totally incomprehensible even immorally, these are usually moves that are left to end. Now the question is whether this is really the end, whether there really wasn't any possibilities, no measures to pull, but this is really the end and a step ahead of the break-in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38067	Thank you. I beg you again, don't use words that aren't appropriate here. Moral, theft, thieves, so people, this is Parliament. Please. In the name of... Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And a representative of the government, State Secretary, the esteemed Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In the end, I would like to thank everyone for the constructive discussion and answer a few questions that have been raised here. As far as intellectual services are concerned, they fall into another income, and if it's over 3,000 kuna, they would tax at a rate of 2, if it's over 6 then at a rate of 4%. Sportsmen also, if the second income is paid in Croatia, would be taxed. Retirements, they are not pensions and do not enter taxation. Priests would also be taxed if they received the salary of more than 3,000 kunas or if they were to receive pensions of more than 3000 kuna. As for technical application as well as in what way, I have to explain it one more time. The tax base for the calculation of the specific tax shall be calculated from the total income achieved during one month with one payer achieved on the same basis. So, salary is salary, pension is pension, and second income is second income. That means if there's a payout twice during the same month, one part of 2000, and after that 3000, then you tax 5,000 kuna. And so is the second income. Obligator of the billing, suspension and payment of the special salary tax, pensions and other receipts, payer of wages, pensions and other receipts. So it's the payer who's going to have to keep records and a special payment account. Finally, I would support Mr. Goran Maric's esteemed representative, who said in his statement that he hopes this tax will not last until the end. I also hope that it may be lifted before, and that will make it easier for the tax administration to do a lot of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38069	Thank you. And I'm concluding a debate on this point. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38070	Second, the Final Proposal of the Law on Special Taxation of Salaries, Pensions and Other Receipts, Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 414, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 166. Rules of Procedure. The amendments tabled must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. Most of the votes, 97 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 11 against, were accepted a proposal to discuss the government's amendments. First of all, I think about the amendments that will follow and later in the budget that we should vote by raising our hands in order to move faster... And secondly, we will discuss each amendment to the government individually and then decide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivan Shucker, to make clear, or explain, the amendments to the Government. Amendment 1 to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38071	Therefore, the government proposes that this amendment extend the basis for taxation i.e. that this tax crisis or special, whatever we want to call, is paid by all those who, with the basis of dividend or share in profits, have payments, whether they are legal or physical.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38072	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the first amendment to the government. On behalf of the club, therefore, clubs are discussing, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38073	The SDP club will vote in favour of this amendment, but we would like to say that this is an extortional amendment and that this is an alibi that part of the coalition will vote for the rebalancing of the state budget. What will the effects of this amendment be? This law is valid until the end of 2010. The 2009 dividend, which was paid in 2009, is paid and will not be subject to this tax rate, possibly in 2010. If the government had a serious intention to tax part of the capital gains, then it would change the Income Tax Act and, in that way, permanently introduce the dividend tax. As it does not, it only does so to eventually prove its intention to tax capital gains.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38074	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38075	Thank you, Mr. President. Just with what my colleague Zgrebec said, it is, of course, positive that this proposal has been accepted and it is certainly good to accept this proposal. But I'm asking one technical question, according to the law on which this amendment and this, as well as everything else, applies from tomorrow. Is that technically feasible? In which way it is technically feasible to apply both this and the 2 and 4% salary taxes from tomorrow, since there are no transitional and final provisions in the law, there are no instructions on how to apply them, and the deadline is less than 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38076	If he wants... yes, independent, then you'll answer if you want. Independent representative Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38077	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I only have two short questions if you can answer, and you didn't say in the explanation of the amendment. In view of this amendment, has the Government's Office for Impact Assessment made an analysis of the impact of this regulation, a very important office that should really give you and us an impact analysis? And secondly, how is it that, under capital gains, you do not mean and the profit obtained from the sale of equity shares and interest? In my opinion, it should also be subject to the government's amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38078	Thank you. If the minister wishes to further explain the first amendment, then we are on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38079	So when we talk about taxation, this is one tax on dividends according to the Income Tax Act, and this is quite another tax. As far as questions are concerned, Commissioner Pusic, so at the moment when this law is passed in the Croatian Parliament, all instructions will appear on the website of the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration. The technical application of this law is not so demanding since in front of us and Saturday and Sunday, since the payment of salaries and all payments in principle in Croatia in very few subjects is practically up to 5, 6, so what we have talked to entrepreneurs etc., we think that law enforcement will go without major technical problems. But you must also understand that we cannot publish the instructions for law enforcement before this House adopts it. The law was passed only at the time when this House was adopted and practically already today from noon to 1 hour on the Ministry of Finance's website, tax administrations will be instructed to apply all these laws adopted and other things, a permanent phone will be opened which otherwise exists in the tax administration so that citizens and entrepreneurs can receive timely information. Therefore, technically for the application of this law, the Ministry of Finance has applied everything, but I must, but please understand that some things cannot be published on the website until the Parliament adopts the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38080	Thank you. Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic has a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38081	If the finance minister hadn't said this confidently that everything was ready for law enforcement, I probably wouldn't have intervened at all despite the fact that interventions and loud interventions are absolutely necessary. The profession that must apply this law, all those who, when calculating salaries or do not know these other receipts, have to calculate, tighten, pay that tax will have a nasty problem, will be late for payment of salaries. All those who regularly pay salaries on the 1st of the month or immediately at the beginning of the month will have to be late, there will have to be withdrawals of people from vacations and so on, as well as the application of a new rate of value added tax. That's true, and I don't see why you're running away from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38082	We have a correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38083	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I don't know how you think it is to publish anything on the website if you respect article 89. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states in paragraph 1 before the laws and other regulations of the state authorities enter into force, shall be published in the National Journal of the Republic of Croatia. I also hope that the President of the Republic will sign that law before then. That's all I'm warning you about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38084	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38085	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say something about my colleague Zgrebec's question on behalf of the SDSS Club, who, along with the HSLS Representatives' Club, has complemented this law on pensions, salaries and the extension of that law to other forms of income, primarily dividends and profits. We are in the coalition aware that this is a measure which partially eases the adoption of such a law and partially relieves the submission of this burden of crisis, but we have agreed that from the autumn a set of laws that can and effectively and sufficiently secure the income side, and not only the income side, but also to ensure changes in the tax system that will have implications on other elements of our system, above all the property tax, income tax, income tax, and, if necessary, some other tax elements that other countries have, such as those of the other countries. interest tax. So at this point, we understand a whole series of these measures here as a necessary step, but of course a step that must continue from autumn. I believe we will agree on how and how to approach the adoption of these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38086	Correction to Mr. Pupovac's presentation, Mr. Mr. Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38087	Well, I'd just like to correct Mr. Popovec's allegations that this is a relief for the harrassing press. So, this law does not foresee income in this year because the government did not predict an increase... /The speaker was excluded and re-plugged./... The government... /The speaker was turned off and turned back on./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38088	So please let the representative go, don't rule him out.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38089	Therefore, the government, based on this amendment, did not foresee an increase in revenue in this year's budget for any June. This amendment to the government this year has absolutely no financial impact on the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38090	I am finalising the debate on Amendment 1. Governments and these three amendments will be voted by electronic means, and the others later will be raised by hands. So please include and vote on Amendment 1 to Article 4 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The result? Amendment 1. The government was accepted by most votes, 99 votes in favour, 11 abstentions and 4 against. We move to the 2nd Amendment of the Government to Article 5(1) and (2).
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38091	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So Amendment 2 is purely nomotechnical harmonisation of the law since we adopted Amendment 1. So you just add one more number, so instead of six is seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38092	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the 2nd amendment. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. Please, let's get on with it. And let's vote of course. The result? The second amendment of the government was accepted by most votes, 101 votes for, 8 abstentions and 3 against. We move on to the Third Amendment of the Government to Article 6 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38093	Since we have adopted Amendment one and two, then Article 6 in paragraph 1 necessary at the end of the sentence to delete the point and add the words "and by paying dividends and the share in profits". Therefore, the non-technical alignment of this article again, given the adoption of the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38094	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the third amendment. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38095	And in this amendment, we want to take another chance to stress that this amendment will have no effect on the revenues of the state budget in this year or in the following year. They will not have them, and thus will not help more significantly in the fairer distribution of this additional burden among working citizens and living on capital. The dividends for this year have been paid, and the reckoning of this will not be. The dividends for next year will also not be paid to avoid paying this charge and there is a very clear answer. Therefore, we are not looking for short-term solutions, because these are short-term solutions as proposed by the government by the end of next year. A long-term, quality solution is sought, a more correct distribution of the tax burden on Croatian citizens, those who live off work and those who live on property. Thus, as fast and efficient as the government imposed an additional tax burden, it was possible to address the tax burdens of those living on property and having property quickly and efficiently. But obviously it's not the government's wish, and we don't believe that the important government will change its behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38096	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the third amendment. Please, let's get on board and vote on it. The result? The government's third amendment was accepted by a majority of 98 votes, 14 abstentions and 4 against. In addition to the Government, the amendment was submitted by representative Silvano Hrelja and the HDSSB Representatives' Club. I ask the Government's representative, Minister Shuker, to be seen on these amendments. First of all, the representative of Silvan Hrelje to the amendment one to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38097	The government does not accept, for the reason that the draft law regulates the issue of suspending pension coordination with the Pension Insurance Act from 1 January 2010 until 31 December 2010, and that provision is also stated in line with the objective of adopting this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38098	Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38099	Dear Minister, I do not agree with your opinion that it is necessary to regulate the matter of pension harmonisation, nor is it necessary or hastening, since this could be done with amendments to the Pension Insurance Act by the end of the year. And we don't write laws for the Ministry of Finance, we write laws for citizens who ask for harmonisation issues safely in the Pension Insurance Act, not in the Special Tax laws. Therefore, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38100	Who is one of the representatives of Silvan Hrelje, who does not accept the amendment? Please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. What? ... Do you think you should count? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] According to the Rules of Procedure, if the President finds that there is no majority, he can immediately conclude that there is no, but if you want to and ask to count, I will repeat the vote. Please, who's for Mr. Hrelje's amendment, first on Article 1, please raise your hand? Please count. Thank you. Who's against this amendment? Thank you. For 45, against 82. You know what, colleagues, that was visible, but. We said we'd vote on government amendments. That's what we said. So this amendment was not accepted because it was all voted by 45 MPs and 82 against. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you want us to extend this session for no reason further? Amendment to Article 4 of the same agent, in paragraph 1 of Mr Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38101	The government does not accept, because the draft law also includes the obligation to pay a special tax on pensions which are not taxed in accordance with the Tax Act... [[/The noise in the hall, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38102	Mr. Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38103	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry you didn't understand the intensity of this amendment. In fact, with the day of entry into force of this law, we can freely declare the day of mourning. In Croatia, there will be no more non-taxable foundations, so there will be no level to be touched, to which tax cannot be applied. It's true, there is no longer an untaxable basis, because with this bill, the law has been decorated. Therefore, I am very sorry, please vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38104	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept on Article 4? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to Article 5 of the same agent. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38105	The government does not accept for reasons why the law regulates the payment of a special income tax, pensions, dividends and shares in profits and other receipts, the total amount of receipts exceeding 3 thousand kuna. And with this bill, somewhere around 900 thousand pensioners will not be affected by this tax by less than 600 thousand employees, and for the sake of the Croatian public, therefore the tax is paid on all receipts of more than 3 thousand per rate of 2%, and on all receipts above 6 thousand per rate of 4%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38106	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38107	Mr. Minister, I again regret that you did not recognise the intensity of this amendment in terms of the protection of an institute that is very valuable, one border that must not be applied, or tax applied. And I'm sorry that you didn't recognize in this amendment the intention of protecting those who pay most in Croatia, will now pay even more. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38108	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to Article 6 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38109	Therefore, the government does not accept for the simple reason that the draft law is in line with the rules on taxation of incomes which is prescribed that the exceptional Croatian Pension Insurance Office may pay an advance of income tax on non-permanent labour, by the end of the month in which the pension is paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38110	Mr. Hrelja's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38111	This is technical, and I would like to ask you to explain in some future period how the incomes from the contribution, revenues from the state budget, and now the money will be paid by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which the pension money does not have. So the money's always in the budget. Therefore, I do not understand how the money will be paid at the end of the month after the pension has been suspended, and the money itself is in the state budget. Please explain that to me. And explain that and a lot of my and your colleagues here partying how you plan to do it. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38112	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the minister. And we also have an article on Article 5, also Mr. Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38113	The government doesn't accept. Because the bill covers pensions, not pensions governed by the Pensions Act, and within the meaning of this Act, these allowances are not considered to be pensions and are not subject to the obligation to pay taxes. I think that's also the Pension Insurance Act, as well as the Retirement Supplement Act. And with this supplement, it's exactly what's being taxed. So we don't think this amendment of yours makes any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38114	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38115	I know, and I suggested an amendment for purely psychological reasons because 471,000 pensioners, new pensioners who partially received the supplement were very upset. I know that. I'm glad the minister gave an explanation that would be in the phonogram. And that's quite enough for me. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38116	This amendment has been withdrawn. We still have the amendment of the HDSSB's club on Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38117	The government doesn't accept. Because the HDSSB club proposes a completely different way of paying taxes. Therefore, it does not comply with the other principles and objectives of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38118	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38119	All this time, you've been saying that this crisis is something that we should all suffer equally. According to your proposal, it doesn't come out that way. I'll just give an example. So a man who lives as a single man has a salary or a pension of three thousand and 100 kuna. The crisis tax will pay like that man who has three thousand and 100 kuna and has an unemployed wife and five small children. By accepting this amendment of ours, I think that this burden of crisis would just be divided equally into everything and the government would thus show that this law also has this tax crisis a social note, that it is properly distributed to the back of citizens. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38120	Thank you. Who is for this amendment to the HDSSB Representatives Club? Please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill has been adopted by most votes. 82 votes in favour, one abstention and 45 against. Along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38121	And we're going to the fourth point of the agenda, which is 4. Proposal for a bill on wages in local and regional (regional) self-government, first reading, P.Z. No. 415 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. You took the materials into the box. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Davorin Mlakar, Minister of Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38122	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government points to a first reading, a bill that aims for the first time to regulate the issue of employees' and officials' salaries in local and regional or regional self-government. So far, the provisions of the laws that regulated this matter have left de facto plenty of space to come up with quite unequal criteria for determining wages, regardless of the size, economic or financial strength of a single unit of local self-government. Since one of the intensities to be paid throughout the system is, therefore, the state administration and local self-government and public services, offices in the same way, and according to the provisions of the Law on the salaries of civil servants and the allocation of coefficients and other elements for the calculation of wages, the Government has proposed this law in which for the first time we have arranged not only a range of coefficients for the calculation of the salaries of each individual official in local or regional self-government, professional staff and subsistence, but also compensation for the work of those who do not carry out their activity as professional and we have also laid down a basis for the accounting of salaries and officials and employees in local self-government. What is important to note is that, in an analysis of the current way of calculating wages in local self-government, we have obtained data that distinguishes these salaries several times and mainly as one, I would say, the specialty of perhaps the Croatian system, and the wages are generally more than the salaries in the state service, are more than the salaries of many Croatian officials at the state level, and thus are often more than the salaries in the public sector, therefore in public services. For the support of these claims, another element goes forward, which is that on the basis of statistical indicators, we have taken into account the total budget of the counties, cities and municipalities and weighted it by their numbers, we have come to the conclusion that all units together spend more than 23% of their incomes, total incomes, I am not talking about the original incomes of these units, on expenditures for employees, therefore on salaries, and that if these expenditures, and often can be defended and such a position, we add material expenditure to employees, these expenditures are up to 60 percent. I'm talking about the average, I can't talk about each other, I can't even talk about it, or I'm obliged to point out that there are units that have very precisely arranged and financed the work of their services with little cost. But there are examples that certain salaries have crossed over and, in gross, I say, 40,000 kunas a month, with us not at this time preparing the law or calculating all what the burdens of personal deductions are, etc., but in principle and therefore the wages were also more than 30,000 kunas net. We thought and thought that if a single system is introduced to calculate salaries that in this system it is not logical that local self-government leaders have more salaries than the President of the Republic, and that most of the jobs where the provisions of the Civil Service Act are analoguely applied can be compared with those of the State Service. So this law was built on the principle that we compared the jobs in the state administration to the ones in the local self-government, and according to that schedule, we determined both the coefficients and the base for the salary calculation. I am obliged to note that local self-government's salary has been most often determined on the basis of collective agreements, most often those collective agreements with local self-government units have been concluded by the union of state and local officials and tenants. This was possible, although the law and what was a discussion so far on the committees on which this law was at, raised the question of the constitutionality and legality of the provisions of this law and whether it is possible for the state to intervene in wages locally from the point of view of the central state of law. I'll remind you, perhaps in this introduction, that we've already made payments in local self-government by law. As early as 2001, the Law on civil servants and tenants laid down wage accounting ranges, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government regulated the basic criteria and said that it would be determined by a special law, also since 2001, and the issue of constitutionality or legality of such provisions was never asked. In view of the Charter of Local Self-Government, we pointed out this, and there is no obstacle on the parliamentary committees to the central government's bodies, or to the proposal of the Law to settle salaries in the local state. The Charter of Local Self-Government always says that local relations are regulated in accordance with the laws adopted. In addition, local units must take care of the public interest for which they are established and which are to be protected and we believe that in some ways and through the determination of wages in local self-government, they put the public interest that makes them exist, not that, as seen from some elements, they become themselves because they spend more than 50% of their budget on receiving their employees. In view of what I have said so far, we have an opinion that we have the basis to regulate these salaries by law that it is perfectly in line with our current regulations and laws to determine for the first time these limits for the account of salaries, to set the basis for the calculation of these salaries, and for the first time in a system of salaries in the public service, to some extent and to introduce all those employed in the local self-government. It may well be noted that we have also spent relatively recently for the first time direct elections for the leaders of local units, for the first time changed in some way the relationship, or the behaviour of the executive authority that is no longer in the hands of the headship, but one executive head, mayor, or mayor, and that, given the political readings in local units, we stick to the proper regulation of the law and the lowest and highest coefficient for calculating their salaries so as not to bring ourselves into a situation that we can already testify about because we also have such questions that political considerations are resolved through the determination of salaries by political opponents or political rivals. So, what we have presented and what has been a discussion so far and on committees, we believe that it is perfectly appropriate and that it may even be necessary for the first time for the first time in local self-government to put them in the system, that we can even compare them with the salaries of civil servants, state officials, and we believe that this is the best way to make time, I believe that it cannot be less than a year for all these sectors, that we can try to create a single law that includes salaries and state and local administrations and self-government and all public services that are also financed from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38123	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I have a Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, Honorable Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38124	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. At its 35th session held on 27 July, the Committee for Local and Regional (regional Self-Government) discussed the draft law on wages in local and regional (regional) self-government as a home labour body. In his opening statement, he pointed out that this proposal lays down the criteria for determining the salaries and compensation of mayors, mayors and municipal mayors and their deputies, as well as the salaries of officials and deputies in the administrative departments and departments of local and regional (regional) self-government units. The proposer stressed that the proposed solution lays down wages on a unique basis in local and regional (regional) self-government, while respecting the needs and specificities and budgetary opportunities of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. After the introduction of the proposal's representative, most committee members in the debate supported the draft law in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the opinion of part of the Committee members, the solutions proposed by this proposal to the law violate the fundamental constitutional provisions on the autonomy of local self-government and introduce centralised into the wage system in the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. In this regard, it is pointed out that the bill does not respect the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which promotes and raises the autonomy of local units, both in terms of their work, and in terms of the resources needed to implement them. For example, Article 9 ... the Charter lays down sources of funding for local units and prescribes the right of local units to make adequate revenues freely available in the exercise of its powers, while respecting the principle that the system of financing the income of local units must be sufficiently diverse and evolutionary in order to be proportionate to their powers provided for in the Constitution and the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, in the debate, the opinion under which the proposed law is opposed to conventions number 98 and 154 of the international labour organisation, which also regulate collective bargaining and completely contrary to the findings of the Euroian Public Servicis Union study, the social dialogue in the local and regional authorities of April this year, which show that collective bargaining at local and regional level is one of the democratic gains of all EU member states. The debate sets out an opinion under which the reasons for this proposal does not show whether the total amount of expenditure for salaries in local and regional (regional) self-government at the level of the consolidated local state will increase or decrease. In this respect, it was indicated that the impact analysis of this bill on a limited number of officials and officials found that in certain cases wage expenditures would be reduced, while in other cases these expenditures would be increased. In relation to the decision submitted in Articles 4 and 9 of the Law establishing a range of coefficients for the calculation of the salaries of mayors, mayors, municipal mayors, as well as a range of coefficients of local officials and subsistences, an opinion has been given to ensure that the volume of coefficients should be coordinated with the powers, majority and financial capacity of the local, or regional unit. For example, large cities have the powers and budgets of larger or equal county, so the responsibility of the head of the big city is greater or equal to the responsibility of, for example, the head of the county. The opinion was also given that the regulation of the local service coefficients should be determined by the executive bodies of the local and regional (regional) self-government units. In this respect, it has been pointed out that the state service coefficient is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and given that this bill is harmonising the system of wages in local and regional (regional) self-government with the civil service pay system and the regulation of coefficients should be regulated simultaneously, i.e. the regulation of coefficients should be left to the mayor, mayor and municipal chief, the debate indicated that Article 78 was. A law on officials and tenants in local and regional (regional) self-government is prescribed to be classified in local and regional self-government according to standard standards for all administrative bodies and that this classification is the basis for the arrangement of the system of salaries of officials and subsistence. Article 79 of that Law provides that the classification of posts is governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 122(1) provides that the Government will adopt that regulation within 30 days of the date of entry into force of a special law governing the salaries of officials and temporary staff. In this respect, the opinion under which it is not logical for local units to adopt their yachts in the payment system before the entry into force of the classification system Regulation and in this respect should make appropriate amendments to the transitional and final provisions of this law. Therefore, Article 11 of the Law also lays down a period of 30 days from the date of entry into force of this law in which the representative body of the local and regional (regional) self-government should decide on the determination of the wage coefficients in the local self-government, which would lead to the situation that local units regulate the payment system twice over a short period of time, in accordance with the transitional provisions of this law, and subsequently to comply with the classification job regulation. The debate also expressed an opinion that does not allow for an acceptable solution in which local units cannot determine the basis for the calculation of salaries on their own. The proposed solutions fully determine the wages at local level, which raises the role of the union in representing the rights of local officials and subsistence with employers, i.e. local officials and subsistences, do not have the ability to negotiate with employers on the basis of the wage calculation as can be done by civil servants and subsistence. This also points to the problem of collective agreements concluded in units of local self-government, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3(2). Law on officials and tenants in local and regional (regional) self-government which are prescribed that collective agreements may regulate the standards and other rights of officials and subsistence in the administrative bodies of local units. In the opinion of part of the board members, the issue of salaries in the local self-government should be resolved by limiting the share of expenditure on salaries of officials, officials and subsistences in the total income of local units without receipts. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by majority of votes 4 for and 3 against the Croatian Parliament to propose a conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on Salary in Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government would be adopted, and the opinion and proposals would be presented in the debate to the Proposer when drawing up the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38125	Thank you. Do the other committees want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. And again, the esteemed Zvonimir Mršić, on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38126	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. My first question would be why? Why are you doing this? So the Law on Local Self-Government was supposed to set standards for officials' salaries in local self-government 5 years ago. For five years, she failed to execute what was defined by law. The government had a year, more than a year to establish salaries in local and regional (regional) self-government, as the Law on local officials and tenants came into effect a year ago. And then suddenly on July 1st, the world collapsed. Nothing that existed before July 1st no longer exists. Suddenly, a hack, a harangus, started on local self-government. At one point someone realized that there were sheriffs with huge salaries, receipts and cars. That there's a local administration with huge salaries, cars, and I don't know what, which is at this point the biggest problem of the state. And overnight, you sit down with your coworkers at the table and write the law. And you make one law out of these two laws. Because if we solve the issue of salaries of officials in local self-government, some of whom have dared to have large salaries and salaries of local self-government employees, we will solve all the problems in this country. First of all, I don't know who he is when and where he made the decision to even the wages in the state administration and local self-government, where is that conclusion, and who made it? Did the government bring him in and what she has with local self-government? Did the Parliament bring it? Not that I know of. Did the association of cities, municipalities and county communities bring it? No, I don't. Where is the right to tell the government that they'll even their wages with this or that? Where does the government's right to violate what she has arranged, for example, on the Economic Social Council? And at the Economic Social Council held on 26 June 2008, it was agreed that, while respecting the need for equalisation of public administration employees' salaries, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will start with the establishment of a single pay system at the level of the entire level of equal management, the process of harmonisation of salaries by differentiated growth will end at the precise planned dynamics of over several years. In which no official should be paid to fall, the coordination should be done gradually. It's said here, so this is the 2008 conclusion of harmonisation, it's talked about a longer period of time, it's talked about phasing out, it's said that no one will lose what rights they had until then. And what do we get on the table? A law that says within 30 or you line up or you get minimum wages. Also today, from this opening presentation of the minister, as well as the prime ministers, as well as all those who are so keen to discuss local self-government, you do not see the line where the border between what is a haranga on officials and what is a desire to regulate the status of officials and subsistence. So we say a little bit that high-paying officials, and then we say that we need to regulate the status of professional associates. Let's separate it. If we're so bothered by these directly elected leaders of the local self-government unit, then let's give the law that they don't have the right to pay. It doesn't matter that they went to the polls, it doesn't matter what the citizens chose, it doesn't matter what they got 50% of the votes. So tell me, they don't have the right to pay. And they shouldn't have the right to pay if we're gonna get to it. If that's what we're gonna do. But let's separate that anger, unwarranted anger towards the directly elected leaders of local self-government from the people who work in that local self-government. Let's separate it, let's try to solve it separately. So let's go over the criteria as the law says about the salaries of officials in one way or by one regulation and by law, let's let those people who are committed to working in local self-government define things in a completely different way. At the same time, too many units of local self-government are being talked about. And now we've got statistics from the minister that on average this, on average, that, on average, it's like this, on average, on average. It's about statistics when you say you have ants and elephants, and we in local self-government have ants and elephants, and we'll work the criteria for the calf. And that's what this law looks like. We have an ant called at least a municipality in Croatia with 138 voters or 168 I think residents and we have an elephant with the largest city, the largest unit of local self-government that is the City of Zagreb. You can't make an average for these two units to local self-government. You must respect specificities. We don't know by what time we repeat that there are too many local self-government individuals, but don't, for your inactivity, don't worry about punishing everyone. We warned the Secretary of State of the Central State Administration. He didn't want to hear it. I thought he'd be punished, but he was rewarded. He became a constitutional judge. Today, when the Ministry of Administration would strictly want to implement the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, the Law on the Communist Economy, some other laws, hundreds of local self-government units could no longer function. So let's sanction it. Let's say, let's determine what powers these are to local self-government, which means the municipalities and what the municipality must meet and what it must look like and what fiscal capacity it must have to have in order to be a municipality. Let's define what the city is, so let's say what it has to meet which fiscal capacity it has, what administrative capacity it has to have to be a city and that it has to have a mayor. Let's say what is a big city that fiscal capacity, which administrative capacity, which powers and that can be a big city. Let's say what the county is and let's say at the end what the City of Zagreb is, because the City of Zagreb has a special status. Instead of doing that, we're going here with one sentence, first of all to officials and tenants in local self-government. You see in local self-government there are a large number of collective agreements concluded. I ask the question, who can declare an invalid collective contract? Which social dialogue we are talking about when Mrs. Kosor comes for this pay phone and says that social dialogue is in action. This law is against employers, because the employer in local self-government is not the government, but the mayor or representative body, depending on how we interpret it. There's a union against this law, and yet we're discussing the law. Who's the one who wants to regulate relationships like this between the employer and the union without having any responsibility in it? If the government wants to settle salaries in local self-government, will the government guarantee their payment. Will the government in the units of local self-government where the problem with the budget is guaranteed that these salaries will be paid? No, I don't. No, I don't. You see, there is a huge inconsistency in the government, even ministers in the same government, because I would be very interested in how Mrs. Dropulic voted in favour of the bill. A year and a half ago when Mrs Dropulic was here who had the courage to implement the amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government in large cities and adopted an amendment to the Law on Spatial Planning and to decentralisation the issue of building permits. Among other things, she said that the state administration has huge difficulties in operating in issuing building permits because the state administration pays system cannot employ professional personnel who issue building permits and since wages in local self-government are somewhat higher that local self-government can do so. And cities and counties, great cities and counties have taken over people, jobs, set up a system, and now those people who are therefore rewarded will be punished because those small ones who spend 100% of their budget on salaries anyway will not be affected by this. Those who have state transfers to live by political discretion will not be affected by this law. The only units of local self-government living off their work will be affected. Only units of local self-government in which the mayor cannot call the minister to send him pay money will be affected by this. Because in order to establish a system in their units of local self-government they had to have a small and efficient city or municipal administration that would create a foundation, a base for small local taxes from which these local taxes would be collected in order to ensure the functioning of local self-government. In these units of local self-government, you will not have this average of which the minister spoke that 60% of the budget is paid to pay. And no, in these units local self-government is paid less than 20% of the salary. The Ministry doesn't have a picture of the salary in local self-government because I know how the data was collected. So if the head of the state administration's office called and asked what the mayor's salary and his deputies were, and almost, a point. He has no idea what the Department of Administration's salaries are like for the head and some other people who work in local self-government. But now they just want to fix it. Which, I repeat, we absolutely do not want to enter the content of this law. We believe that this law is anti-constitutional because the Constitution says that units of local self-government are available by means of their activities and their powers. This law is contrary to the Labour Act because everything that has been done so far in local self-government has been done in accordance with the law. All collective agreements were concluded in accordance with the law, all the rules or general acts adopted by the representative bodies of the local self-government unit came to the control of the state administration office and the state administration's offices said they were in accordance with the law. Everyone, at least that's how it is with me. I don't know how others work. ... No, everyone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And ministers, according to law, each unit of local self-government has an obligation, the head of the local self-government unit has an obligation within 15 days to deliver a general act to the state administration's office for supervision. It's a legal obligation. If someone doesn't do it and you give them a sanction, then you tell them who doesn't. This law is therefore the opposite of the position of the City Association, this law is contrary to the union. The union said this law can't pass as such and yet it's here for us to discuss. I propose on behalf of the club that this law be withdrawn since it has already given up its adoption on 1 August, that the government sits with employers, which are cities, municipalities and counties, and together make up the criteria by which the salaries of local self-government employees will be determined. If you need to tell the government how much it takes to pay the mayor, the mayor and everything else, don't punish people. This law will average salaries in local self-government in cities and municipalities more than 30% and will result in exodus of capable people from local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38127	Thank you. I just want to point out that the law is in the first reading and that there is certainly much more to be fixed and done until the second reading. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38128	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Since no specific legislation has been passed so far laying down basic criteria for determining the salary or remuneration of mayors, mayors and municipal mayors and their deputy representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government have generally been determined by decision of the mayors, mayors, mayors, municipal commissioners and their deputies. Today, we have under these decisions, as we have heard, for example, some of the mayors of the municipality's special state care financed from funds to compensate better paid than those of the cities that finance them. I would not be surprised, or surprised to the Government, who wonders at this information because these same municipalities or units of local self-government were obliged to send the same government their reports. So the bill promoter rated it necessary to prescribe, I add that, of course, it has been so far but obviously not wanted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on local and regional self-government. For years, the government has been failing to regulate the area, although under the laws governing the functioning and status of residents in local self-government, it is required to propose criteria for determining the salaries of the mayor, mayor and mayor. Today, we have before us a proposal for a bill of wages in local and regional self-government on which the basis for the calculation of salaries and coefficients of local officials and subsistences is equal to that of civil servants. The union said, and I agree with that, they are equating in poverty. The proposal also says that this law will achieve the savings of the state budget for the financing of material expenditures by a large number of units of local and regional self-government, but also a significant savings in the budgets of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Let's see what the data and numbers say. Number of employees in the administrative bodies and users of the local unit budget in Croatia since '97. by 2008 it increased by 80% dizziness. Of these, the number of employees in local authorities increased 60% and the number of employees in the budget increased by as much as 124%. Local units in Croatia were employing 66 thousand 800 workers last year, of which some 30,000 people worked in utility companies. Every year, the number of employees in local units increased by around 2000, and most of the new jobs were opened last year when the crisis was already well-wrestling Croatia. In 2008, the number of employees rose about 9%. This data on the employment epidemic in local units is presented by the Institute of Public Finance in an analysis of the structure of employees at local level. The number of employees, according to the Institute, would be higher if all employees in enterprises or institutions owned by local units whose municipal services are not essential. Specially shocking data are that in 11 years, the number of employees in county bodies has increased by as much as 161%, in municipalities, the number of employees increased by 68% and in cities by 47%. The European Regulation prescribes that a maximum of 9% of the budget goes to employees' salaries, and some of our cities and municipalities spend 23% of the budget on this purpose and more. I would mention that the average salary of the mayor in Croatia is 19500 kuna and the mayor is 24 thousand kuna. By this law, as I said, we're cutting salaries for employees in local self-government units. More effective than cutting wages would be further stimulating those who are worth it. Destimulation for about 10% of employees, not only in public administration, but also in public enterprises, is, of course, the first step in stopping employment and draining through specific requalification programmes and the rest. Today, for example, there are 70% more people in the HAC on maintenance and charge than the European standard. The level of wages paid by local administrations as it is now and is not the biggest problem, although I agree there should be order, but it is also necessary to open the issue of too many units of local self-government, as often the purpose of their existence is just paying salaries to local officials. Croatia has 576 local units. For comparisons, we have more than the UK that has 15 times the population. Although experts have been warning for years that they should be a maximum of 200, the number of units has been growing each year. In the last six years, the city's status has been given four new local units, and seven new municipalities have been established. At the same time, no case of association of small municipalities in one major or large has been reported. So we have, as is known, 21 counties, 126 cities and 430 municipalities. It has already been mentioned, I will add, that strange criteria are how the city becomes, and how the municipality, and from setting the criteria, the central government always runs away so as not to hurt its party base. Cities, municipalities and counties, in my opinion, can only be those that are economically sustainable. Therefore, classic economic indicators such as the number of employees, GDP per capita should be used, the average salary paid to the municipality, the deficit of the local budget, and ultimately the amount of the budget available and its allocation per capita, in a similar way that we cannot access or introduce the euro in the European Union unless certain criteria are met. On the basis of these criteria, the salaries of the leaders and the number of staff in the administration could be determined. Aid would only be granted for infrastructure investments, not current costs. Economically justified projects would be co-financed, a certain income per capita would be among the criteria for the establishment of the municipality. The current system is ineffective and needs to be changed, but it will not happen because there is no time for creating and justified criteria, and without them, help will continue to be shared with regard to the amount of gifts brought to Zagreb or to the inevitable party membership. But let's go back to the bill that will certainly bring about, as I mentioned, a reduction in employees' salaries. My Zagorci did not wait for this government's law to cut the salaries of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor who wears it, it is already mentioned here, and the termination of collective contracts. At local level, they cut their salary by 11% on average, I'm talking about county workers. The criteria for working in the state service must be expertise, knowledge of foreign languages, information literacy, communication ability. The public administration must be small, efficient, uncorruptional, but well-paid. In my opinion, the government must propose, and we in this House vote the percentage of the budget in the units of local self-government to be used to pay employees with respect to specificity. If we accept this bill, it is certain that in local self-government units we will lose professional and capable personnel who are the only guarantee that units of local self-government will serve their citizens and improve their quality, fair and dedicated work. As I have already mentioned, the HNS will not, for these reasons, which I have stated to support this law and we are asking for changes to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38129	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Very often lately in this assembly there's been talk of salary heights, mostly managerial wages. After them about the mayor's salaries, the mayor's salaries, the employees' salaries. The least I can think of is the ministerial salaries, the Prime Minister, the president of the state, and lately, here are our officials who will be 19% cut in wages. It's justifiable to talk about these salaries. There is a huge disproportionateness in wages in view of today's situation and the usual at the time of this financial crisis. It is unacceptable that the head of the municipality or mayor or mayor has a higher salary than the President of the Parliament, the President of the State or the Minister, and there are such cases, and this has been seen because it was not regulated by law, or by law it was regulated that the salary height would be regulated by a special law and now the time has come to regulate it. There is a situation that a municipality with 1,000 inhabitants and a settlement, that the head of the municipality has a higher salary than the municipality with 30,000 inhabitants and 32 settlements. It doesn't make any sense, it doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. The law regulates that question. Article 4 of this Act lays down the coefficients for the calculation of mayors' salaries, mayors, mayors of large cities, other cities, municipal mayors, and these coefficients have ranges, and it is envisaged that the representative body of units of local and regional self-government can determine between these ranges. In addition, Article 9 provides for certain ranges for all types of jobs, categorized in 4 types. Analysing the share of the cost of salaries at the level of the budget, it is also evident that there is also a huge disproportionate proportion of the available data in some municipalities or cities the share of the salaries of all employees is even minimal, 2 to 3.4% of the total amount of the budget, while there are municipalities where it is 80 and 90%. Such unbalanced relations are also unsustainable, long-term unsustainable and should certainly be considered and taken advantage of the occasion because this is the first reading to give little thought and to the possibility of a legal restriction on the total amount of salary at the total level of the budget. It is also an opportunity to say that the time has come to consider a large number of municipalities and cities. There were times when decisions on municipalities and cities were made lightly, now it is time to streamline in all segments of society, as well as in that part of society. We also think it is time to make it clear, establish and review the role of counties in units of local and regional self-government. Also, one big problem that should be taken into account when adopting this law is that it happens to institutions owned by units of local and regional self-government so that it does not happen now after the application of this law if it is passed, and it will, possibly, that the mayor of the municipality or mayor has a significantly lower salary than the director of the institution to which the municipality is the owner. So he takes care of all these segments to make one balance. This bill will certainly lead to a balance of wages in local administration and self-government units, and therefore the HDZ club will also support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38131	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club, distinguished counterpart Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. In times of economic and economic crisis, it is a difficult and unpleasant time to deal with politics. I say this because it is a period in which politicians are forced to make decisions that are not always popular and that create a negative image in public. In recent local elections, the same public chose its representatives with full confidence in their future decisions and moves to make on behalf of the same public who chose them. In ideal and favourable circumstances, it is easy to make decisions because they favor the public at the time, but in adverse times and times of crisis, each decision has two double consequences. In recent days, we have often heard in a political era that in times of crisis, unpopular measures must be taken. When it comes to these same unpopular measures, it is primarily thought of those which directly or indirectly influence the remuneration of employees, the reduction of social rights, the increase of the tax obligations of all citizens to the state or other measures. Respecting the current economic circumstances in which the entire state has found itself, while not forgetting the global economic crisis with a view to finding a solution to exit from this same crisis, we believe it is necessary to adopt measures that will regulate the area of wages in units of local, regional, or regional self-government. As the rights and obligations and responsibilities are known, as well as other issues of importance for the work of officials and subsistence in the administrative bodies of units of local and regional self-government have been governed by the Law on Officials and corporals in local and regional self-government, which entered into force on 31 July 2008. However, the same law did not regulate their salaries, but applied to the provisions of the Law on civil servants and tenants prescribed that wages make up a multiplier of the complexity of jobs to which the official, i.e. the householder, was assigned and the basis for calculating the wages increased by 0.5% for each completed year of work. In the light of the provisions of the Law on civil servants and substitutors of the unit of local and regional self-government, employees did not determine uniformly, but in different ways by collective agreements, decisions by representative bodies or by an appropriate act of headship, resulting in a normative disorder, i.e. leading to a disproportionate relationship between the manner of accounting and the level of salaries of state and local officials. In practice, units of local and regional self-government have been established by a decision of the representative authority or by an appropriate act by a basis for the calculation of wages, where the non-performing coefficients for the calculation of wages have been established significantly beyond the range set out in Article 109(4). Law on civil servants and tenants, resulting in significantly higher salaries of officials and subsistences in local and regional self-government units compared to officials and subsistence officers in the state administration. At the same time, despite the original revenues of the units of local and regional self-government, funds were also received from the state budget. This proposal lays down the criteria for the adjustment of salaries and remuneration of mayors, mayors and mayors, as well as their deputies, as well as the salaries of officials and deputies in the administrative departments and services of units of local and regional (regional) self-government with the aim of harmonising and equating salaries in local and regional self-government with salaries in the state service and public services. The basis of the salary and the coefficient for their calculation would be equated with the state administration's incomes, which aims to eliminate the practice so far that officials and subsistences in local and regional self-government are significantly better paid by officials and subsistence in the state administration. We are also witnessing that individual mayors, i.e. the leaders of units of local and regional self-government, have a higher salary than the president of the state, for example. or President-in-Office of the Parliament, which is an indicator of a non-compliant and inappropriate evaluation system. The introduction of a wage calculation coefficient system will avoid such situations and uniform pay-determination criteria will be introduced. The Association of Cities also argues that this bill violates the fundamental constitutional provisions on the autonomy of local self-government and introduces centralisation in the wage system, in particular in the following provisions. In Article 5, according to which the laws in the Republic of Croatia must be in accordance with the Constitution, Article 16 under which freedoms and rights can only be restricted by law in order to protect the freedoms and rights of other people and legal order. In Article 135, according to which units of local and regional (regional) self-government have the right to self-organise the internal structure and the detour of their bodies. In Article 136, 137, and to keep on the list. Union representatives also stress that the working material of this bill has not been delivered to the trade unions for the purposes of Article 27(5). Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, social partners point out that the proposed law in question is contrary to the conventions, namely the number 98 and 154 of the International Labour Organisations, which regulate collective bargaining and social dialogue in local and regional authorities, stressing that collective bargaining at local and regional level is one of the democratic gains of all EU member states and should be taken into account as such. In addition, regarding the proposed coefficients and their range, provisions should be developed to take account of the self-administrative self-rule for the implementation of which the funds are provided from the original revenues. We advocate to consider the comments and suggestions made and to hold a systematic discussion until the second reading. The fact is that units of local and regional (regional) self-government have their original incomes, but also the fact that these same units of local self-government are financed from the state budget on a variety of legal basis, such as paved roads, capital projects, permanent values and the like. From the above, it is clear that the units of local and regional (regional) self-government are independent of income and an unwarranted requirement is that local and regional officials and officials be in a privileged position compared to the state. The relevant law significantly restricts the abuse of local leaders on the occasion of the availability of financial resources and regardless of its shortcomings, which will be apostrophyd during this debate today. We believe that it provides a fairer platform of salary accounts, but with additional criteria and finishing. Since we have before us a proposal for a law that is in regular procedure, we believe that through today's debate the observations made in the coming time will come up with solutions that will guarantee a fairer and more uniform system of evaluation. We advocate that employees be adequately paid, that they can live with dignity from their work, but we also believe that the principle of justice, equal terms, equality and social justice should be introduced without unfounded privileges. And I finally believe that together we share a justifiable fear of... quality and professional staff due to low or minimum salaries, which will not contribute to the safe efficiency of local and regional self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we also have enough time until the second reading to complete this bill with additional criteria that will offer even more quality solutions from the proposal of this law in which the HSS Club will participate actively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38133	Thank you. We've got one report of a rectification. Dear colleague Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38134	Well, we understand our colleague because he's in a very difficult situation, he's recently been a member of the City Association's presidency, and now he has to attack his position in front of the City Association. I just want to make it right, even though it's the correction of the bill. Here he says, he said the standards are in law. They didn't measure. There are measures in the law. The criteria do not have any, financial, fiscal, human capacity, population or the like. These are just measurements.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, distinguished colleague Ratko Gajica. Here you go, buddy. And you two, you're both from the presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38136	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I will comment briefly on this proposal that we are talking about, and I will say first of all that, with principled remarks that linear measures can produce a steady injustice or that autonomy is limited. Or that it may come as it is said here to the outflows of capable people. Nevertheless, this issue of local self - government needs to be opened in a broader sense. I think it's time for that question to be opened. I understand that this law that we have received here as a proposal opens only one segment of what we mean by local self-government and I think we're opening it up like that at the gesture level. No matter what the financial effects wear. But we're opening it at the level of a political gesture right now, given that we're in a difficult situation, considering that we're sitting here with extraordinary questions of extraordinary nature, and that we want to send a message that we want to change something in all segments and on the question of money. And that is why, because of this gesture and because of the message, we support this action and support this law. Of course, we'll see in the end how the final proposal will turn out. But that question I say must be opened or otherwise said, something must be done in that segment. But I'm adding, it's not enough to discuss this matter just at the gesture level. It will be necessary, Mr. Minister, it will be necessary to open this total issue of local self-government with the content of functionality, with the content of budgeting, with the content of how life is organised in local space for the benefit of citizens. That's where I think there's a lot of questions and even more answers we need to give. I know that this bill neither opens it nor this is possible. But simply the total package of local self-government cannot be avoided when we talk about something in that segment having to be done. We see this as a first step, I repeat this as a political gesture and as a political message that the people will, they will, I expect to produce a positive effect. Another thing I need to say here. This is about the arrangements he's paying for. I think something should have been done regardless, but I have already said what linear measures can cause injustice in concrete cases, even in relation to specific people, and also in relation to the specific difficulties that individual officials have. I feel like I'm saying this right now in the sphere of assessment, but it seems to me that these measures, as my colleague Hanzek says, achieve at least the scale between the role and the importance of a function that someone in the local government is performing and the height of his salary. I am fully aware that there are various deviations and that some people will unwarrantedly be suspended, as some will quite justifiably have a pay cut. It's just that when you cut the law, you cut it that way. But I don't think the fairer the ratio in paying local authorities is going to be achieved. Or at least we're sending a message to replace the conversation there, which is fair, which is less just, which is unfair. I don't know if I have the right to say it, but it seems to me that with this determination of measures to determine or otherwise determine wages, can we also question the use of money and budgets by local self-government? It's probably a question that needs to be opened probably not at this level. But what we're doing right now and the political measures that can be placed from this place, we should probably make local self-government units talk about it. The use of money from local budgets from the point of view of purpose, from the point of view of rationality, from the point of view of fairer distribution, which all comes from. We know what that means. Again in the context of the whole story that we're having today and yesterday and tomorrow, and that's called, let's do it or rougher to say save public finances. And that's part of the package. Now. It's about pay. I have a need to add one more thing. And let's just say it's meant to be. In addition to this issue of regulating the criteria for determining salaries and holders of functions and employees. There is also room for the opening of a system of local self-government, from the point of view of functionality, and from the point of view of costing. We have spoken on several occasions in this place in this House and often repeat the slogan of judicial reform. And we've hoped to each other that we're talking about something that's necessary and something that's useful. The same goes for management. Therefore, it is necessary both to reform the administration and those state and local ones. And it seems to me with the same arguments and the same purpose. And I very much hope that what we are talking about today about determining or setting up wages will not only remain on it but also, for the sake of saving and for the sake of functionality, we would have to open up the issue of the functioning of the administration as a whole because the efficiency of local self-government depends on it, depending on the implementation of the law, which depends on the attitude towards citizens, depending on the achievement or non-compliance of the numerous rights of ordinary man. It is likely that we will come to the conclusion that a serious reconstruction is necessary in this too, or that at least a serious cut is necessary in this regard, but to what conclusion do we reach? And I'm going to say two more things here that apply to what I just said about the functioning of the administration. I'm kind of afraid we're getting two problems together right now. One is that the administration is numerous, not to say too many and that it costs both this state and the local one. And the other thing that is equally bad and equally dangerous is that it's done old-fashionedly, that it's done sloppyly, that it's done with a number of mental prejudices and that it's done without the necessary respect for a citizen as a stranger and according to the rules established by the Law of Administrative Procedure. It is all a serious matter that makes this story about the functioning of the administration, I repeat the administrations in general in the Republic of Croatia must enter, the issue must be entered. And now I'm going to conclude that way, at the gesture level. This law is good, acceptable, we want to support it and we would like it to produce a good political message first and foremost. This may be more important than saving money that can be achieved, but we suggest that this issue is therefore opening the issue of the functioning of the administration in Croatia as soon as possible, so that we can see what is here on things and see how it should be arranged to make it more efficient, that equal or slightly less cost us and that people, quality people from these structures, do not run away from us, as is happening now. I'm aware it's a big serious bite, but we're here to take into account that I don't say mouth and big bites, especially serious political bites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, distinguished colleague Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38138	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I must say, I have the impression that we have an instant draft bill on wages in local and regional self-government. Yesterday, as we talked about the budget, many of the new taxes, or each other's MP, talked about rationalization in the state and public administration, about billions spent on inefficient administration, about how painful cuts were needed there. Today when we opened a new Law on wages in local self-government units and when we talk about how bigger they are, etc. I think we also have to open up one painful question and that is too many units of local self-government because certainly at 4.5 million inhabitants of 21 counties of 127 cities and 429 municipalities is certainly too much, it is just a little over 13,000 employees, certainly and 14 billion expenditures, and therefore we have the right to talk about it, we have the right to talk here and here about cuts and savings. But I'm saying, it wouldn't be good if we did it in a hurry. In fact, when it is being monitored that almost 250 units of local self-government are being helped by the state in order to overcome the cold drive or to survive, and not to mention that all investments and all that are to be made in the service of citizens must be received from the state budget, that a large part of these units of local self-government precisely because they are located or in the field of special state care whether they are located in mountainous and mountainous areas or in islands with certain tax benefits that they benefit not only from the funds for alignment but also from the Ministry of Finance very often the government's intervention funds in order to pay at all. It happens to us that on the ground we have municipalities that have a whole municipality of 14 people and 14 employees of them work in the municipality, to collect 240 thousand original tax revenues, which is certainly not enough for half of these employees. We have another municipality with its own income of almost 1.9 million, leaving 1.5 for wages. And it would be judged and certainly necessary to determine how much income from the originals can be spent on wages. In 2005, the Law on Local Self-Government stated in Article 90 that basic criteria for determining the salaries of the mayors, mayors and mayors are governed by a special law, but today several times here it is said that the law has not been passed, that representative bodies have been left to make decisions on the height of the salary indeed without these basic standards, and then we are surprised that we have salaries between 5 and 20 thousand kuna depending on the municipality or city, or we happen to have a dwarf municipality with 137 inhabitants who are paid with 6 thousand 600 kuna and a municipality that has more than 12 thousand inhabitants that the head works only with 2 thousand 700 kuna. This immediately indicates that certainly already these criteria given in the law are not best chosen, because we have just defined cities or coefficients from to, then the municipalities coefficients from to, and we know that on the ground we have what I have already said, dwarf cities with thousands and some inhabitants, or municipalities with more than 10,000 inhabitants, means far greater than certain cities. And therefore, to do a graduation based on municipalities-city and based your salary on it is certainly not the only and sufficient criterion. Surely, this criterion should have the basis and original income, certainly and gross social product, not only means the number of inhabitants. It should also be defined how much of these original incomes, i.e. the limit to which the original income for wages can be spent, surely that there could then be more quality of discussion of both the rationalisation and the existence, existence or justification of such a municipality. We said that we were four years late in prescribing basic criteria for determining salaries, or compensation for mayors, mayors, as normal as we are, and by prescribing basic criteria for determining the salaries of officials and subsistence officers. If we're already four years late, I don't see we can't really be a little late. It is that this is a bill in the first reading, that you really are now between the first and second readings taking enough time to make one quality law. Nothing burns that much. I'm saying, if it could wait a little longer, and really not be as I've already pointed out in advance just if it's a municipality, if it's a city, but if it's really another economic indicator. In practice, local and regional self-government units have determined salaries in different ways. We have meanings from collective agreements, it was about decisions of representative bodies, it was about acts of headship, and it was also about the coefficients, or it was about basics for the calculation of salaries. Anyway, I'm saying, everyone did their best, and someone here said, I think it was a colleague, Mršić, it was all by the law. And I agree that it was by law, or very often we can interpret the law in our own way. In fact, I worked in local self-government units there in '97, 2000, when it was a condition for support from the state budget that salaries should not be higher than the salaries that the civil servants had at the time. And as we manage on every occasion, we've been able to manage and at that time, one of the lists was the bill of wages that went to pay, and when it was necessary to prove what wages were made to the state administration, we had one other list and therefore we can say it all again by law, and yet it wasn't by law. So I am now stressing that in this normative little mess, mostly today, the fact is that wages in local self-government units are more than they are in government services, and here I am stressing and stressing again, since it is almost 50% of those local self-government units that in some ways receive funding from the state budget, I think it is really time to regulate it. And the National Minority Club supports the intensities of this law, I say, but we expect that it will be more quality with evaluation and some other criteria, and normally it will be one of the first steps, but certainly not the final step, but we expect that the new ministry will also propose full restructuring of local self-government and administration units, i.e. those who are fiscally unable to survive to disappear, or those who are able to live, to deal with problems that are otherwise given in the domain of local self-government units, that they should be given maximum support, respect for all of those conventions that we have signed at the level of the European Union, or the Council of Europe, and in any case such units have a future. And then for sure, if those existential and economical can justify their perseverance, so great cuts won't need to be made by the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38139	Thank you very much. It's time to report an individual debate. The first for an individual debate was reported by fellow MP Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I see the minister went out for a while, and I hope if he doesn't look at the video that's on the web to hear our remarks on this law. I'm pleased that this law is in the first reading, because I think there's still a lot of work to be done. The intensity can't be that one complex problem called determining, rewarding, paying in local units is solved by taking just one part of the problem. When we talk about salaries under those employees who are employed in local units, we need to know that at this point in time, at the end of last year, there are approximately 66,000. But this law applies to only 13,000, while remaining or budget users, 23 thousand or employed in municipal societies, 29 thousand of them. So we've kind of separated these 66,000 people from 13 grand, and now we're trying to solve a problem called rewarding, paying, or paying these people. And there's going to be a mass of illogicality, and it's just not possible to solve one without another. On the other hand, I am against the fact that many contractual relations, because we know that some cities and municipalities have collective agreements, are dealt with in such a way as to break it by law, that some cities and counties that may have incomes to pay and pay something more, that they are determined that they cannot do so. I don't see what that's all about. I will mention, as I come from Zagreb, an example of the City of Zagreb. This law is absolutely illogical. We're looking at the coefficients that are supposed to be in front of the city of Zagreb, the coefficients that are the coefficients from 2.5 to 3. It's an average, when you take the base, it's a salary of seven and a half to eight thousand kuna. Now take that in the City of Zagreb, which has a budget of 8 billion kuna, there are offices such as the Office of Culture, Sports and Education, which has a budget of 2.2 billion kuna which is much bigger than many of the ministries we have and then the head of such an office should have 7.5 thousand kuna salaries. I don't think that's realistic and that it's not good and that things like that should be corrected in the final draft of the law. Or, on the other hand, consider the example of the Office of Social Care and Health who also has a large budget, but there the head should also have 7.5 to 8 thousand kuna salaries, and on the other hand the director of the home health care or some other institution that is under it will have 11, 12 thousand kuna salaries. So there are great illogicalities that we need to correct by the second reading. On the other hand, to support that I believe that the salaries of civil servants are small, but not because it may be a difficult situation right now and it can't be given anymore. In my opinion, there are too many employees in the state administration and if there were a slightly smaller number of employees, the salaries would be higher. And then when someone effectively organises a job, as I think it is organised in Zagreb and when you look at the pay ratio, the total salary mass in total income, it turns out that in Zagreb, 15% of the total salary mass is lower than in the country, and wages are higher than in the country. And now that someone's organized a job, which can pay such wages, we're going to limit it by this law. I don't think that's fair and it shouldn't be done. For what? In Zagreb, we have a billion and a half kuna for 8 billion kuna income, and in the country we have 24 billion kuna for wages compared to 110 billion kuna income. So if the ratio were to equalize the city and state, the state would even save a billion and 800 million kuna. I don't think that's a good thing, and that's not the way to get in touch with the rights that Zagreb and some other cities have agreed with their employees. On the other hand, I absolutely agree that this may be the easiest thing to open up this issue when we talk about rationalization, the number of cities and municipalities, and I think it's unacceptable for municipalities that don't have enough income to cover even their employees, to have professionals. There are a whole series of municipalities that have 5.6 people employed in the administration, and incomes are not enough to cover maybe one or two people. And the country on the other side is coming. We've had in this year's budget about 2.7 billion kuna, 2.8 billion kuna that we've given as current donations. So that's the money that's given to fund local self-government. I won't mention it now, there were several articles in the paper, but you have a municipality, say, that has 300 thousand kuna incomes, and there are five employees or a municipality that has 240 thousand kunas of original income, six employees. I think it should be the principle of not being allowed, first of all, to not be the chief professional in such a municipality, and on the other hand, that we should not have maybe more than one person doing the jobs that are necessary for the functioning of the municipalities. And finally, I'd like the minister to pay attention to some questions here. When it comes to wages, it is very important to compare responsibilities, work, the amount of work, etc. Here, I will set an example again of the mayor of the City of Zagreb, a city that has its surroundings, well there are nearly 800,000 inhabitants when you look only at its narrow surface and which has 8 billion kuna budgets. His maximum coefficient is predicted here six. Now, when we look at the complexity of this job and the work of the president, let's say, here I am going to take the council board of any one of them in Assembly 6.4. I don't think that's comparable. Or on the other hand, we're looking at the City of Split that has almost a billion kuna budget, and according to the bill, its coefficient is large cities and centers from 3 to 5, theoretically it can be 3. And now compare this job and work, say the government minister without a wallet, without a portfolio that serves as an operative to coordinate the government's work. I think that these things should simply be brought into order and simply to pay attention to how a certain part of the work is valued, and definitely would not be partially singled out by officials and tenants only from those who are in cities, municipalities and counties as budgetary users or in some way try to identify those who work in municipal enterprises. We're going to have a lot of injustices and illogicalities, I don't think that's good. What I was about to say, here's the minister here, so let me point out that, head of the City of Zagreb with a coefficient of 3, 7.5 thousand kuna. I really don't understand who's going to be our headmaster in the City of Zagreb that he's a top professional, with that kind of salary managed by billions of kunas, and I get to say 7.5 thousand kunas, below the average of what's today in a public company like HZ. So the head of the City of Zagreb for Culture, Finance, Health and Social Care should have less than the average salary in the Croatian Railways that we see in how they operate. Of course, it is difficult to compare, here is the President of the City of Zagreb Assembly... I'm sure he'll also point to these illogicalities and in some ways try to fight to get those until the second reading of the I.D. law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38141	Thank you very much. Comrade Hanjek, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38142	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. So since one of our requests after the first meeting is here, I must commend the minister, the first minister who, even before he put the law in the procedure, called on what he could have called for in such a short time and briefly informed us of the intentions and that he was actually the result of going into 2 reading this law. I'm not much of an optimist, but I'm still optimistic because I think we can come from measures that will be regulated. I am a member of the Presidency of the Association of Cities, and I seek as a member of the Presidency to see all the fullness, to express myself this poetically, in a Croatian political local and self-government area. I'm not going to talk about occasions that have led to the formation of municipalities like this or like this, cities like this and like this. We're right where we are. Surely certain criteria and criteria should be established because no matter what for all of us chosen directly now are actually the only criterion of the criteria are our voters. But no democracy is perfect, and there is no perfect control from voters, material and other rights that elected officials have. And surely that the state has certain standards and criteria, certain instruments should have. But I think that with the commendation that the new minister has gone for such a hot bite, that, as a colleague in front of a minority club said, we now have time to go into a serious conversation and sit down and find time for different stakeholders. In fact, the fact is that in Croatia, we in all our analysis or knowledge, but we are aware of that, we have too much public administration. But again when I speak to the public administration, it's now a flossula. We have bodies with public authority, agencies according to European regulations, and here we have moved to convince me, I believe, of the highest quality of people. They have sources of funding, whether from the budget, whether from providing services, but at the same time we brought people to the ministry who were willing to agree to such conditions to have a secure job, but that pay is not exactly God-knows-what. But God knows what work like the Croats say you don't have to pay me so little I can do. And that should be part of the package we're going to have together, because now we're mixing pears and apples. My colleague, Kreso Gulić, here I am now looking at him, not to point him out specifically, but there are examples we have discussed these days. I came here eight years ago, I took down 10% of all my employees' salaries, my 15%, and my 25% down. In 8 years, we didn't raise our salaries, but four years ago we introduced a Christmas card and a K15, and there were only 0.5 a year's wages. Some others did not have other sources, but also state subsidies and the apparatus grew. I know from the centre where cities where there were foundations in a material position, but for political reasons and opposition present here in the Parliament and power, because the mixed situation on the ground has suddenly increased by 30% or 40%, what a colleague from the HNS said. A problem that will especially be highlighted in this situation that, as we have been told, we have acquired rights. And now to be resourceful, I'm going to suggest, if I go through this in my first reading, one reading, that my secretary go to the public fire department because she has a collective contract reduced by 6%, but that's better, that's for me to be the head of finance, to transfer her and hire her to kindergarten because she has a collective contract signed with Mrs. Strugar, to put some employees in city utility companies, and to actually stay just me, and then I'm going to go to the council's salary and one secretary who's going to receive parties and send them from kindergartens to fire departments. I'm a bit of a cartoon right now, but actually, those who don't understand the complexity of the problem that local self-government is in. Neither is the state administration equal and equal to everything in the state administration when many of us seem to know very well, but neither is the local self-government solution that can be cut with the Damak sword. So I welcome the initiative, of course, that I will not vote for this proposal in the first reading, but probably the second reading will go and I call really and I'm making myself available, but I believe the other members of the association of cities and municipalities and professional services to try to find one solution that will not cause an exodus, as a fellow expert. Someone who now has six-and-a-half thousand salary as an engineer, as a reference officer, came with eight from a construction firm, but to get rid of the terrain, we managed to get him to talk, because he'll be back by now between 10 and 12 in a construction company with this experience and getting to know the work in the administration. We'll be left with those who are nowhere else to go... But it still hurts me the most that my four 30-year-old employees, 32-year-old interns, who have a difficult health or family situation, are going to get into a situation to cut their salary by 35 to 40%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It hurts me, and that's what I'm afraid of. For those of us who are mayors, the mayor of municipalities or mayors, we have chosen it, it is our choice, with the sacrifice or with the risk they bear, but these people have not chosen. They're here, they're found, some of them are top-of-the-line, some of them are doing a job, some of them are doing a little bit of good, but let's not cut everyone's heads off more than 170, and then we'll bring in the standards that everybody should look like, because then the head won't get attached to the body. So I'm calling. I know the mood, but at the same time I say that I take the protection of the minister, thank God that we've come to the moment that this issue has started and that we're going seriously into this procedure, not to rush, but also to make it more difficult in Croatian custom, so that for five years we lose to the law, but to try to get to the end of the year with one quality solution for both state and local and regional water-drinking management. Never will everyone be satisfied with him, but who will do less injustice than these exaggerations are now doing in both salaries and officials, as well as in the salaries of officials in individual units of local or regional self-government. Here's a call and I thank you for your initiative, but the invitation to move on together.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38143	All right, then let's move on together. Dear colleague Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I hope that in these seven minutes I will not repeat myself, at least not much compared to the other colleagues. First of all, I would like to warn you of a constitutional basis in the adoption of this law. It is common for the legislator to be called to Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia when it proposes the adoption of laws. But it should not be ignored in this case when Article 4 is done in this law. The constitution that says "in the Republic of Croatia, state authority is set up on the principle of power-sharing in legislative, executive and judicial matters, and is limited by the Constitution of guaranteed rights to local, regional (regional) self-government". This is, in my opinion, the key provision of the Constitution that makes it impossible for anyone, especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as if I were telling the most responsible legislator of one law, to enter into the self-government sphere of local communities. Because this Article 4 speaks in fact about the fact that the three authorities in the Republic of Croatia are limited to one and are limited only to this fourth, and that is local government. And that's why you need to be very careful when going to regulate especially in a new sphere such as wages here, in relation to local communities. Here you question independence in the freedom of availability by means of your means. I have to say, no government or HDZ has ever done this before with a law like this. This is about wages. Because it's one thing to determine in 2001 the ministers of coefficients, the criteria for coefficients, and the other to determine the basics for pay. Because setting a base for wages and indicative coefficients actually determines the pay itself. There's a problem. There is no need to challenge the total conflict between the state and local self-government, because now this is already a step towards the full centralisation of the state. The key problem is a large number of local units and a large number of administrations in those units. As the minister himself said in the Republic of Croatia on average, about 23% of the funds intended to finance local self-government go to staff expenditures. He didn't mention it this time, but you mentioned Mr. Minister on one of the committees that I was on, I'm sure you forgot to say that now, in the European Union it's 9%. So, only 9% is allocated to employees of funds intended for local communities. And there's a key problem I'd say. and we need to see a solution as to how, the criteria to reduce the cost of employees in the Republic of Croatia in local communities. That's our problem, that's our common problem, both the authorities and the opposition. And for that problem, I see that it is possible to solve it through Article 135. The constitution says that "the units of local regional (regional) self-government have the right under the law in their statutes to order internal structure and the activities of their bodies, and to adapt them to their needs and possibilities". I would therefore find a foothold to find a way, so the criteria to reduce administration, at least that's how I feel about the consequences of going to the very end, which I see, which are bad for this concept are legally in that now these differences that I agree are, in part, between local authorities, their bodies and the salaries that the leaders of individual environments have in relation to the heads of state and in the state, that these proportions are irrational and that there are and that they need to be solved. But with this proposal, we're going to come up with new discrepancies where we're going to have a range, Mr. Maras mentioned one example, I can mention one another. Let's say in the City of Zagreb where, for example, One head may be the office of the economy had a salary somewhere of about 7.5 thousand to 8 thousand kuna, as far as I managed to calculate, but therefore one employee would be an example of the driver of the ZET, had a higher salary than the head. Why? Because he is in a company owned by the City of Zagreb, there he works, there he has the right salary. And otherwise, the average salary, I will now immediately inform you in Zagreb Holding 6 thousand 400 kuna per month. So I think that this relationship between the head of an office in such a big city, where it has a total of 8 billion kuna, which is half the budget of all local communities, I don't think that would be good. This would, of course, come to a cast of capable professional staff and these absurdities would be more and more. And at the very end of the Law on Local Self-Government, Mr. Minister says that I think that Article 90 sets out the criteria for determining the salaries of officials, criteria. Now, did we go beyond those criteria when we prescribed and the basics of the employee's salary, but I think we did. That it's not the same. Just because this is the first law reading I warn you about. And in the very end, the law, in my opinion, is ultimately legally controversial. That's what I said at first. He is troublesome to regulate relations that fall within the self-government sphere. Its effectiveness is also questionable because the reasoning of the law is not explicitly stated which savings would be achieved in this way. And as stated in the report of the Committee on Local Self-Government, it is not seen whether the total mass of funds is greater or less after the application of this law. So I hope this law doesn't even appear in the second reading. And that you will give up on him and that will solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38145	Here's the solution, so let me hear further discussion. Representative Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38146	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I join those who feel this law is completely missed. And the way he wanted to be brought was missed. So, it wasn't at all talked to a city association or unions. True, one meeting was organised but the meeting was not a dialogue, but the representatives of cities and counties were simply presented with a new salary account and it was said that... to an extraordinary session of the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Come on move is that this is the first reading so some changes can be made but it would be best if this law were not going into another reading at all but in the next period along with the association of cities, along with the county association, together with the unions to make a whole new law that would adequately solve the pay problems in local self-government units. With the crisis coming into force in finding a way out of the crisis, many suddenly remembered that cities and units of local self-government are actually one of the main reasons for large spending in the public sector, as if such a structure had been since yesterday. And we've known it well since 1993, and we know exactly why it is. This was an example of political volunteerism, which was the only way, the only goal was actually to change Croatia's picture in order to achieve political interests. Therefore, we can freely say that Croatia's territorial structure today is an example of political corruption. So, the goal of such a territorial structure was to conquer political power. Comrade Markovinović, refrain from commenting, you can comment later on by lifting up your replica board and saying what you mean. Therefore, I believe that this proposal, which has come from Mr. Minister Mlakar, is a dangerous intention for the Government to set or reduce wages to local self-government by the proposed Law on the Payments of Officials and Deputys without the necessary analysis. So today it is clear that a large number of units of local self-government have absolutely no reason to exist except for this politically corrupt interest to win power because they simply do not have any fiscal capacity to be able to achieve the function they have based on their own income. Therefore, the first thing that should have been done when it decided to go with this law is to make a full analysis of all 557 units of local self-government, to determine the number of employees, to determine their incomes, to establish the structure of employees, to the necessary qualifications, to the workplaces, and therefore may then go into proposals. It is said that unreal employment in local self-government units is not taken into account in 2001 that a whole series of regulations have been adopted in which units have received new tasks in primary education, health care, social care, fire, the obligation to finance decentralised functions in primary and secondary schools, health care, social care have been taken over by 53 local units, 20 local counties and City of Zagreb, 32 cities necessarily funded by public fire departments by 62 local units. So this is one of the reasons why there has been an increase in the number of employees in local self-government units in the past. And what's very interesting, and the World Bank said there are too many people in the public sector in the Republic of Croatia, so the number between 240 and 260 thousand is unknown, and here is Minister Mlakar who doesn't even know how many people are actually employed in the public administration. But in the past month, the Prime Minister's 17-day term of office employs 40 new people in ministries in the Republic of Croatia. My colleague Cain said every week a rebalancing one. And we at the Prime Minister's every day have a new employee in her ministries. Is that the solution to the recession? Is that a solution to reducing the cost and expenditure of this country? So we heard the examples in Zagreb. I can tell you the examples in the river. So Rijeka is at the level of exactly the European average. The administration makes 10% of the budget, so 9% is some kind of European average, with us slightly less than 10%. We believe that we have a very high-quality administration, and we have proven this by taking over the City Department for Urbanism which has completely solved all the backlogs that were previously present while at the county level. So what happens now? Such a headmaster with a salary of 25 thousand and 500 kuna would fall to the salary of 8 thousand and 400 kuna. So, we don't spend too much, our administration is within 10%, our principals have a salary that corresponds to their abilities and the results of work, our administration is small, efficient and efficient with well-paid people. And with this proposal, Mr. Minister, our headmaster would lose 45% of his salary. Well, I mean, what is it? Is that a flatline? Yeah, it's a socialist cookbook, and I don't think we can agree to that. But let's take one simple referent from 4000, 700 kuna would fall to 3,000, 600. Now, hand him these notes that are also being introduced. What will this man live on? Why? Because that's what Minister Mlakar decided. Therefore, this law is absolutely unacceptable and I believe that in September after a full analysis is carried out, after consulting associations of cities, associations of counties, trade unions must get a completely different law which will take into account large cities, their status, their obligations and what people who are employed in their administrations do. I personally believe that the head of the large cities cannot have less pay than the secretary of state and I suggest that it be dealt with that way. Of course, I absolutely support the proposals that have come from the Association of Cities, which is that the issue of wages in local and regional self-government is limited in a way that is arranged by limiting the share of total expenditure on the salaries of officials, officials and tenants in the total incomes of local authorities without receiving it and that the heights themselves are paid to leave to the units of local self-government. Of course, I must warn that breaking a collective agreement could certainly lead to lawsuits and experience shows that such lawsuits usually go in favour of those who have sued for additional burden on local self-government units because they would have to pay a number of lawsuits that would have been dealt with positively. Therefore, this law neither benefits nor solves any recession in Croatia and creates huge problems for the normal functioning of city administrations and should be completely rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38147	Thank you. A fellow representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38148	Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for coming here to the Parliament to listen to our thoughts on this law because it is in the first reading and I really want to believe that this is not the first time that you will ever come to hear the opinion of Parliamentarians because it is one of the few but in my best practice that ministers listen to us for what we think of a certain law. And I will not direct my criticism in this law to the government or HDZ, but to coalition partners because without their support from this law it would neither be a chance to pass, so I believe that both the Croatian Peasant Party, the Social Liberal Party and the Serbian Democratic Independent Party have largely helped to attack a local and regional self-government in a euphoria. Which, Mr. Minister, I'd like to warn you about. Firstly, the European Charter of Local Self-Government prohibits such behaviour by the central government, as such proposals should not be made without consultation with the local authorities. It also seems to me that the Croatian Constitution is not in favour of this way of solving the problem, especially because collective agreements exist and the suspension of collective agreements by these laws would really not do a good job. I will make my proposals, and if such a law passes, you will truly unconsciously give the right to those who speak exclusively out of ignorance to the local administration. I know that you know that the term local administration is equal to the term wooden iron, because if it's government then it's state-owned, if it's self-government, then it's local. So we can only talk about local and regional self-government. And I object to all the loudspeakers in Croatia who have one day sworn in local self-government, and the other day they would have abolished 200 or 400 municipalities in Croatia. I believe that citizens of this country should be offered a model, a new model of municipal arrangement that we give them on the referendum, and then citizens should choose and decide whether this number of municipalities and cities is really too large, too small, optimal or any other. The problem with wages in local and regional self-government exists objectively, but without this bill, the government could have solved the problem. For example, the budget law lays down criteria and formulas under which the conditions of a municipality, city or county have the right to the resources of the state budget. There are also regional development funds where there are certain criteria, but it is interesting that none of those rules that I have now thought of is an integral element, an item of expenditure for employees in relation to the budget of the same unit or, say, the amount per capita. And if the state really wanted it, the government could have introduced those criteria 4,5 6, 8, 10, 12 years ago. It is precisely because of preventing some municipalities from spending on employees to allocate 60% of their budget, and then tomorrow the state asks for money to function regularly. So I strongly advocate the existence and full autonomy of local and regional self-government, but it is true that some leaders have gone too far with their salaries, as well as the salaries of their employees. And whether the state has mechanisms and data based on which it can establish valid criteria and withdraw the border and say which is in the criteria and which is not. Mr. Minister, I have the information for 2007 from the State Audit Office, according to which the entire local and regional self-government, so all municipalities, all cities and all counties, have been allocated 3 billion kuna to employees. Someone talked about 14 billion today, someone's gonna talk about 24 billion tomorrow, that's fake data. So 3 billion 700. In the last year, it couldn't have been more than about 4 billion. On average, without the City of Zagreb, the expenditure for employees was 15.1%, in the City of Zagreb 18.1% compared to the total budget. If the average of Croatia is 15.1%, all who are above it will either reduce the expenditure on employees or will not be entitled to state aid and intervention. But within that 15.1%, there are some that are far below that percentage and some that are far beyond that. So, for example, in Međimurje County, the municipalities, cities and counties, so we talk about local and regional self-government, out of their budget for employees only 11.2% or if we recalculate it per capita, and I remind you that the state administration per capita costs 5,000 kuna per year, i.e. that the state allocates 20% of its budget, per capita in Međimurje is enough annually 339 kuna to finance the entire local and regional self-government. On the other hand, 18.1% and 1642 kunas stand out for this in Zagreb. No one can convince me that there is such a difference in the good organisation and quality of local self-government that such large differences would be in the amount of funds to be allocated to employees. In Zagreb County, the percentage is 13.5, Krapinskoga 11.3, Varazdinskoga 12.6, Vukovarska 13.6. For example, I took three, four that are below average. Above the average are Zagreb with 18.1, Sisačko-moslavačka with 18.4, Ličko-senjska with 17.6, Dubrovačko-neretvantska 16,8 or if you want per capita the most rational are Međimurska with 339, Varazdinska with 451 kuna, Osijek with 514. And the most destructive are again the City of Zagreb for 1642, and then we have Primorje-goranska 1144, Istria 1200, Dubrovnik 1089. I don't understand, I can't understand the number of employees or the level of separation that's so different from local and regional self-government. And with this approach, as you propose by this law, we're all trying to bring down the average of the same poverty which is not good. Those who have been thrifty so far, who have singled out the minimum percentages for staff expenditure, whether compared to the budget, or per capita, must not continue to press against what we have so far. It's not just. They've been rational so far, so let's reward them. I agree that the issue of the mayor's salary, deputy mayor, deputy chief and deputy is good that the law limits, limits and against it even most of them do not exist. But with regard to expert staff in local and regional self-government, we must give the right to these directly elected leaders to limit total consumption compared to the budget and per capita's head freely. All this data, therefore, relative to the total budget and per capita for employees as an item of expenditure for employees, I can give them to you because they are indeed official data and you will see that only by applying them in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, in the Law on Regional Development, or the criteria of the law, as well as in the laws and regulations governing the right to the state grant of local self-government. We solve all these problems, and on the other hand, the rational ones so far, the thrift and the honest ones, we allow them to function further, they have the same pay ratio without this restriction, and by the calculation I've seen, although I've done it quickly, in some environments there would be a reduction in wages by even 36%. For this reason, I believe that until the second reading or the law is reached, or that you suggest to the Government that we turn these restrictions and the desire to save into other regulations on the basis of the information available to official sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38149	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of the distinguished colleague Biserka Vranic. Here you go, pals. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. But that's why my colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović is here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. All right, we all agree, and it is well known that local self-government is no derivative of state power, but in modern and developed democracies that have been fostering and developing it for hundreds of years is considered the 4th branch of government. It's still... He said the power of the free nations lies in the local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what right do I ask the state now that it has spent its own money wanting to seize in an indirect way into money belonging to the local community without fulfilling its basic constitutional task of helping other than Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and their own citizens in certain units of local self-government? It's worrying that there's already been a major set of unconstitutional laws created lately. It would be sad to have Mr. Minister's first proposal to defend you here as Resolute Minister in the Croatian Parliament just like that. In these six years, nine laws were collected by the SDP club to the Constitutional Court. Some of the Constitutional Court respected, abolished, gave us the right to MPs and abolished such laws. Some are still waiting, and some have lost all meaning over time, the tract of temporas. So the question is, what's going to happen to a law like this? So instead of the government being as careful as this has often started happening to her lately, she continues with the same habit of sending unconstitutional laws to the Assembly. The provision of Article 137 has already been cited several times here. The constitution, and as it seems, needs to be repeated over and over again because we have sworn to the Constitution here, but someone is enough to swear to his party leadership and it doesn't matter what is written in the Constitution and then mechanically raise their hands, instead of practicing in the morning at home, then here the exercise and the hand rises up for unconstitutional solutions, regardless of who such and such things can't pass regardless of party membership. The provision of Article 137 makes it quite clear that units of local and regional (regional) self-government have the right to own income free of charge in the performance of their own business. When we passed the Law on Local Self-Government and it was then said that wages would be regulated by a special law. By then, this announcement in that law caused a lot of controversy on the one hand and on the other hand, almost all MPs were unanimous that this could not be the subject of such a legal solution and gave up. It's been a long time, and it's been a long time since this law of this nature was passed because the government didn't simply dare pass such a law. But now that money needs to be raised, even if it's against the constitution, it's more of a crisis to look anywhere, to move the money, to show that there's a lot of concern for the citizens that there is, there's expensive and local self-government that she chose. It wasn't elected by the state, it wasn't chosen by the government. I'm sure it would have looked different if the government had chosen. So, what's going on? First, a media warrant is sent and an impression is created and something that is already known to everyone that we have too many units of local self-government. And who's saying that please? Those who created those units of local self-government, who supported and proposed such legal proposals and gave the green light. And now they wonder how many units of local self-government we have. So they did not reproduce with partenogenesis. The government is the father of these units of local self-government and cannot escape that responsibility and fatherhood. And she's responsible for it. And now it's a miracle that it's like it's some kind of self-involved creation and creation. And the truth is, there are too many units of local self-government, but that's no excuse to react in this way. It is no excuse at all, nor is it a place to talk about wages when talking about whether there is a particular unit of local self-government or not in a particular area. Austria, which is about a surface similar to Croatia, has several, several times, I mean 4 times smaller units of local self-government, but the number of units of local self-government, whether more or less, is not a guarantee of local self-government development, there are more and more of them somewhere, and there are usually a lot less. And we can really agree that there are too many, that many are their own purpose. That's still a fact. But in this way, he can't react. The truth is that in one village, in one town, there was a municipality chief who had a higher salary than the minister and knew nothing. The justice ministry was obliged to, as he thought, give him free legal advice, because he did not want to share his salary in order to hire an expert, but provided everything to himself and it was the only cost, the pay of the commissioner, had no money for calls, had a literal deadline in which he invited locals to some meetings. One pitch and everybody's happy. The laws he's not that they're advertised in the People's Newspaper. He actually heard it, but he thought it was being sold at the newsstand, and he said there's no such thing as "The People's Newspaper," that he went to the movies and he didn't have any. So, we have these bizarre situations, but we can't inspect and infiltrate local self-government in this way what he was talking about on behalf of Mršić's club. So what does this law, that is, the intention of the law, suggestor speak? That citizens are basically subjects and they don't recognize that local government. And that's the most dangerous thing. Instead of developing and developing a civic self-awareness that can best be developed through units of local self-government, respecting and fostering that power, and sanctioning it when it works against the law and against citizens' interests. And you see that state has proved very weak and inefficient. We have a colleague, Palaric, who was punished, so he got a pass to the Constitutional Court. You see, and here in these situations, so when it was supposed to react, it didn't react, and then when it didn't have to react, it reacted. The way it was adopted, or suggests a procedure for proposing this law, also concerns. They also said something about it. So the union warned you, all MPs received an opinion, i.e. objections from the unions of state and local officials and subsistences, as this procedure took place. That they didn't even have a final proposal, just a draft. That's what the minister told them about. Similarly contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Government of Article 27(5), there was no opinion of professional associations and associations in their preparation for the adoption of such a proposal and of which the questions proposed by these proposals were included in their work. So instead of developing local self-government on the trail of the European Convention on Local Self-Government, not only, but in the report on social dialogue in local and regional self-government since April of this year, although it explicitly states that in all 27 EU countries, there are negotiations on salaries and working conditions, which means that such legal arrangements of collective bargaining in local self-government units and the Republic of Croatia are excluded from the circle in which the highest democratic standards in collective bargaining apply. We need to know and take care of the uniqueness of our legal system. One law can't solve one law, another law can't. The collective agreement is also a law among the parties and no one can by any law deny the collective agreement, because the contract of God is somewhat less important. What kind of message would the government send? Yeah, contractual obligations are long ago just a dead letter on paper. Well, that's no wonder, because the government doesn't carry out its contractual obligations to suppliers, according to the contractors. And on the other hand, he doesn't care much about his own.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38151	Thank you, colleague. Bring the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38152	Obligations to collect them. It would therefore be good for the applicant to withdraw this proposal, i.e. at least serve as a proposal for a preliminary debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38153	Thank you very much. Josip Salapic, next in line for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Payments in local and regional (regional) self-government. First of all, this law, i.e. the bill, should be seen as the intention of proposing the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finally introduce order into the forest of riots in the regulations that so far existed in the units of the regional (regional) self-government. In particular, it is inadmissible that in certain units local self-government regulations are adopted unilaterally on the basis of decisions by former members of chief offices or in some cases units and representative bodies of municipal councils, city councils or county councils that these salaries differ from the salaries of other officials. First of all, it means high-ranking state officials, ministers, parliamentary deputies, but we can enter the sector of wages and doctors, university professors, employees of the State's Attorney's Office, lawyers and so forth. It's about time in these difficult times that hit our country, that people realize that it's time for these salaries to be equal, consistent with employees' salaries in public and state services. First of all, it is also a way and a measure of solidarity between those people who do the same or similar jobs in their workplaces, and maybe 200 or 300 meters of buildings or in the same building for the same job some get up to 36, we heard, as a higher salary. This should first of all be considered a punishment for those who have so far been employed in the services of local self-government, but above all, and perhaps also for those who are truly in the larger, primarily, cities professionally, consciously doing their jobs to find another reward model for those who do indeed do this job. In those smaller units of local self-government often citizens, including voters who trust the same people who work in municipalities and cities see what salaries are, commenting with smaller units, and often one certificate or permit or a solution must go 30km further to get what they should get in their municipality or g work. This is primarily the problem of what colleagues today have spoken about and a large number of local self-government units more than 576 and I think it is high time and our Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor, has announced that this will also begin to discuss and that in that part of the savings that will clearly show that this government is ready to go into all the spheres in which it should go, to save our country and our citizens and to see that our government takes care of all parts and areas in the Republic of Croatia. The austerity measures in these conditions of recession are very necessary, and this is primarily a clear message to all our citizens in municipalities, cities and counties that the time has come and that we realize that we are at a crisis moment that everyone who does the same or similar work should be paid equally. That is why it is important for this harmonisation and therefore I support this law, of course these certain details we have heard today, we can correct or improve in this second reading, is not the same City of Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split and some smaller cities where this and the scope of the job is much smaller. Nomotechnically speaking, this law is clear and concise. In some parts, some minor changes should be made, but above all, I would like to say that this bill is above the solidarity of people working in public services with those working in units of local, regional and regional self-government and that it is time for us all to realize that now is the key time for this law to introduce order in the areas of the unit of local administration and self-government. I do not consider it a punishment, I do not consider it a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I do not consider it a violation of the European Charter, but I only consider it a moment and a time in which we live, awareness and accountability, because we all need to be aware if we save on the state budget, if the units of local administrations and self-government depend on the donations of the state budget, if the projects are important, if the material expenditures in these municipalities, cities and counties are to be made available from the state budget, if our government has shown clear measures that from 10.7 billion kuna has passed on to 9.3 billion kuna in savings this year, that in preparations for the next budget for 2010 it is clearly kept where everything will be saved, that we must understand the time in which we live I do not think we should be able to object and that we are finally to do order and in this administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38155	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of distinguished colleagues of Mirala Holly. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38156	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate on the Law of Payments proposal in local and regional self-government, I would like to say that I will not support this bill for a whole series of reasons. First of all, this bill is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because the Constitution in Article 137 quotes "The units of local and regional, or regional self-government, have the right to their own incomes which they freely have in doing business in their own part." And it is evident from this bill that units of local and regional self-government do not have the right to freely dispose of their own income. It is unnecessary to say that this bill completely disregards the constitutional principle of subsidiarity, and precisely because of the violation of the principle of subsidiarity, this proposal of the law is contrary to the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. I, too, have been addressed by most of you representatives and representatives of the unions of state and local officials and deputies of the Republic of Croatia who are bitter because of the way this bill entered the parliamentary procedure and the content of this bill. In the process of drafting this bill, not the consulted representatives of this I would say to the resolute union, which is a very dangerous way of neglecting the civilization's democratic standards, standards that involve the inclusion of representatives of social partners and associations in the working groups for the adoption of laws. Given that this was not done at this time, the union was unable to show itself to this very important bill for them. I will therefore mention several other key remarks by this union, which brings together more than 4,000 members and members, which government representatives should seriously consider. I would stress that this bill is contrary to the conclusions of the GSV of 30 June 2008 in line with the need for equalising the salaries of public administration employees, but in a way that the government's wage harmonisation process, I stress here that the differentiated growth will end at the precise dynamics of several years, and with the aim of not falling to any pay officer, the coordination will be done gradually. The current bill is contrary to this conclusion because the consequences of this law will be between 30 and 50% lower salaries to a large number of officials and officials in the City of Zagreb administration. Unfortunately, this proposal for an anomaly in the public administration pay system is addressed in a way that causes new injustices and officials and officials to be equalised in poverty. I absolutely agree with the union's claims that higher salaries in certain units of local self-government are a reflection of fiscal capacities and human resources, not just the political decision of local authorities. Higher salaries resulting from higher basics than civil servants can be based not only on the level of local self-government units’ own incomes, but also on whether such a unit has a small, professional, efficient and well-paid administration. This bill also virtually suspends the possibility of collective bargaining, and thus the legal functioning of the unions. In particular, the legal provision under which the basis of the payment in units of local and regional self-government applies is the basis for the calculation of the salaries of civil servants and officials and subsistence staff and subsistence staff, preventing collective bargaining of wages between trade unions and employers at local level. This excludes the provisions of the Law on civil servants and tenants which establish that the basis for the calculation of salaries is determined by a collective contract, as well as all provisions of collective agreements and agreements between employers and trade unions in local self-government units and units of regional self-government. Despite the European oath of this Government, this bill is contrary to the report on social dialogue in local and regional self-government developed by the European Federation of Civil Service Unions and the Council of European municipalities and regions in April this year, as well as by counterpart Ingrid, which states that all 27 European Union countries are negotiating salaries and working conditions. This proposal signifies that such a legislative arrangement of collective bargaining in local and regional self-government units excludes Croatia from a circle of countries where the highest democratic standards in collective bargaining apply. The main argument for the adoption of this law by the ruling is the savings of state budget funds intended to finance material expenditure, a large number of units of local self-government and units of regional self-government. And it is a fact that HDZ, by encouraging the explosion of the number of units of local self-government, is especially those who are unable to finance their own needs, thus neither the government's salary nor the current absolutely unsustainable state. But not only does sound logic but the question of elementary justice require that this problem be resolved in a completely different way. The most effective way to reduce the number of units of local self-government is to cut their donations for salaries and administration from the state register. If there is a real desire and a need for the existence of such units which are not financially capacitated to survive independently without the help of the central cashier. All right. Let them exist. But those who do administrative work in such units will have to volunteer. I believe that in this way, a very simple solution would be made to the problem of huge expenditure on administration in local self-government units. But, of course, the state will not reach for such a solution because it would thus endanger the interests of its customers in the units of local self-government of those who have been sucking on a state manger for years and in return to their citizens and citizens do not provide any service. Of course, for HDZ it is a much better solution to work on the systematic destruction of healthy and prosperous parts of society, to restrict their Constitution and law-guaranteed rights, to abolish the principle of subsidiarity and to introduce the worst possible variant of the Stalinist Governor in the trap of Croatia's system. So much for the HDZ definition of decentralisation of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38157	Thank you very much. Followed by another debate by counterpart Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38158	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law has been drawn up without taking into account and without appeal to the provisions of Chapter VI. Local, local, regional self-government is directly contrary to Article 137(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Units of local and regional (regional) self-government shall have the right to own income free of charge in the performance of their own business. Then, contrary to Article 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia units of local and regional (regional) self-government shall have the right, within the framework of the laws, to determine on their own the internal structure and part-round of their bodies and to adapt them to local needs and possibilities. We wonder, or many wonder, in local self - administration whether young people will leave the ministry. If, for example, the city administration, as we have cases, is teamed up with young and professional people who can do the most complex jobs that would actually be more like a private company than a local self-government unit. In this way, it would be a huge disproportionate between, for example, city officials and private firms if they met on the same project or when a city official represented in court in relation to the salary of a private lawyer. Therefore, it could be proposed that in the units of local self-government operating with loss, which cannot survive without State aid and which should be abolished, pay and remuneration should be equalised with civil servants and tenants. The units of local and regional regional self-government which can do so within their ability to determine exactly how the Constitution set out in Article 135 shall continue to freely dispose of their incomes as governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 137(1) and ensure that professional people do so for them. We wonder if this law promotes corruption. That's unfortunately very possible. Therefore, we cannot say that this is an anti-recession law, nor anti-corruption under all of this. Then, this bill will reduce the revenue from the cuts and taxes on the addition of the budget of local self-government, which is not mentioned anywhere in the context of the bill's proposal. For example, in Dubrovnik, wages may fall by 45% if we look at the reduction in base because we have already reduced it, the reduction in coefficient, the crisis tax that we mentioned today, the increase in VAT that will be tomorrow. Did we see that? This measure would cover about a thousand and a half employees and employees in institutions in culture, kindergartens and public institutions, enterprises owned by the majority of the city of Dubrovnik. We can't say that these are people who live in luxury, they've taken over their obligations, they've taken over the loans. Therefore, I suggest a gradual wage reduction again. The city of Dubrovnik has already reduced the pay base by 10% and we have agreed with the unions. And not only for local employees and tenants, but also for employees in all city institutions and public enterprises, and for this year, no salary hikes were made by 6%. At the state level, the government cannot agree to cut wages by 6%. So the law did not respect the specificities of local units. If we're going to talk about standard and expensive, we know that Dubrovnik is the most expensive city in Croatia after almost all research. This burden has been carried by its citizens for years but they also expect to pay their living expenses from their work. This bill does not allow them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38159	Thank you. It's time for the esteemed colleague Dino Kozlevac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38160	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. We heard before the minister said that 50% of local self-government units can't finance their basic functions from their original incomes, and there's a problem. There is a problem with the size or number of municipalities and cities and counties. This problem is expressed not only in the fiscal capacity of local self-government units but also in the humane view, meaning the possibility of organising business and other problems that these units of local self-government meet and, unfortunately, or their happiness depends on the central government, or on the assistance of central authorities, so that they can function on various others if they are given grants or individual opportunities and the sale of real estate in their possession. Normally, it's one-time income, and then they're gone. And there's a basic problem. The main problem is in the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, I guess we all agree both the professional and political public that something should be done. Here we are today in the Parliament and on the side of the position and opposition we have heard that we are going to have to do something about it. We probably won't have to invent the hot water that should be done because Europe and the world around us have done it and they have done it in a way that has set the criteria for how to set the level of organisation, the level of responsibility, the level of ability to carry out certain tasks. There are various meanings of the classification of units of local self-government. Here, I have a chance to see from neighbouring Italy and other countries how they handled it. Every municipality, every city, means county but primarily municipalities and cities are not in the same level of responsibility or organisation in the ability to do jobs. One unit of local self-government with several hundred inhabitants cannot be in a position to carry out the same administrative work as the city does. Is it a big city, a small town. Therefore, there is a space where it will need to be done and this is a fundamental problem in the functioning of local self-government units. To set criteria, we agree, to set criteria of the level of responsibility and to set criteria that can and may, possibly by law, can be determined, which is a quantity of money, a budget that can be allocated to the functioning of the administration or for the functioning of the administration, I would say administrations in local self-government units. The state is effective, and so is the unit of local self-government, as capable officials or authorities are elected in the elections, but also a very large role, I will not quantify, there is an administration. The more quality management, local self-government, regional self-government, it's a more quality unit of local self-government, it's more of a citizen function. When I talk about the function of citizens, I mean the whole conukture, the economy, the development moment that we really need. Also, state and state administration is one of the most important segments in the functioning of the state. We have a problem with having a state administration, and we all agreed, we read these days, but we can't get into this business, I hope that the situation will force us to start reforming the state administration, because the reform of the state administration has to create a quality, efficient, smaller state administration and thus open up space for people who are doing their job in the state administration to do their job fairly today and not to get adequate pay for their work. We are witnesses and there is a basic problem and a fundamental reason why people in the state administration are being paid off. Not only are people who work directly in the state administration, but all people who are connected to the state administration by their status are underpaid today. I don't think there's any need to indicate what kind of pay is in the state administration today. Addressing this problem, which is present in a way that nivells administration, i.e. the administration of local self-government units, is a completely wrong approach. He's going to lead to an orderly, he's going to lead to, someone said today, poverty then both of us, and that's not the way to it. We are witnessing here, it is said today that the state is decentralised, decentralised of certain powers, but not only in the administrative sense, but also in a functional sense. She entrusted jobs to local self-government units and moved or moved a number of people working at the state administration. We are here to witness the reason of the government's representative, the minister said that among other things is the problem of stimulating the payment of people in the wage system that are in the state administration today. The local self-government unit, a large part of the job, means that they are decentralised, they are cared for, and I guess we all agreed to the opposition's independent opposition that today these jobs, the organisation of these businesses that are decentralised, are better organised at these levels. Among other things, it was also made possible by pay policy. You today take from one supervisor, a graduate engineer for example construction with several professional exams, experience, etc., who is responsible for issuing building permits, I ask you how he can work today with 6 and 7, 7 and a half thousand kuna in the public sector. Maybe even today, because we're in a crisis, at a crisis moment. But I'm asking you one tomorrow or yesterday and the day before yesterday when there was a better situation between the public and the private sector, there are large fluctuations of government employees. Whoever was a quality fit, i.e. whoever had adequate equipment, was asked to come work in the private sector. Practically state administration, administration, officials, tenants, I will not say one word, with all due respect to the many hardworking people who have opted for work in the state administration, but in one part it was a passing road stop exactly among other things and many times motivated by the status to the private sector. Therefore, all countries in the environment have rewarded and rewarded and paid for the state administration. When I speak to the state administration, I must say from police officers, soldiers, officials and all those who work in that system. Local self-government units have their own autonomy. We respect the European Charter, we have the Constitution and units of local self-government operating on the principle of subsidiarity. The administration shall, in direct function, in accordance with the legal rules, be governed by the direct function of performing its tasks. And we have officials today who are directly elected to the elections, who have won the citizens' mandate for the first time, so direct elections and they are responsible for the functioning of local self-government units. All that we can solve, and we can solve the level of organisation or competence of administrative powers, we can determine how much money from a certain budget can be spent on the salaries of the administration, we can determine certain frameworks, but all that we can determine we must do in close cooperation with municipalities and cities, with the association of municipalities, cities and countys and with trade unions. Not at all, and the simulations that were done in cities and municipalities here and with colleagues and on the one hand and on the other side of the assembly we talked about would lead to and somewhere drastic wage cuts in percentages, not in amounts even but in percentages, in this situation wrong. I hope that this law will not have to be hurried on it, in this form there is no need for the proposal to come but to talk to all interested partners and come to a quality solution, but first and foremost, the territorial structure needs to be redecorated. When I say that, I don't mean abolishing municipalities and cities. There are various organisational forms of joint administrative work for several units of local self-government, there are possibilities of competence of certain cities and municipalities for a particular area, so we have space. We have good examples of how it works around us in the environment. Solidarity that, however, solidarity must not be at the expense of the quality of the performance of jobs and the status of employees, and in particular that one mentions the status of civil servants, the tenants they have today, where people are also being paid. They're underpaid because we need to reform the state administration and we're going to get room for...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38161	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38162	Greater, better quality and better pay and more satisfied management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38163	Thanks, buddy. It's time for the esteemed colleague Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38164	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I might as well turn my discussion around, maybe different from the others. Everyone here is invited that we should eliminate a lot of municipalities, that there are too many, that there's too much administration, that it's a huge cost etc. I'll tell you from my experience, here I am, 15 years head of the municipality. My municipality, before its status, was part of the City of Zagreb since '93. to 95. Here, in those two years since we were in the City of Zagreb, we've been there somewhere behind the hill. We had snow, there was rain, these in Zagreb didn't even know what was going on here on Bistra. We got the status of the municipality and from that moment on, my Bistra started to develop, and not only my Bistra, but I think a lot of the municipalities that got that status and the cities because I have to warn you that I think we're aware because we're on the ground and we're acting these duties that many today, if they didn't have the status of the municipality today, some would have no kindergartens, no sewers, no water, no public lighting, no gas, they couldn't withdraw funds from pre-accession funds and a lot of things they couldn't have had the status of local self-government, i.e. The municipalities. There may be some, for sure, some who are not justified, some municipalities with a small population cannot be financed and it is certain to think that such municipalities are attached to larger municipalities, but they are a small number. There's always talk about some big amounts, a lot of people. I have information that there are 11,000 people employed in municipalities and cities in total. It's about 60 or 70 grand. Yes, there is. They're budgetary users, they're kindergartens and public fire departments, and there's not even our utility and library companies, and I don't list everything, museums, everything that's under the authority and that's the founder of the city or the municipalities. So I'm saying, I don't think there's too much to attack. I personally support that here, starting with this proposal to regulate wages to units of local self-government specifically related to Article 4 which says that really mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors should be able to regulate their salaries by this law because there are really some counties where mayors or mayors have a salary of 40 thousand kuna, some cities have or municipalities even pay 25 or I don't know, 27 thousand kuna. I don't think that's right, and I think we should regulate that these wages are in some normal frames that they're in today. When we talk about employees i.e. I have to say that, at least I speak from experience, that my employees, maybe one employee does 3 jobs, so I have a very particular employee who works and works in public procurement and writes decisions and conclusions and conducts competitions and contracts, and now she should be given a salary of 3 800 kuna under this new bill. I can't give it to her. I think we should leave the possibility that we should continue to regulate our salaries because we can do the following. We can say that we will hire new 2, 3 employees in these jobs so that in particular one will work on contracts, especially one in public procurement, and especially one in conclusions and decisions, and then we will give them all 3 800 salaries, and I think that way we will have to increase the number of employees in our municipalities, so we will increase the material costs, so for these employees, we will have to provide a lot more space, and then that means everything that I say is so that I don't think it's good for me. I'm also going to give one comparison, my municipality has cca 7.5 thousand residents, so I think my employee who does these jobs has a lot more work to do than she is in a municipality of 1,500 residents and now we're going to have the same salary that has jobs maybe two hours a day or mine that has really, I don't know, 10 hours a day. I think that's something to worry about. We should also take care of myself, it's my suggestion and suggestions to the minister, we must not forget our employees in municipalities that have been working for 30 years in local self-government, especially when we've separated from those large municipalities, we've had to take over the number of employees from those large municipalities, so we've taken, most of them are people with high school, most of them are women who have great experience, great knowledge, who, together with us, created these first budgets and wrote them, and now it's happening, and there's high school, that I have to pay three thousand and I don't know, some kuna, and her colleague with high, with little experience, she can't do it, she'll have a salary, I don't know five thousand kuna. I suggest that we take care that our employees who have their jobs do what they say in their little finger, who are our right hand not to degrade them with this law now, with this proposal in coefficients because it would be wrong for someone after 30 years of internship to end up with here, this average and the coefficient as proposed here. I'll say, here's my example again, my municipality's employees cost 5.13%. So the municipality of 7.5 thousand inhabitants has their own cemetery and plumbing and the utility and library, so now I don't count, 5.13%. My salary doesn't have any secrets, my citizens know that my salary is nine thousand kunas, and I'm surprised that some of them pay 25, 30 thousand kuna that they haven't already replaced them if they have such wages. My citizens know how much their chief has to pay. They also know how many employees in the municipality pay and when your bu colleague Lesar calculated how much it costs per capita, I calculated 185 kuna per capita per year means it stands out for the employee. 185 kuna. So it costs every citizen an individual for the employees. That's the average. I have a good experience from a year ago when it was decided to arrange for construction to be transferred from the state administration to the county and larger cities. Well, that's why it's done so that we can raise wages because we know that the salaries in the state services are low, that that's why our quality and professional staff ran to bigger salaries. I think that was a good decision. Here, now these offices are in the county and in the larger cities and I can tell you that they're much more efficient, that these people's salaries have increased, that we're calling a competition, we're getting people because the wages are much bigger and we're solving these problems. And we have also provided sources of funding for our local self-government units because we have a much better collection of municipal contributions and everything that goes into issuing these permits, and not only for building family homes, I don't know or business facilities, but also for our infrastructures, sewers, water, no access, for everything you have to have a building permit, if you can't, if you don't have services to do it in the short term, and you have funds secured. My proposal is to limit the pay in this way, to limit the original income of local self-government units, means that the original income, not counting on grants and support within the state, but counting on the original revenues to be 8% for municipalities, for cities 12%, and for counties and larger cities and county headquarters to be 15%. I did that analysis by talking to some colleagues. Here I'm saying 5 and 13 I'm covering, so 8, I still have almost 2.3% of the reserve. It means there's no reason that some others can't cover themselves with that percentage and that they shouldn't then go to a limit on the coefficients and pay heights. Because we can solve how I said earlier in this way that we're going to hire a lot more people now, because they won't be stimulated to work for a small salary, and then we're going to increase all the other expenses, but that's exactly how both the mayors and the mayors are stimulated, so they're going to make an effort to collect all those revenues that the law has prescribed for them, the communal fee, so they're going to have their original incomes higher, so they're going to be able to... increase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38165	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38166	Here, so much in my discussion. I support and hope that certain remarks and suggestions for the benefit and municipalities, cities, as well as the state will be accepted by the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38167	Thank you. Davor Bernardic is next in charge of the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38168	Thank you, Vice President. So when we talk about this law, I'll try to resonate three things I think you should say here. The first is that from the opening letter in the budget rebalancing of Prime Minister Kosor herself, we have received the announcement that there is a need to make thorough cuts in the local self-government system and the announcement that the municipality and cities are too much and that rationalization should be considered. One example of this rationalisation is this one, but the way the proposal is made, the way it comes without this systematic debate announced for September is not good. So if it goes into rationalization it needs to be systematic, it needs to be justified, it needs to have a foothold, not only about wages, but in full reorganisation. When something is made, it is nice and it would be desirable to take it as it belongs to the head and tail, meaning that we do not hurry with one decision, and eventually we will have to change it later. That's the first thing I think you should lift. The other thing is that it is also seen from the debates of colleagues who discussed before me, that many mayors and mayors share different opinions on this and what should also be underlined here that a year ago we accepted other points related to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, meaning for all the important things that these charters must consult when it comes to laws concerning local self-government itself. This is one of those laws. However, he was not consulted, i.e. They're consulting local self-government units, and that's why bringing something that's contrary to that law and that charter we took ourselves on haste is not good again. A few hours ago, we finished discussing a special income tax and pension tax. After this, there will be a debate on the increase in value added tax. What I have to say is what I said at that time is that these taxes will actually speed up this recession path, i.e. in the short term, the effects in the state budget are created, but the added value itself will not grow, since it does not increase added value, there will be a contraction of the same taxes and we are actually spinning in a vicious circle and that is actually one way in, which would be said, in the contraction of that tax mass. However, what has to be said about changing these laws, and it is in style with this law that is now coming to the benches, and that is that the law on increasing value added tax as well as this charge, which is called a crisis charge, has been introduced since 1 August, with the fact that Article 8 of that law says that the ministry will, in 30 days, make by 1 September, how the tax is calculated, that all entities will pay the tax themselves. So that's something that goes from 1.8, and it certainly won't be defined until 1.9, and that's what would be said in a hurry, and that's what lacks a systematic approach, and that's how we can make laws, but once again I repeat that it's not good, and that's actually leading us back, and that's very likely to prove it. And the third reason I think is very important, and perhaps the most important of all the reasons why not to this law, that is, this bill in a hurry. If it's someone to put order into pay in local self-government units, it's definitely me. In the morning when I spoke yesterday about the salaries of the budget rebalancing and it is unacceptable that in certain public enterprises a bunch of directors of various different officials who are headed by these certain executive functions have double, 3 times, 4, 5, 6, 7 times the salaries of the public representatives, and the parliamentary representatives are always on the blow of the public, the first constantly belittled, and then I also think that individual municipal chiefs, in particular the smaller municipalities whose budgets, are rarely enough to cover the elemental current obligations, but rely on grants of the state budget and have salaries, high wages, and that they are actually the purpose and that in these municipalities they can't actually do anything, because their assets there are simply not enough to make any donations from the state. And that's one reason that's definitely why order needs to be introduced. But what's in the banking sector is the status of an acceptable debtor with a secure credit rating, it's definitely the one who works in local self-government and state administration units. And that's where I want to actually draw the line. You today have 20 thousand newly built properties in Croatia that cannot be sold, which stand, the builders who have invested in them, some have time to wait because they worked with cash, others on the other hand have to service bank loans and have no time to wait, and 20 thousand real estate is definitely not something that gives optimism that will be sold very soon. In addition, if we add that the level of investment in Croatia and foreign investment has fallen, then this year it gives a very clear message. Now, if we cut 30, 40% of the salary in local self-government units. I assure you that on the market because of the inability, so people who are simple for the naked belly after bread, for the naked existence will raise housing loans, find if they are not achieved, and I haven't heard anything about it, the social agreement between the government and the representatives of the banks, means about some corporate bank policies for at least 3.4 years while paying in local self-government units in some kind of normal growth. So if we don't reach that deal on the market, we're going to find a ten thousand real estate, and we're going to have a situation like in the U.S. in '29, '33. when the Rockefellers got rich because they had cash and bought real estate that went for nothing. Because if you have 20,000 properties on one side that can't be sold, if you suddenly have 10 or 15 thousand properties that are on the market because people can't service their current obligations and forced to sell, we have one... effect in construction that's counter-surgery that's not good. And that's something that will happen if this law breaks over its knee like this. Of course it's good to go in two readings, I believe there will be repairs of a certain law until the second reading. What you have to say and especially underline is that you need to introduce order, you need to introduce restrictions, that's definitely. However, it needs to be let go faster to develop faster and slower ones to follow the better example in some ways. Because without it, we will not have a healthy and competitive society in Croatia. I've been centralizing through a series of laws that have happened and derrogated in the last two years, now I could make laws. I don't want to, because I've talked about it more than once, it reduced that fiscal stake by 16 means total incoms from 16 to 14%. And de facto it happens that without real and quality decentralisation, Croatia will not be able to recover simply because people understand best the needs of their end, but also not just because slower or less developed should follow the better experiences of those most developed. And so it works all over the world and it's actually what you would say is healthy competition, healthy competence that simply certain units of local self-government follow the other ones, follow the better ones. And that's why it's not good to introduce for all the same criteria. It's just like that. You can't just have the same criteria for who's first and who's last. Because on average, they should run the same way, and we know that the slowest and fastest ones don't run the same way because it's obvious both on the track and before the race starts, especially entering the target arena. Here, this is my contribution to the debate, and I hope there will be some more changes, because it would not be good if we had a wider social rebellion that can be caused precisely by this third reason, which is the flood of cheap properties on the market because simply people won't be able to pay for and pay for their property without some social dialogue, and they're just for banks the highest quality debtors, because they come from the safe state sector, the unit sector of local self-government any way you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38169	Thank you very much. Next up for debate, a colleague named Danesh Shaw showed up. Here's my colleague Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38170	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed ministers of colleagues and colleagues. I want to say a few words about this bill. I absolutely support that, and it is high time that a particular order was made in that sphere. Well, I also agree with the findings that colleagues and colleagues have presented here where the Constitution is regulated that local self-government has the right to certain incomes, etc. but also by the Constitution and other regulations it is regulated to have a certain obligation to provide a certain municipal standard to the population. And now we have a situation just like this, that this part of local self-government is used and then down in the field then you have such a situation that they do, as they say, the weakest work, at least the water bill, have neither arranged footsteps nor other things, nor are some able to carry out a more serious public procurement, but at this point they pay 2.5 to 3,000 regresses for vacations. While others who work better, better quality, ensure a higher standard, they take more care of these other parts of the obligation to ensure that standard. And now, I think it would be more logical and normal for the municipalities at the level of the counties, regions or perhaps smaller even wholes in some way self-government or democratic agreements to sign some agreements, to respect certain criteria. Because it's impossible to imagine a small Baranja municipality that the captain has a salary there like the mayor of the White Manastir, nor is it logical that this one has more than the mayor of Osijek. But such a democratic agreement cannot be reached, and if there is no democracy, then anarchy occurs. And then there are these situations that need to be intervened by law in that sense. I would say more specifically about this myself, and I asked the minister when he arrived, that these jobs that are mentioned here, that's Article 9, which says, "Work places managed by a founding unit in the administrative section or service". In smaller communities, there are no founding units, but there is a single authority of the administration. So I don't think we should be doing that, but the coefficients are different. There shouldn't be any difference, because in these environments where the single administrative departments are, there must be certain officials universally to say they do all the jobs, because there's no possibility of a construction office in particular I don't know about the communal, especially for finance, especially for other cabinets. Finally, as far as this material side of the law is concerned, I think that maybe some provision should also be incorporated into that of all those who are financed mostly, where the municipality and the owner or founder, in this case are usually kindergartens or utility companies or perhaps some professional fire department etc. that the same contracts apply to them, the same criteria as those for local self-government. Because then we're going to get into a situation where the principal or the kindergarten director, especially the principal, if she's so little by nature aggressive about money, then she's going to deal with that participation of her parents that she's going to have a higher salary per month than she has the head of the community that I think absolutely wouldn't be right. It's the same situation we were talking about, all these big systems that big subsidies are getting out of the state budget, and it's been heard a lot of times in these discussions that it's not logical that they have such high personal incomes, or significantly above and above the ministers, and I'm not telling the Prime Minister yet. And in the end, since I have a few more minutes. I would also like to give a suggestion to Mr. Minister because I expect that in these coming times, in the coming year, he will work on a reorganization or a proposal for a new structure of municipalities and other perhaps state bodies, that in the making of these materials I would ask very much to take care wherever possible, I have even two suggestions to go to decentralisation of certain state administrative bodies. I'd be a very lucky man both as chief and as citizen of Baranja if I were to say that part of the problem, that's what I'm saying and it's what the vice president of the Parliament does because he knows it very well. That part of the problem at the Ministry of Agriculture when it comes to capital investment incentives and such things, that it can be solved in Osijek, because the people of Baranja, I last wrote four examples and asked Minister Cobankovic to help me because I am unable to figure out what is going on, where the papers to get this poor guy to come 300 kilometers, he can't find a building or anything, he's been waiting a year and a half to figure out if it's going to be solved, whether it's going to be solved. Well, is it such a great philosophy that it doesn't have enough professional lawyers smart people to say that we do it in Osijek and not that because of such things and a whole lot of other things it has to come and phone. And you just can't make a phone call because that lady who works the principal says she has over 200 calls because from Dubrovnik to the White Manastir everyone calls her because of it and of course she can't work effectively. Here, that's my suggestion. And the second service that also slows down and stops the work of local self-government, which is this Central Office of State Property. It's also crowded if we could do something to reorganize it to the county or region level somewhere it would be a very big help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38171	Thank you. A colleague of the Hill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38172	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. This law is a big surprise to me because I can't figure out why this law at this time of crisis because we've had a much smarter time, we've had a lot of better opportunities to settle the salaries and rights of workers in local self-government because it hasn't been since yesterday. For ten years now, these rights have been above the rights of, say, civil servants and ten-year-olds and could have been balanced and measures could be taken. We at the local self-government have those who barely make ends meet to those who share solid wages. And I don't think we're going to solve this ax by silk very well and this kind of rigid attitude about reducing almost 40% of the employees' material income compared to larger cities and richer municipalities I don't think we're going to make any big satisfaction of all these employees. Now this looks like a story about children who have played a little bit, who have become self - conscious, creative, and slightly wasteful, and now parents spin a pipe or give it to the fingertips not to spend so much. I think we should be a little bit more responsible because for 10 years, people have neither been guilty nor obliged to be rewarded for objectively less work than they have done in some ministries and elsewhere. And now, what should we feel guilty for being paid better? Or by some rules, some collective contracts belonged to them. Look, I'm very interested in the opinion of the Economic and Social Council on this law. And secondly, I am interested in whether there is any social dialogue here at all because the Croatian state is the state of social dialogue and the things concerning material incomes, the social partners must negotiate. Mr. Minister told me there are good opportunities in Denmark. Yeah, and in Austria, there's a nice opportunity for them to make nice arrangements, but they don't have developed social dialogue. I'm pretty familiar with the union scene of Europe. Austria and Denmark are social states but do not have typical social dialogue, tripartite social dialogue such as Italy, such as France, such as England, as Belgium, Germany etc. There are important differences. You need to know the nuances. So, we don't, of course we don't have the opinion of the Economic and Social Council here because if we had an opinion then we would say that collective agreements are above the law, that the law gives us the right to collective bargaining, that we're signatories to the Declaration on collective bargaining and that collective agreements can't simply be reduced by law, because then if we don't need collective agreements, we don't need social dialogue, let's get everything settled by law. But there is a part of the free will where the employer and the employer sort of negotiate, or their representatives. I'd be looking for something else here. Of course, the differences in the long term are inadmissible, of course the government has the right to intervene and to reduce this inequality but I think we must, as we had preschool education and education, primary schooling, secondary schooling, agree on some criteria and some standards. Why don't the state set criteria and standards, something that fellow Gulic used to say, something that a lot of colleagues used to say? Let's set criteria, standards that relate to something. They are linked to the original incomes of the local self-government unit and that everyone in these criteria must be responsible for managing their resources and to knowing that they can save or can spend to that extent but not beyond that. That would certainly be a better quality solution to me than what we have today. We are also signatories of the European Charter of Promotion of Public Administration, whether or not I quoted the Charter correctly, but it is mostly the essence. We've committed ourselves to improving public administration. ... The Bill of Local Self-Government, thank you, Kresho. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And we don't do it this way, because the Charter on the Promotion of Local Self-Government is mostly about the attitude towards citizens. This local self-government must also be available to address citizens' problems. We're going to completely demotize some people here that whatever they're doing, and it's going to be, you know, that old saying that has been poisoning the tissue of our society for a long time, and it's pretty much like this: "No one can pay me as little as I can do." Unfortunately, this claim that was made is universal, it destroys the fabric of this society, and this is fat on the trail. Look, we often talk, I don't hide my background, I've learned a lot in union waters about negotiating both the labour market and all that together, but I have to say, for ten years in Croatia, it's been interesting for the local authorities, at the state level, to create trade unions. And we have such liberal laws that 15 people can create a union and they negotiate at the state level. You know, that's one Republic of Italy never allowed. When it comes to laws relevant to the functioning of the entire state, only union centres negotiate. They don't interfere, as we say in Istria, spears and pasta. One marginalist cannot negotiate matters essential to the state, essential to economic development. Now, we have a lot of them, we have 7, 8 union centers, 700 and some unions in Croats, and that's a big problem now. Who's gonna pick it up now because we've got obstructions all over the place. Look, and Mr. Manolić helped organise the Croatian Union Association of His Time, Mr. Manolić. The fact that she's slowly transformed, the more radical she is today than some others, but these are facts. Maybe someone could testify to those facts, but they're in the way now. Now you can't do a quality social dialogue with such a wide range of subjects on the union scene. One more thing, we have a situation that we are, I've been fighting here not to cut wages, not to cut pensions, actually, you can cut hedges, and these things can be reduced, and I'm glad I fought for it independently of the result, but also here I'm fighting not to cut wages or not to cut wages. Why? Because each salary means a contribution to health care and a contribution to retirement. And we're really doing a spiral of death, reducing contributions, reducing wages, reducing spending, increasing the pressure on the tax part of the budget, because if we have fewer contributions, we're going to have to pay more out of the budget, because you know we can take the tax, but if we go somewhere, it's going to be a full street here, if someone wants to cut pensions and pay. So these are let's say the benign comes out of this difficult situation, but why do we cut the branch there di sit down, why are we reducing here and in the local. Let's cut it down, but with a measure, let's not go 40 percent because that's very inappropriate. So there is also a minister, and I know that some of the talks have been made that lately amendments to the government can intervene on this law. I would really plead to do so, that in some way one other frame rather than exclusively go with the position of reducing the material rights of employees in local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38173	Thank you very much. This is usually in the first reading so there's room for intervention, what you colleagues say. It's time for the esteemed colleague of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38174	I believe that there will be enough brains and wisdom that this law will not see another reading, but that local self-government and administration will remain spared the violence that is here in some way, today when we read the first reading, we have by the Minister of Administration. The Minister of Administration because there's the Office of State Administration turned into the Ministry of Administration. And then a man wonders what a state administration or a state administration office that's been called the Department of Administration since the other day, so it's now the minister of the administration, what it has to do with the units of local self-government and administration. You have enough work to do and enough trouble with the state administration, so let local self-government and administration units, they've already acquired the right of age, then decide to do their own business, how they'll live, what projects they won't have, how they'll be paid, because you shouldn't be their judge. Their judge is the voters in the election, so if their voters think that a crazy or smart chief or mayor deserves a big or small salary, make sure that citizens and voters in the Republic of Croatia have enough wisdom and wisdom to make sure that those who oversold really shifts in the first next election. That is why they do not need a minister of administration who, despite being signatories and I am sure we must and apply the European Charter, despite the fact that at the beginning of this presentation you said that you have carefully considered the possibility that this law is somehow anti-constitutional or not anti-constitutional. So I'm here late now, now it's some sort of journal, by chance, if the law despite the Palaric which is in the Constitutional Court, by chance if the law is declared unconstitutional, please, will you resign then? Here's what I'm asking you to say in public, if this law is declared unconstitutional then if this law is declared unconstitutional I'll resign because it's a law that truly deserves the minister, then if such a law is declared unconstitutional, then the least he can say or give, to resign. In a way, you act like a big brother over that and such local self - administration, thinking that, above all, there are other people in that and such local self - government. No, these are the same people as in your ministries, responsible more or less, but I am telling you that they are more responsible and that they are more responsible for taxpayers' money than are the ministers and ministries of this Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because if it were, at least it would have been polite if you had read it, and you read it, and you know it, the European Charter, then all that gets in the works and the activities of the local self-government units, and it's the laws you have to have a dialogue and consensus with them. You have neither asked the Association of Cities nor asked the Association of Countys, nor have you communicated with units of local self-government, and you are violently trying to pass one law that will tell us what we think, at least so, and that is that we are trying to tell all of you here, through you, the Arrivederci Europe and the Bongior Balkans, because it seems quite Balkan to me when trying to make one of these laws... an editor. That's what we used to have, and I don't think that's a very good one. But I'll say one more thing. You see, you're worried about wages here, but these days we've had, if I remember well, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and you ministers who have assured us that we need this coercion or a cashier working in the economy and working, who are otherwise lucky to work anywhere, that we have to do this because there's no money in the budget. But you see, I just read on one of the portals in this month when you finally realized that the crisis is in various ministries you've opened an invitation to receive 40 new employees. 40 new ones. What crisis are you talking about and what crisis are you trying to say is a crisis? Why do you receive 40 employees in various ministries so I don't count them now? I believe that you, as Minister of Administration, should know that this is how more expenditure goes from the state budget, and I don't believe that you didn't really know that your administration is, and this is the state administration, and this is how you expand and employ more people. You also told us that the implementation of this law will not require the provision of additional funds in the state budget. Whenever you read it in some law, then it means that the law is not worth anything, and it shows that it is none of your business, local self-government is something else, but yet you dare to write such a law in such a way that it can read that you really care about local self-government units. And you're saying this law will save the state budget for the financing of material expenditures of a large number of units of local and regional self-government, as well as significant savings in the budgets of units of local and regional self-government. Don't worry about savings in the budgets of local self-government and regional self-government units because they themselves care enough about savings and have already shown this before you. And by saving the resources of the state budget for the financing of material expenditures, I suppose that's for those units of local self-government that you shouldn't even exist. Well, then cut them off. If I can't make my own money for my survival, then stop them. It's simpler than getting caught up in the rights of regional and local self-government. So you're saying that in addition to the adoption of this law, there will be salary harmonisation in local and regional self-government with salary in the state service, i.e. in state authorities, in a way that pays the tra-la-la-la-la all of these equalises with the salaries of state officials, and the salaries of officials in units of regional self-government with the salaries of civil servants and deputies. That's why local self-government and administration units are better organized, they work better because they're not equal pay, and the inability to solve these problems in the state administration, that you're equating us to be just as inefficient as you are, I don't think this law should be allowed, and that's why I'm sure we won't wait for another reading. No, it's not over. I agree that you should introduce some order, but you know what we're waiting for, what other step your step should be, perhaps not in your ministry, in another ministry, because if you are now, if such a law passes, I can't wait for any of the other ministers to remember so that they can pass the law when they'll also equalise salaries in telecommunications, T-com, Agrokor and other companies that do business and live just as they live and do state and regional and local self-government. That's what I'm waiting Then try to make a catcher everywhere so that we're all the same, all equally guilty, all equally incompetent, all equally, I don't know how to make us more declared, and that very diversity of local self-government from the state administration has proved to be more effective and better. Asphyxiate in this way by the unconstitutional laws of local self-government, I don't think even you as a new minister would have expected it. If I say so myself declare this law unconstitutional, here's what I'm waiting for you to say if that's how you're going to resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38175	Thank you. And the last application for an individual debate, distinguished colleague Miljenko Doric. Here's your colleague, Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Minister, who has been taking part all along, or listens to this debate. I will especially have some questions for you and that is why I'm really glad you're here with us and I expect to get some answers in your final address. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, we all swear to decentralisation, we all know that decentralisation especially in transition countries after the fall of the Berlin Wall has significantly accelerated democratic processes. We all know that the foundation of European democracy is also to kill local and regional democracy, and none of us are likely to differ significantly in attitudes. I will, however, shorten my exposure because I will accept it immediately and say that my thinking, about what we must do, is somewhere in the triangle between what we heard from colleagues of Sprem, colleagues of Gulic and colleagues of Lesar. So you see there's no partying. I've chosen three colleagues who have made certain objections, proposed certain solutions, and I think this law in the second reading must be very different or it won't be. Namely, we received the law at an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament in late July 2009. Almost... We have had this structure of local and regional self-government since April, that is, since December of '92, the first elections in April '93. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since then, in this House there has never been a single analysis of the work of local self-government, local self-government, regional self-government. Where are we now? We don't know. What are the problems? We don't know. Everything's down to what? On individual interventions, requests, requests, above all Mr. Palarić and I personally spoke to him countless times about these difficulties, my club HNS offered countless legal proposals, giving. Clearly, everything is systematically rejected. In order to arrive at the end of July this year at an extraordinary session, we will get an offer that clearly won't be able to go any further. For he shall come upon the wall and by his colleagues on the left and right of this assembly at the second reading, if he shall remain in this form. Mr Minister, we, among other things, have warned your predecessor, who covered the area of Secretary of State Palaric, that there was one important document he signed, in addition to the laws we proposed to amend and supplement various laws in this area. No, I don't. It is a strategy for innovative and good local self-government, which was adopted in March last year by the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers as a continuation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The European Charter said to decentralisation countries, and this strategy says local and regional communities are doing better because you have to work better and this strategy consists of 12 principles of responsibility, efficiency, transparency, respect for laws, ethics, expertise, innovation, long-term planning, proper financial business, social sensitivity, participation of citizens in the decision-making process etc., etc. In detail, every principle has been worked out. No one's ever mentioned him. Instead of applying it, installing it in our legislation, applying it in practice, we hide it from the citizens, although we have warned Mr Palaric several times. That's sad. That's not how it works. This is the second step that the Croatian state should have taken as a full member of the Council of Europe. We've silenced a significant document. What is the objective of this bill? Is he also anti-recession law? I'm not sure. In the introduction of this law, there is a mess. Who's to blame for the current mess? Is Strasbourg, Brussels or Budapest? Who is to blame that individuals in the local self-government have evened their own personal bank account in employment, in contracting jobs, in setting up their offices, in huge salaries. See what our utility companies look like in local and regional self-government. Same as state-owned companies. Amazing salaries, offices with these carpets, state-of-the-art equipment, and it's about monopolies, companies that don't allow anyone else to enter the city or county. How do they form prices? That the majority of the city or county council, or the congregation, raise their hands. And what have we done? We didn't do anything. That's not good for colleagues and colleagues. And this law, is he regulated? Does he change anything about utility companies? Nothing. We don't touch them. In Zagreb we have two budgets 7, 8 billion one budget, and this one is just as big. ... Let's not touch it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also in Rijeka, Split, Osijek and other major cities. So we're doing it clearly, we're only doing part of the job. I hope, Mr. Minister, that Mr. Palaric has left you a list of these unfinished transactions and, as far as the strategy I mentioned and as regards the Council of Europe's ethical code, and many other documents that should have been incorporated into our legislation, suggest that the local and regional communities work in that direction. I also ask you, we have never made a serious analysis, a state of local and regional self-government, but I have warned countless times what kind of vertical communication we have between three levels of government in Croatia. Nothing. People, if we've decided to decentralisation, if we've decided on three levels of government, then optimal results can only be achieved in what way? Permanent and systematic coordination of three levels of government, which we do not have. There's still some horizontal coordination here and there organized by the county, but there's no special coordination between the two counties. We don't have horizontal coordination here either, let alone vertical coordination. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, a law that will ensure order, namely the need for not such a law. This law does not impose order. This law strengthens disorder, strengthens entropy, drives experts, makes it impossible for positive human selection to be carried out, but it does go in the direction of negative human selection. A fellow Gulic made an excellent point at those problematic points in this bill. I ask you to respect these suggestions, make a whole new law at the second reading, and you will get our support. Otherwise, it's absolutely impossible to pass such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38177	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the applications for an individual hearing. On behalf of the motionary, Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38178	Vice President, I'm not gonna say it curtously, but thank you for your remarks in the debate and for the bile and less bile. It was certainly those who could be taken and considered when making the final text of the law, but I have certain things to say. I will refrain from commenting in the same way for the sake of education and decency, so I will not say attacks but criticism of the text of the law. But there's something I have to say. Mlakar did not offer the Parliament a law in first reading, it was offered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I've been given a duty since it's in the portfolio of that administration ministry that I present the law and defend it before the Parliament. So I think you're also aware of it. What I wanted to say was I recorded as much as I could concentrate everything that was said. I'm sorry that some who have unloaded their remarks aren't here, so then I feel that it's a completely different kind of conversation without a conversation that you'd like to address. But I'd say one basic principle. Whenever a regulation is passed that regulates wages, receipts, material rights, they will always be dissatisfied and we will never safely achieve the acceptance of such a regulation by acclaiming, especially in cases where law enforcement means the reduction of rights or the reduction of salaries of those concerned. I understand the position of many of you who spoke. I don't want to qualify her. But it's clear to me that you speak on the one hand as parliamentary representatives who need to pass the law, which should be applied to places where some of you are as mayors, deputy mayors, mayors, mayors, etc. It is therefore additionally sensitive to discuss this law. However, I will repeat once again the principles that we have tried to show by this law. The only group that is not represented in any way by Parliament, so let me speak for them are civil servants. State officials who are mostly expected to work without a conversational work of top quality, for small wages and wages, are mostly subject to criticism and for their part, but always cause additional criticism to the public. Our principle was also deeply believed in him today, that those officers working in the central state, regardless of political commitment. So if they work at the ministry advisors I believe they do more complex jobs than advisors in cities. And that is why it cannot be made public and probably exists especially in large cities where some people are particularly burdened with work and it can be accepted and corrected and located somewhere for such jobs in the law. But if we don't have a system where those who do more complex jobs are better educated and more complex jobs are better and paid, then this whole system makes sense at all, regardless of the financial opportunities of individual local units. I deeply believe, I say once again, that those who work at the central state administration should be the best we have are not the best. For 50 years we've been working on not being the best 50 years is being a state official of any level. We thought it was time to offer something that would first introduce order, and then lead to a change in that system one day when it's possible to function. It is not true that professional associations have not been given the opportunity to manifest themselves on the text of the law. They were obvious and made comments. The only people I see here delivered a referendum, and they didn't understand as well what it was about was the Union of civil servants and local officials and tenants, associations of cities, associations of municipalities and associations of the county at the same time with the union and wrote in writing their remarks. We will strive to adopt these remarks by adopting the principle that there must be a hierarchy in business and that there must be a hierarchy in wages. What we mentioned, it was partly settled by this law. I don't claim at all that it's ideal, that the mayor can't, that I can't caricate again, have a higher salary than the president of the state and that it's a system that we can't defend by any means. What I'd like to ask if we've already spoken in a culinary manner, then at least quote me correctly, because what you said I didn't say in the towers. But I said we took examples of European countries that solved the same problem. And anything other than Austria, which if we can compare, which at the county level solves the issue of salaries of civil servants, all others solve with the central authority of the Laws of Salaries in the local self-government. And for those of you who are saying that the bill against the constitution may have been too much for you to know that so far, we've been regulating salaries in local self-government by law. And that the law to be called the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, was passed in 2001 and said that until the adoption of a special law to regulate wages in local self-government, the provisions of the Law on Civil Servants will be applied locally. And they arranged the ranges in which their wages could be moved. The only problem with that law, which is probably the same thing equally anti-constitutional, was that the law did not establish the basis for the salary calculation, so the wages escalated to some of the known values. I thank you for your suggestions. I believe we'll still have that law, we'll have the strength to do what I think can improve the text. And I believe we'll send it to another reading in September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38179	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38180	So now we're going to vote. Please quorum. Come on, come on, come on, come on, 84, there are more of us, but here we can vote. Proposal for a bill on wages in local and regional (regional) self-government, first reading, P.Z. No. 415. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, a proposal for a bill on wages in local and regional (regional) self-government is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 25 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38181	We're moving to agenda five. That's 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax with the Final Bill, Hini Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 416 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When we set up the agenda, we agreed to accept an emergency procedure. According to Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and the Water Economy. We received reports from the board at the session. The proposer's representative is State Secretary Mr. Ivica Mladneo. Does he want to take the opening word? Here you go, Mr. Mladneo.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38182	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax. The proposed law constitutes one of the anti-recession measures, given that the introduction of these measures affects the increase of the revenues of the state budget. This proposal expects the state budget to be made by around a billion and a half kuna annually. What's changing? The value added tax rate is changed, the total rate of 22% is replaced by the 23% tax rate and the national budget revenue is expected to increase by 1 billion kuna per year, which would have a positive impact on the redistribution of funds for the needs of parts of the economy and the population group affected by the economic crisis. It is proposed that the law enter into force from 1 August 2009. Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38183	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of an incorrect allegation. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38184	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Secretary of State, you have incorrectly stated that this law is an anti-recession measure. I mean, without the intention of pollomining this isn't even a direct transmission, but I had to react. On the contrary. The larger VAT is a recession measure because in all countries, anti-recession measures are meant to be turned towards the discharging of the economy and citizens, where new taxes are introduced, not anti-recession measures. This may be an anti-recession measure in terms of the revenues of the state budget but not in terms of the economy as a whole. And that's what I actually had to react to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38185	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I don't see any applications. So we're going to a club debate. The first application is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Goran Maric. Here's my colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38186	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The VAT law has already changed several times. These changes mainly related to the expansion of the tax exemption cycle, the introduction of zero rates for taxing certain products such as bread, milk, books, scientific journals, etc. and introducing 10% rate for tourism services and daily and periodical newspapers. These changes did not always result in expected results. Even in some cases, a decrease in VAT rates has caused price increases. That is why this law, which is now changing these changes in the general rate, is being passed at the most awkward time but I would not now repeat the exhausted topic of the global financial crisis, the fall in economic activity, the crisis that has affected Croatia, the reduced revenues of the state budget, the drop in unemployment and all other economic side effects that follow each recession. The economic increase in the overall VAT rate cannot be classified as a spectrum of direct anti-recession measures, but this can be classified as an instrument for increasing the revenues of the state budget and expectations are a billion and 500 million kuna per year, and this increase in the state budget can affect the improvement of liquidity in the Croatian economy and it is known that indifference has been quite affected by the Croatian economy. In this regard, too, it can be expected if the expected results are obtained that this improved liquidity can also be acted anti-recessionally. So the most important thing in this case is to improve liquidity because without improving liquidity we cannot expect positive effects. And if the expected result succeeds, the revenues of the state budget increase by a billion and a half, then it can be expected that the state that I repeats several times is not a generator but indifference in Croatia can do much to establish and improve the liquid potential of the state and thus national potential. This is an extremely sensitive time. The increase in VAT rates to result in positive effects of the assumption is the mutual reconciliation of all obligations in the Croatian economy. And that's why the biggest reason why this law should be supported is because the revenues will contribute to you in the short term to improve that liquidity. Of course he carries with him certain risks. There may also be a deterioration in indifference, and there may be an increase in prices, and that is something that is extremely dangerous in this situation. Happy announcements that producers will not raise prices due to an announced increase in VAT rates and I have no doubt at all that producers will not raise prices. Manufacturers have never been a problem in the Croatian economy. Personally, I'm the most afraid of merchants. So we appeal to them not to abuse this situation and to participate in one exit from this crisis because in this crisis they do not pay for the best passes, and non-payment is the biggest cause. And therefore, I would also ask the Ministry of Finance to draw special attention to those who do not pay suppliers, while taking pre-taxes for VAT amounts from entry invoices at the same time. That makes for more indifference. So those who haven't charged invoices have paid VAT and come into an even bigger and more awkward situation. So please, at the Ministry of Finance, find the instruments to protect these businessmen. All concentration should also be focused on financial discipline. Under these difficult management conditions, financial discipline is the main assumption for further progress and it is expected that this change in VAT rates, from 22% to 23% of the general VAT, is also one economic short-term measure, will assume that urgent and medium-term and long-term measures that will lead to exit from the crisis, recovery of the economy, and we hope soon to see economic growth. The HDZ Club will support changes to the VAT Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38187	Thank you. SDP representative club...... And it won't work, so if you say it won't work then it won't work. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So the correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38188	Dear colleague Maric, I highly respect what you've brought forward, but I must correct an incorrect assumption. Financial discipline is what we always need to avoid having such situations now, but otherwise it is always needed not only now, because if we had financial discipline, if all unpaid work were paid in Croatia, then we would have fewer problems. Thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38189	And that's the correction of an incorrect quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38190	With support.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38191	With the support that it's always necessary, not just now. ... And Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic of the SDP's Club of Representatives. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38192	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's the first thing I want to say is that we're not glad this debate is going at 8:00 and 3:00 p.m. The debate on raising VAT is not something that needs to be hidden from the public, and that is why I am saying it and we are definitely not glad that this goes into this hour, especially because in 2003, the ruling set announced that VAT will decrease from 22% to 20%. It was a political platform back then. It didn't happen in the first four years of Sanader's first government, and in the second two years of Sanader's second government, the pre-election platform was that there were no new taxes, and this week we witnessed a whole series of new duties. Whether these are old taxes that are higher or more about new taxes for a Croatian citizen, for the Croatian economy, because it is a new burden for both the economy and the construction and therefore the debate on value added tax, raising the value added tax rate is something that should have been debated in the public eye rather than in this hour at 8 and 15. There's so much at the beginning. I can agree with my predecessor's arguments in the presence of a HDZ club who said that the intention of this is to increase liquidity and I can't find anything controversial in his arguments and in what he's trying to say and he's definitely taking off his statements and I'm definitely taking off his hat there. But what needs to be said for the sake of truth is that tax revenues fell by 17% this year, of which is the most significant share of the value added tax. So that's what the fact is. If this adds indifference means in the Croatian economy which has generated the most widely generated by a state that does not pay its obligations for as many as 180 to 360 days, we come to a figure of 17 billion. Now, if this 5% VAT increase is going to be an increase of 1 index point, but in the nomination it's 1/22, that's a 5% increase, it's not a 1% increase, so that's a 5% VAT increase, it's an annual level of 1.5 billion to 17 billion indifference. It's very funny, and I could say it like that, a negligible figure, especially in this situation when you can't even hear what we've heard and the reasons for the Minister's concerns, service some current obligations like those of the most basic ones, which are salaries and pensions. So this certainly won't fix the liquidity situation, that's where I have to deny you. What we need to say when it comes to VAT growing here 5% is that in a situation where the world economy, the United States, Europe through the European Commission, through its institutions for one move, we do totally the other. And that's what's going to happen, we're going to see in two months that actually this measure will act recessionally, not anti-recessionally. Why the recession? Because anti-recession measures are recognised in this way by discharging the economy and citizens, so that it comes in the best possible way to get cheap money to boost economic activity, so that incomes are directed into those investments that bring added value, those investments that bring back and those investments that lead to an increase in tax mass, because if you don't have the tax mass to which you're going to collect, right. And so I have to express just in a way regret, I don't want to say it personally, but from the very introduction in which Mr. Secretary of State mentioned that this measure is anti-recessional, it is seen in some way that it essentially does not recognise this problem and that, in fact, the Ministry of Finance that should act as the fiscal centre of growth is acting as a tax centre. What does that mean? On the one hand, you have incomes collected for tax purposes, on the other hand you have expenses that are served by obligations and that is legitimate and that is good. However, what has not been considered in this country in the last few years does not reflect on how these incomes come from one side. Well, you can't have a man who bought a new apartment a year or two ago who might have worked in a local self-government unit and where he'll be getting paid now, so he'll be in big trouble buying a new apartment and paying for it 22% for 5 years to buy another apartment. He won't. Maybe not for the next 50 years. And that's one trend that happened within a certain short period of time, and we need to understand the way in which the revenue is being filled because if we don't know it, we can hardly plan any expenditure in the future. The European countries, the United States, the transition countries, and those who have accepted IMF assistance, and those who have decided to fight for themselves, are actually dealing with reforms using a simple principle, meaning through the deficits they finance structural reforms in the state administration. It's no secret that our incomes, i.e. Our expenditure for government employees rose by 10 billion from 2003 to 2005, so it increased from 14 to 25, with practically another 11 to 25 billion kuna, so it's about big money, it's about that efficiency, and it's about a big, big burden on the spending side that should definitely have been caught before. And now that the money's gone, it's hard to do any structural and procedure, but they'll be necessary in that part. And now you see, you have on one side a way to invest to stimulate production in developed countries, to stimulate those products that bring added value. Why? In order to collect more taxes from this added value later in future periods, and we have as one cake and we take most of the country from that cake, and we do not create a new cookie. And the one who doesn't understand it can't plan any revenue in the future, and we will de facto be undermining our own tax base with this measure and with tax measures. So, we in the short term over 2 months, given the effect that is happening immediately, especially from the contribution tax, will have some better charge of the state budget, but within a little longer time than 2 or 3 months, it will happen to us that because of the fall in income from people will have 2 effects. Em will spend less on them, so demand will fall on both supply and production. Another effect is consumer pessimism because when you cut people's wages and you raise prices, they decide it's time to save, and that's another effect. And those two effects work multiplicatively with each other, and they're sure to happen within 3 months that this won't be enough either. And here, I assure you now. They were alive and seen. That's what I'm thinking, and that's what we're thinking at the club. 1.5 billion at the annual level is the income now planned, it is based on this year's analyses, but be sure when going into tax increases, and that is something Maric said that things, especially in the economy, are not at first as they seem. There is also a reduction in certain taxes, there is an increase in prices, and in the case of an increase in taxes, there is a lower charge. There actually exists throughout the life of the economy a very, very clear correlation that bigger taxes lead to something weaker charge so it's probably going to happen with VAT, so 1.5 billion at the annual level is, I'd reject it in advance. And now we come up with that thing that I think is crucial, which is the legitimacy of raising value added tax, so we need to remind that with this value added tax, we're not creating added value, we're creating a tax on that value. So, even in the future, we will not direct these funds to creating added value, but we will patch up, let's say current obligations and accumulated liabilities from past periods. Such are the obligations which unfortunately lead Croatia into inequitableness, in fact they have already taken her away. And in Switzerland, for example. A few years ago, a referendum was launched for the matter of free work between Bulgaria and Romania in the country. So these are two ways how new taxes, especially if you get voter confidence on the political platform that there will be no new taxes can be introduced. So if you get voter confidence that there will be no new taxes, and you're forced to introduce new taxes, then it can go two ways. This could mean either a referendum or early elections. I'm not the one who's gonna tell you the choices you have to call tomorrow, but the fact is that you would, for example. in Switzerland for much less and much less serious things than introducing new taxes and burdens in Croatia as this week we are, for example, doing referendums and wondering the public what they think about it. Unfortunately, we're not Switzerland, we're still a long way from it. I hope that we will have some similarities in the future, but in this proposal we see nothing that could lead in this direction in a very short time. And here, our view is that against this tax we're definitely going to be because this is a tax that won't help even liquidity, it won't help the economy either. It does not necessarily have to collect prices, it will surely lead to a lower tax charge within 2.3 months. It is within a long time, long term in this sense of the economic crisis in which we have public finances, it is a long deadline and 3 months to lead in a recession direction, so it will lead towards eating its own tax mass. And so this measure is actually a measure that leads to it, you'll see in 3.4 months that the new taxes, these tax duties are meant to eat their own substance. That's what's not good and that's what we do the opposite of Europe and the world fighting in different ways both with recession and with global crisis, and I have to express both skepticism and regret that this is being introduced. I'm saying, we'll see, time will show, but we'll be against it anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38193	Thank you. HNS MPs' club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38194	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This VAT Act has two articles. 1st article reads VAT rises from 22% to 23%, 2nd is applied from Saturday. The explanation looks like this. It's the same explanation. The VAT rises to 23% and is spent from Saturday. There's no explanation in other words. The only thing that says in the introduction, and that could be interpreted as some explanation, is that to enforce this law, you don't need money. Now that argument is wrong, because for the implementation of this law or when this law begins to be implemented it is almost inevitable that it will cost money and my speakers have also pointed out the danger that it is evident that it will lead to de facto a reduction in the charge of the budget rather than an increase. Because if such measures really led to an increase in budgeting in such a crisis situation, then the only thing better than to increase VAT from 22 to 23% would be to increase VAT from 22% to 24%, because then it would be twice as much more than now to fill the budget. Obviously something about that logic and that math isn't right. It is said that the Prime Minister is talking about not raising prices, appealing to traders not to raise prices. If we're serious about people, it's clear to everyone that there's no appeal or persuasion on the market. There are some that may be held back for a month or two, but after that, the VAT increase will certainly cause price increases. If the government asks them very nicely, maybe they'll hold their breath for a few months, but away from that, I don't think anyone's ever seen that one economy and the market work on our mothers and please don't, so they won't. So there's all the opportunity and I think it's rational and it's really necessary to put ourselves there rationally that prices will rise. The logic my speakers also spoke of in this case is the higher VAT, relatively quickly after that higher price, through this reduced consumption, countless times in this House has been repeated that consumption has already fallen by 17%. Therefore, further decrease in consumption and then decrease in total VAT revenue. And we're going to be in an absurd situation to cut the budget by increasing VAT. I think that these are colleagues from HDZ and SDP who are fully aware of the dangers, and of course we don't have to invent hot water. Many examples in Europe have previously indicated that the Irish example is just the other way around where the reduction of this type of tax has led to accelerated budget filling. So it's not like we're dealing with this for the first time, so we have to start with the method of trying and making mistakes, but it's already been tried and it's known what's going to come out of it. Now that it is already talking about increasing VAT which, as we remember, has been promised in the guarantee card to the famous HDZ that this will not happen, or even that the VAT will decrease. Just along the way one small footnote, I got an e-mail from Dubrovnik this afternoon, in which a gentleman says he's returning, or selling a guarantee card to HDZ, and since she, what she promised on it, is not costing anything, then he's selling for half of it, so half of nothing. So is this violation of the obligation taken in the elections really in some useful direction? A law that has two articles and an explanation that has two lines can't really see it. If it is to use money in this way, at least this year, I doubt that next year there will be some funds from such VAT, if it is intended to be used to guarantee, for example, the reduction of the time limits of payment of the state, because the state is of course the most indisciplined in payment, the state of course the longest deadlines has payments and produces this spiral of inequitableness. And if these funds that will be collected in this way add up to, say, the end of this year, are meant to be directed towards reducing the payment deadlines by the state, if the thoughts are directed to at least a reduction or perhaps a halting spiral of indifference which the state does by its non-payment or by paying after more than a year produce, then maybe it makes some sense. But you can't do that and you can't see it from a law like this. That might then have to be combined with some other law, perhaps with the law, changes to the Public Procurement Act, as the CNS has already proposed here in this House. Maybe changing some other laws. But it would have to be seen that when an additional imposition is imposed, that this is done because every measure, every anti-recession measure must certainly contain the core of future development policy. That's what's gonna make it better. If you can't see it then it doesn't make sense. And you can't really see from this. So whether it will go and be purposely directed. Does the state hereby commit itself to stepping down and focusing this on stopping a spiral of liquidity and faster payment, so it commits itself to some accelerated payment of its debts. Or it will simply be eaten in one short-term consumption. It's not clear. You can't see it from this law. And it really has to depend on it, not only because the HNS club is involved, but in the first row, as far as the HDZ Club is concerned. And then his coalition partners. Where these money goes must be your support. Because it's understandable and acceptable to me that if it's going to stop or at least reduce the difficulty of being indifference that you support it, it would be logical for us to support it at that time. But if it goes into short-term consumption and we're going to eat it in a hurry. Then it's not really pointless and I don't think it's fair for you in the front row of the HDZ Club to demand that you support it on an honorable note. To support it just so that you do not have any additional accompanying law or amendment or addition in some additional accompanying law that will guarantee that it makes sense. That it's directed in the right direction and that you're helping things clear up with that measure. Unfortunately, in these discussions we have generally seen this extraordinary session of ours both on the budget and on the laws that follow it, we have not really shown ourselves in the marketing of common solutions. So in listening not only to what causes the scene effect, but to the real content of what people are saying. And people you don't get along with politically sometimes say something that makes sense and can be of use to a man. In this case, it seems to me at least by what I have now heard from the HDZ Club and from the SDP Club, that de facto there is a lot of consensus in the assessment of this law and in the assessment of the dangers that are threatened and possibly possible benefits for which we have here and in this which is proposed we do not have the right guarantees, but does not deny the possibility of it being, but it should somehow be presented and guaranteed. And not that we're being pictured here are these two lines that say nothing except that it's being spent on Saturday and it's not going to be 22 but it's going to be 23. Finally, and I suppose, I don't suppose so, but I hope I'm completely wrong and my fears are unwarranted, but I would still beg for an explanation on behalf of the HNS Club by the Secretary of State. So, so far, in the VAT Act, we had a 22% VAT, we had a zero VAT rate for bread, milk, medicines, books, scientific journals, orthopedic aids and public screening films, and we had 10% VAT in tourism and on newspapers and magazines. Is it still as it is, or is it considered, and this law cannot make it clear, that this will be as a single rate, so that the VAT of 23% from now on will be imposed on bread, milk, medicines, books, scientific journals, orthopedic aids and public screening of films as well as on tourism and newspapers and magazines? I hope my fear is completely unwarranted, but I still ask that it be clarified here. Unfortunately, since this law has no arguments and no accompanying solutions or amendments and additions to the law would in any way indicate that funds from an increased VAT will go to a reduction in liquidity. The HNS club can't support this law. If he shows up with some guarantees or with some legal changes to any of this other law from which it can be read in any way that this money will not be eaten in the short term, but will go towards stopping indifference or at least reducing the monsters of indifference, of course, in such a case our attitude would be different. In this case, the HNS cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38195	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38196	Thank you very much. My colleague Pusic would rather give you a replica than a correction of an incorrect quote, but I have no business opportunities. They said the state is the cause of indifference in the Republic of Croatia. Believe me, I know a very good debt structure, all the debts of the state to economic operators, but I also know the structure of the debt of economic operators to the state. For many years, they have been rich at the expense of non-payment to the state. And after that systematic analysis, they can conclude that the state is also a participant of indivisibility but that it is not a generator and a causator, because it is on the side of economic operators and even some dominant entities, they are the main and stimulating factor of individence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38197	Individual debate, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. What do we do? Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. She's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38198	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Speech is not enabled.]] In a situation like this where we do not know what the objectives are yesterday we said the rebalance, which is the budgetary policy objectives for 2010, when we intervene in the tax system and only in that part and in those participants who are already paying high taxes, then it is really not possible to support it. But I will say three, four sentences about the history of introducing value added tax in Croatia. The law was passed in 1995, we know what the situation was then in Croatia. It was not applied in 96, so with a calendar year but only in 1998. In a conversation with the then vice president of the government and at the time when the tax started collecting in 98th year with Mr. Skegro, I asked him how we got to the 22% rate, if it was a simulation and he said we were thinking about the 18% rate, the war was near the end, the destruction in Croatia big, we estimated that we should go at a higher VAT rate because we knew that we would have to secure significant funds in the budget to cover the cost of war. And that was understandable. In time, it was expected that the high rate that was likely justified at the time when the law was passed and when the law was applied would be reduced in a near future. But what happened in 1998? It seems to me that it was the 11th month we had budget rebalance, Mr. Vice President remembers that. It was very cheerful in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38199	2.5 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38200	Eight billion, I think. It seems to me that there were 8 billion more than the budget was planned and the budget was increased by almost 30%. All amendments to the opposition and positions were then accepted for the first and only time in Parliament's history.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38201	I think 2.5 billion was.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38202	Why was that bad? We were looking forward to it then. All the amendments have passed. But why was that bad? It was bad because the surplus did not focus on some development projects, which may not have returned to the economy or did not reduce the VAT rate at that time. We know what happened to us in '99, huge indifference, and everything else is past. Therefore, we should learn something from the past rather than accuse each other of what the government was doing at what time. And now to go back to this law. The value added tax for production is a neutral tax. It's so in normal orderly economies. In Croatia, it is not a neutral tax for industry, nor for the economy precisely because we have, we do not have regulated financial flows, which is not paid properly in our country, which is an indifference large and often economic operators who do not have that happiness that do not have to pay taxes and contributions without sanctions then sometimes have to postpone paying someone else. This increases liquidity, creates problems in economic and financial flows, or they have to take loans to pay the value added tax and cannot charge their claims for months, sometimes a year. For these reasons, neither our value added tax nor our economic operators is neutral. But what does that mean at this point for the citizens? A few hours ago, we concluded a debate about the introduction of a new income tax and pension tax at 2 and 4%. The pensions will not be adjusted, so even the small ones, the lowest pensions will not be adjusted. So far, the decline in retail traffic has been 17%. It won't change that much until the end of the year. The tourist season in the few weeks it lasts can't significantly improve this situation. So far, citizens have reduced that consumption by 10% through their personal consumption. After such moves, they will continue to reduce it in one piece because they will not have income. Those who have high incomes they and now spend the most, they won't spend any more. They've spent as much as they've spent. All this will actually affect the further decline in consumption and the further decline in consumption will affect lower revenues and the state budget, not to mention that it will affect the decline in production, that the decline in consumption with all that I have now listed will be affected by this measure that we may be discussing tomorrow, probably tomorrow, which is the Law on Support for Job Conservation. So a shortened working week is actually going to mean less production. On the one hand, we may be saving some jobs, but that means less production because over the week and over the month, it's actually going to work, building a smaller fund of hours. So, a few hours ago, I said, the bigger tax press always affects the way it tries to keep the tax quiet. Some people do it consciously, some people don't pay taxes because they can't pay for it because they don't have the financial means to pay for it. This means lower revenue in the state budget from this value added tax base. He still now has the biggest drop of all tax revenues in the state budget. I'll say that reducing the VAT rate would bring the same or perhaps higher level of tax collected. And we're constantly being told here you've proposed something and it would result in 145 billion losses or less revenue losses in the state budget. And I'm going to tell you that we probably would have accepted the proposal that we put out here a few months ago to introduce interdepartments for certain products that are spent daily to stay in the home budgets a little bit more money. We then calculated about 200 kuna. Those who have three thousand kunas, who have five thousand kunas, who have six thousand kunas, are all household incomes that don't have enough money for that minimal union basket. They wouldn't put those 200 kunas in a sock, they'd spend it extra. The same level and perhaps a slightly higher level of value added tax would be collected but would be slightly higher consumption. If you spent a little bit more then you'd get a little more and produce and the effects would be far better. And that's why I think these calculations that are about to raise a billion and 200, 300 million kuna by the end of the year, or we're going to raise about 3 and a half billion next year, so I don't think they're real. We can, our Prime Minister can talk to traders and producers not to raise prices. They won't raise the price 1.8 because technically it won't be possible, they won't be up in a week or two, but the first orders in stores and the first calculations to be made for retail prices will have a 23% tax rate. It's not going to be higher by 1%, but by 2, 3, 4, actually by as many percentages as they predict in advance that it's going to cost them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38203	Comrade Zgrebec, thank you. I remember we're, you're right, 8 billion. I had an amendment to the two-and-a-half billion amendments that went to Osijek-Baranja County, and we're all MPs in this assembly together. We squandered, those 8 billion went to school, went to roads, went to public facilities. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] But it mostly went into a variety of large infrastructure projects, and so we didn't put it into development, but we put it back into repair and that. [[Intruder: It didn't always work out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38204	But it's me. But now that I remember... [[/Intruder: Why don't you write amendments now?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38205	Memoirs or amendments? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38206	As we recall the vice president, the government refused me an amendment to a million and 700 thousand kuna, but it gave me two and a half million dollars for that purpose. Therefore, for one facility that was estimated to be a million and 700 thousand kuna, the government gave 2 and a half million.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38207	Those were golden years. ... When the government shared a hand and a hat. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. He's gone. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. He's not here either. Madam representative is here, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have seen from these discussions that we have heard that VAT and charge in this way are budgets, that they are essentially proportionally proportional, i.e. they are inverted sizes. In fact, the increase in VAT will certainly lead to an increase in prices, leading to a decrease in consumption, i.e. a decrease in total VAT revenue in the budget. In fact, the VAT hike now from 22% to 23% cannot believe that it will not affect price hikes. The prices will, of course, rise. Madam Prime Minister or anyone who is likely to talk, reach an agreement, but no one will be able to influence such price hikes. So, in this case, our citizens, more and more underpaid workers, will wait for monthly directorial expenditure, they will go to the store only for the most basic foods and are now thinking about how they will manage to buy their children books and provide a minimum of normal living standards. I will also remember my promises to the citizens that they were telling HDZ to choose us and we will immediately reduce VAT from 22% to 20% upon coming to power. But that point, of course, gave up at the same rate as the unexpected and the pre-election campaign. As Mrs Pusic said and in fact presented her ambiguity in the law, and this is the ambiguity of what this general rate refers to, whether it also refers to the 10% accommodation services related to tourism, i.e. newspapers and magazines, and I hope that the secretary of state will explain it later. I would actually share more with you the concerns of tourist workers compared to this VAT. We know that the action plan for the rescue of Croatian tourism is, in fact, a niveling of VAT rates on food and drink with those who are in place in competitive countries. Namely, a reduction in VAT is expected to be made to food and drink from 22% to 10%. In fact, Minister Bajs has gathered experts and is one of the possible anti-recession measures to save tourism. Experts have actually seen just coming out of a crisis in the level of VAT. Of course, this can be done, which is why there is actually a real basis because the European Union has recently adopted recommendations to make VAT on such products in tourism equal to 5.5%. That's why guests and hotelers could certainly be more competitive. According to these data that are already visible today by the tourism union, the season will be financially lower 15% than last year, and that is why they are not weird about their thinking, or the thinking of tourism workers. In fact, the crisis tax and the increase in VAT are certainly unacceptable in tourism, and that is why the Tourist Union appreciated that it further reduces the small purchasing power of the sector's workers, as well as also reduces the interest in working in the sector. As far as tourism is concerned, I'm going to remind you back in 2005, of an article from "Free Dalmatia" that reads: "The 22% VAT would have killed the entire tourism" Let's remember that as a bomb it echoed in business-tourism circles just the news of the elimination of the zero VAT rate. And what did that zero VAT rate mean? Remember, it was introduced in 2001 to encourage organised foreign arrivals to guests, and this business was to kill characterised as exports. Let us remember that this organized foreign arrivals in Croatia consisted of approximately 25 to 30% of the total tourist traffic in the country hosted about 9.4 million tourists, they were freed of VAT. And this precisely zero rate gave the wind back to investments in Croatian hotels whose new owners of future business and loans for new investments were just based on this economic relief. And we're going back to reality today, so raising VAT rates from the current 22% to 23%, the state says it's going to pick up an additional billion kuna annually, and the main consequence will certainly be an increase in prices and services. Here, with this I will end up, so any increase in VAT means a safe collection of products and services and that is why it is a real danger that a part of employers will use an increase in VAT to collect, not just one that goes by calculation, but even bigger. And that's exactly why we won't accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38209	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38210	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here's to this late hour, unfortunately, about such an important subject and in an ambience that has been decimated with us as much as possible. All is said, 23% of the tax is one measure that will lead to an increase in prices inevitably. We all agree on that. Regardless of the promises we heard today, which are days in the government that will not increase prices, however, if we have listened well, and we have, the businessmen have announced that, but they are not the only 22% input, or 23, there are other instructions. Therefore, prices will inevitably rise either for this reason or for that reason, 23% will be built in. We speak, however, where all those businessmen and all those companies, all the business entities that will install 23% and the prices will rise. Unfortunately, again we touch, or work on the income side, increase income so that we can cover the expenditure side that we haven't significantly reduced. Therefore, it is not about saving, it is about saving budget, but we are increasing revenues, we are burdening ourselves with that law before the citizens, part of the citizens, or all the citizens, even though they might not all feel it, but with this law, they will all feel through an increase in price. I won't repeat that in 2.3 months, the revenue side will feel again through reduced purchasing power, through reduced shopping, there will be a imminent decline in consumption, meaning a decrease in consumption, a lower tax, a lower income in the state budget, and we will be on the same track in 2.3 months. But well, it'll be interesting to see, I hope we'll deal with the quotes to say so with the expenditure side of the budget and the awareness of our consumption in real terms, and that means awareness of spending within how much money we have. As much as we have money, we'll be able to spend it. It will be any political party, any option, any authority will have to make it. I'm hoping as soon as possible because the situation will become very fast. However, with this application to return, I have had several interventions of people from the economy, several interventions, and this specifically refers to a representative of the ministry that is with us. It is, in fact, that the tax bill is now informed or computerised, that there are programmes, and that programmes will need to be changed to calculate a new VAT. The programs will need to be changed, the economic operator, I don't know who's not doing it with the computer today, or he's not informing or doing it on foot. In order for applications to be modified, clear instructions should be given how, in which way, they will go from one step to another. There's a lot of questions that haven't been solved. I hope that the legislator thought about, that there are supplies of trade and catering goods, especially here I am giving an emphasis on tourism and hospitality at the moment where we expect rescue solutions, or rescue money, that there are means bars, restaurants that work all night, that is one technical, practical question, it may seem banal. How these people, in the middle of the night, are going to move from one reckoning to the next, should technically give instructions, see how it's going to be done. What to do with the stay of hotel guests who are now in 2, which will be in 2 periods, which will be half a year's vacation at one rate, half a year's vacation in the second rate? How will they be calculated and how? What will happen to the paid advances for hotel accommodation? How do we explain that to those who have paid that we have an increase in the tax rate, that it is now not one more, but is increased by 4.5, 4.6% as real as the VAT rate actually increases. And secondly, let me warn you that the term of 1.8 is when the biggest crowds in tourism, when people work from morning to dark, therefore the catering facilities of all the legal persons involved in tourism will also have technical problems to point to. People are already wondering how they're going to do it, the state will be normally zealous, they're going to ask for a payment, etc., but I'm asking you to prepare instructions to take care of these entities that I've been talking about, that we're not talking about all the other legal entities that are paying, which are in the VAT system, which are going to have to do with this VAT and those that they're paying on the invoiced value and that they're then waiting for and how the payments from, that from the state, I heard from my colleague Maria that it's not just, that it's not the state generator, but that they're also debtors to the state. I would immediately ask a rhetorical question and what we did to those debtors of the state. So sooner or later, we're going to have to start acting in harmony with the good master and the good master's manners, because if not otherwise, what's going to be, and it's not going to be good, I guess it's clear to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38211	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38212	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will also remind you of the past, much closer than the one where you spoke to Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec and I fear far less pleasant. I'd like to say the following. I would like to stress that the current government has received trust from Croatian citizens, among other things, on the promise that it will not raise taxes. In fact, HDZ was scaring Croatian citizens that if the SDP received power, new taxes would be introduced. Yeah. The SDP was talking about taxes, but what taxes? We talked about dividend taxes, capital gains, property based on which a large number of Croatian citizens make huge property benefits, and does not pay a lack of taxes. It's about interest on savings, rents for residential and business premises, etc., etc. Our proposals for taxation were based on the constitutional provision that everyone in Croatia must contribute depending on their economic strength. So whoever has more needs to contribute more to the participation of the tax burden. These tax revenues would also partially finance healthcare, and health contributions could be reduced. And that is what we proposed, which means that the labour price would be reduced, and that would contribute to the greater competitiveness of the Croatian economy, which is extremely important in a maximum-enhancing competition. So, the SDP had a round-up concept, we had a goal. All of our legal proposals were aimed at strengthening the economy, so to the safer future because the economy itself can provide such a future. And what does the current government do? What's their concept? Look at the wonders, they do exactly what they believe they will never do, introduce new tax burdens or increase existing ones, as is the case with VAT. In doing so, it is important to highlight the purpose of introducing tax duties. The collected fiscal resources will not be channelled into the economy, but will cover budget gaps and buy social peace. It's not a concept. It's an instantaneous reaction in all sorts of chaos, verse and confusion, because cutting the tax knows everyone. Government is expected to be much more. The government is expected to have a meaningful policy for the benefit of all citizens. In fact, we should remind ourselves much more of the words of Ante Starčević here at the entrance to this assembly which reads: "The right state is not only good for man, but it is always good for everyone." The current government boasts that most of the state budget is leaving on the social side. That's true. But that's not a fact of praise. It's a fact of regret, it's a fact of concern. Because that means that this government has made much of the Croatian society dependent on itself, on the state mangers. In return, she certainly won the faithful voters. Such a policy where the state is its own goal and where citizens live on the social side, because the incompetent government did not know how to create conditions for them to live on their work and on a reasonable salary, such a policy has no future. The Eskimo proverb says, "Give the man a hook and teach him how to fish so he can take care of himself. Don't give him the fish, because he'll always be addicted to you." And there is actually a very clear, very obvious line of separation between SDP policy and the policy of the current government. On the one hand, taxes in the function of encouraging the economy and, on the other hand, encouraging both consumption and social dependence and advocacy to the electoral body. This prime minister-led government is actually blackmailing citizens by saying that it is better to receive both lower salaries and pensions than not to receive any salaries and pensions. In principle, take or leave such an ultimatum is, in fact, a fundamental thread of leadership in the model of the rule of this government, a threat so rule. The VAT increase will increase the prices of products and services by several percentages, which means higher inflation, a fall in purchasing power, a higher tax ejaculation and consequently lower revenues to the state budget. It's a blow primarily to the citizens' standard of living, but collateral sacrifice will also be a state register due to the boomerang effect. Because if the purchasing power of citizens falls, it can hardly grow, or the state budget increases. That's why this law can't possibly be an anti-recession measure. The bill concludes that the implementation of this law will not require additional funding. The state may not need additional funding, but I am sure that taxpayers will also have technical problems, and financial expenditure related to the operation of this law, if for no other reason than the change, or upgrade of software. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38213	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. He's gone. Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović. She's gone. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanac. There isn't. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38214	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Since you're surprised at that application, I think you're right to wonder that we are even discussing this late and night on this important and important subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38215	I'm not surprised at the application.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38216	In fact, when VAT has been introduced in the first place and whenever VAT is involved, it is a challenge for citizens and citizens to know what MPs think about the subject, what individual representatives think about the subject, what a single representative who comes from a particular electoral unit thinks about the subject. I don't think it's appropriate first of all, but I know that we're in a tight spot with the time that it's an extraordinary session, but it's not appropriate to talk about such an important subject in such a late hour. The situation we've come to is catastrophic. The level of public, or foreign debt has reached a level that represents one of the main problems for Croatia's future. Creditors don't ask whose debt we all owe. All our arguments, all your arguments don't drink water, and they're not exactly the Minister of Finance's statements that you're in charge of economic growth, which led to unemployment. There is hope, however, and the only answer to this crisis is the change of government. As the index said a few hours ago, the one who doesn't know where, who got us into all of this, who first lost that security card, I guarantee you with my name that we will cut taxes, that we will increase economic growth, that we will introduce Croatia into the European Union. There's no longer that card in circulation, and now he's gone. I see you agree with that, and there's nothing more to say. So that's what we agreed on. Now that we can do so that things don't really go this catastrophicly. And on the trail of this short list of yours and the memories of this one spirit of community when a lot could have been done and it was done, but then again there was someone third who was ruining happiness, so that money went back to where, in that safe original idea of yours, Mrs. Dear Zgrebec shouldn't have gone. So, first of all, it's not bad for that doctor. So before you give any therapy. ... First of all, the most important thing is not to hurt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're saying this is an anti-recession measure. All the experts are telling you and there is no need to be a special expert to know that this is no anti-recession measure, quite the opposite. It will challenge, cause further recession and recession movements to deepen. In fact, firstly, competitiveness will be reduced, the tax ejaculation will increase. A gray economy, which is normal in situations like this. You're pushing, but then the citizens will come to that. But when the deepest crises are, that's what happened. The state has imposed taxes on those poor people who are more afraid of the state and those who don't care, not the plum state and do virtually whatever they want. That's how the state owes millions and millions and nothing to anyone. You're not trying to collect that debt. So you don't mind them. But that's why the poor girl's charge is for the most faithful and obedient. And that's why he imposes like this. It's not fair, it's not fair, and we're gonna change that. We're going to introduce a tax and what is needed and I think the majority of citizens agree on that. Taxes pay those at the end of the day it's our constitutional decree that has the most. And that kind of tax should be introduced. So here by arguing at this late hour of the night, we here are discussing as some kind of administrative measure. On a forest plot or more north or south, eat which pine, though I think these are important and important issues. And what's going on with this particular increase? Mrs. Kosor gathered the producers and they swear to her with honorary pioneering that she will not raise. So, you talk to people like that like this and you ask them what. And who asked the citizens? And I even believe that the manufacturers here is a fellow Maric saying on behalf of the HDZ club that it is obvious and that most likely even producers will not raise prices. Because it's in the interest of our producers and sales. And it keeps jobs, etc. and everything that goes with it. But he expressed concern that the merchants would do the same. And no doubt, they can't wait for that. Because that's what you see the famous thing that someone said yesterday or the day before yesterday, or yesterday, the crisis is a challenge. Well, for them, it's a challenge. That's why the crisis isn't a challenge. Here they were looking forward to the hunt in the blurry. So the theory of shock. They can't wait for an earthquake, a flood, and that's why in the Penal Code there are particularly serious crimes that take advantage of difficult situations, steals in war, steals from the dead from the wounded. So in the accidents. After '45. These were the most dangerous crimes, exactly who took advantage of this difficult war situation. I'm sorry there wasn't a situation like this after the '90s. So after every war. No matter what nature he is. We're not talking about this right now. We're talking about exploiting war troubles. They went to a court of law like that. They went to a court of law. So this bill on VAT increases is indeed unfair. He's unfair and he's hurtful. And you'll see that very soon. So it's obvious that the government has no vision of how to get out of this situation that she's gotten us into, there's no strategy and these are these short-term measures, let's survive another day. So this is essentially one proposal for despair, so let's continue this agony before the final collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38217	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38218	Now that we're going in detail, it's about the structure and the way the VAT is accounted for. As the term value added tax says it is paid in tax cycles only on added or newly created value and manufacturers will not, certainly will not raise the price because they have a higher VAT rate because they calculate VAT and have to pay it by reducing it by pre-tax, so from what they bought raw materials, they get a service etc. It doesn't affect them, I said VAT is in industry, services are neutral tax. It's a tax paid by the end consumer. In other words, when traders form a retail price, they only charge taxes. When they form a retail price which means 100 if they're going to charge taxes only 22% means they have to cut their margin, and they're certainly not going to do it. They'll do it in the first week until they get better, until they make an inventory, until a new order comes in and a new contingent on the shelf. Then they will calculate, at their retail price they will account for 23%, which will then increase that ultimate retail price for consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38219	The reply to Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38220	So there's no doubt that's the case, but there's something else I'd like to add, which I think is important right now at VAT collection. So, it's those who pay him, and any of these structures that my colleague Zgrebec mentioned in the unsustainable situation. It's an imposition of VAT which is paid by an account without it being paid and at a time of inequitableness, at that time indifference how then to even pay a bigger VAT. And the state is the source of the indifference generator, but it doesn't care about its debtors or its creditors, and she has raised her hands from almost the whole thing. And this is just going like some kind of synergy locomotive until we see that it stops, but fortunately it stops so that we don't crash all together somewhere. But I think it's this force that's been pushing her since 2003, right at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38221	Final review of State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38222	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Reply to the esteemed representative, Mrs Pusic. The 0% rate, the 10% rate remains still according to the law as it was, only the general rate from 22 increases to 23%. And as for the payment and non-payment of accounts, those who have not paid the bill take advantage of the same pre-tax. Therefore, as far as the state is concerned, there is no gain because they all take advantage of the tax and yet some do not pay it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38223	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. The extension is tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-28-0.u38224	We move to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 416. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the draft law amending the law on value added tax, with the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by most votes, 78 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 27 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue the 13th extraordinary session with point 6. Proposal for a law amending the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, with final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 417 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the sessions. Does the Proposer's representative want an extra one? Yeah. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
