ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28253	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all and open the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader, Vice-President and Vice-Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a record of the 8th session of the Assembly at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 8th session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. In the draft agenda under points 1 to 5, I have been informed that this point 5 will go to first reading, so it will not go by emergency procedure, with the consent of the Government. Points 7, 10 to 12 and 27 are set out the laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed. These are: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Electronic Trade, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 275, point 1.; Proposal for a law on illicit advertising, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 280, point 2; Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 282, point 3; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the takeover of stock companies, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 279, point 4, point 5, goes into first reading, so we skip. Furthermore, the proposal for a law on the confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime, with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 281, point 7.; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 272, paragraph 10, Proposer Vladimir Seks; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Area, Regional Self-Government, NN No. 125/08, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Article 273, point 11, Proposer also representative Vladimir Shex; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Local Region, Regional Self-Government, NN No. 109/07, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 274, paragraph 12, Proposer Vladimir Seks; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 266, point 27., Proposer of Representativeplatnimir Mršić. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Here you go, Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28254	Mr. President, we have an objection to point 27, Proposal for a Law amending the laws on county, city and municipality areas in the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. 266. We don't think we need an emergency procedure, so she can go into normal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28255	Thank you. Any other objections? Please, if there are no objections, let's get involved, let's go to the vote. Let's see the quorum. Please, let's get involved, because there are a lot of unplugged ones here as we can see. Proposal for a law amending the Law on electronic trade, with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 275, point 1. Please, let's get on with it. I'm sorry, these three first, so points 1, 2 and 3 are not voting because P.Z.E., so there's no need to vote on urgency. Point 5, I have a notice that there's been some sort of agreement that this point goes to first reading. Is that what the government... Thank you. So point 5 goes into normal procedure as first reading. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the takeover of stock companies? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Let's get on with it. Or if he has a proposal to make it... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act on the takeover of stock companies please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? It's unanimous with 113 votes. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime? There isn't. Who's for emergency procedures please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? There isn't. He accepts a unanimous emergency procedure with 113 votes. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb? I think these are some technically clean laws we're adapting. If there's no one for an emergency procedure, would you please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? An emergency procedure was adopted unanimously with 113 votes. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, No 125/08, “The National Journal”, so published in the National Journal. That's the one. Anyone have any objections? There isn't. Who's asking to raise your hand for an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Unity 113 votes. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government? It refers to the Law of the “National Journal” No 109/07. There isn't. Who's for emergency procedures please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? 113 unanimous. As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrija Hebrang made an observation that this law should go into normal, regular procedures. Therefore, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law of the Areas of Countys, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia which is not subject to an emergency procedure but to a regular procedure. Who's in for an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? 41 for, 72 against. So this law doesn't go into emergency procedures, it goes into regular procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established, and I would, in accordance with Article 205(2). The Rules of Procedure should publish the established agenda. I suggest in accordance with our already tradition that if you agree that I do not read fully but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as I read in the draft agenda, noting that point 5 is going on a regular basis and 27 is going on a regular procedure, in the first reading. Do we agree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28256	Ladies and gentlemen, I will propose on the basis of Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure supplementing the agenda. And allow me, given that most of the agenda points are an emergency procedure, not to read this list of 21 proposals, but to plead out on urgency. I stress that the draft law amending the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products, with the Final Proposal for Law, first and second reading, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 283 and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. In point 290(2), they are in line with the European Union rules, and we do not vote on the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws. Let's see the quorum first. Please, let's get on with it. Please, let's get involved because I see we have more MPs than we've applied for. 96, so we can move on. I ask if any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the law on the obligations and rights of state officials, P.Z. No. point 3 is replaced by the following: There isn't. We're going to the vote. If we vote hand-to-hand or if we vote, it'll go around faster. Please, who's in charge of an emergency procedure for P.Z. No. The 299 I read? Thank you. Against? A unanimous 98 vote for it. Does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on spatial planning and construction, P.Z. No. 291. Point four is in the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28257	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. So here I am not reporting for each of the next 17 points, on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say that we are aware that these 17 laws, which are proposed under the emergency procedure, must be passed because we are about to be disbanded and we need to ensure the normal functioning of the units of local and regional self-government. The election is at the door, and the election campaign is on fire. Here's yesterday, Prime Minister Sanader, with his world in Rijeka, had a burden on the budget of a real HDZ pre-election pass. In the SDP, we do not agree to such an emergency procedure, because if we agreed to an emergency procedure, we would in some way be rid of the ministers of the Croatian government of responsibilities for unhappiness over the past period since the amendments to the law on regional (regional) self-government had to be amended because it was known that these laws had to be amended. Nothing happened. He's been waiting for the last minute. Now we're being pushed into a kind of stampede without a professional analysis being done without the consequences of these laws, without consulting the City Association. Therefore, we have one clumper, and we in the SDP do not agree to be participants in such an emergency procedure, because it will happen that after the adoption of these laws and the application of these laws, we solve the problems after the elections, not the problems of citizens, but the problems that these laws, which are not in time, will bring. So, all of these 17 proposals are evidence of unhappiness, inability and irresponsibility of the government and ministers when it comes to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28258	Can I, did I get the right idea that you're making an observation of all these 17 laws by emergency procedure? Thank you. Mr. Trailer, because this is either on behalf of the club or are you going on behalf of the club? I don't know what this is about. I asked if anyone had any objections to the emergency procedure, it's not about anything else. As Mr Jovanovic commented on the urgency of the procedure, we believe it is the club's position and there is no need to discuss it further. Please, nice! Please, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on spatial planning and construction, P.Z. 291 which opposes an emergency procedure by the SDP Representatives' Club. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? The emergency procedure was accepted by most votes, 73 votes and 31 against. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the municipal economy, P.Z. No. 293. He's got a SDP counseling club. Any other clubs? There isn't. I would like to put the motion to pass this law by an urgent procedure that opposes the SDP Representatives' Club to go through an urgent procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. This emergency proposal was adopted with 73 votes for and 33 against. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Social Incentives, P.Z. No. 298. Point six is in the proposal. He's got a SDP counseling club. Is there anyone else? There isn't. I'm putting this bill to the vote so this law can be passed by emergency procedure. Who's in favor of urgency? Thank you. Against? The emergency procedure was accepted by most votes, 73 votes against and 33 against. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, P.Z. No. 287. Point 7 of the proposal. He's got a SDP rep club. Is there another club? Or individually? There isn't. I'm putting in place this motion for the urgency of the voting procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? The motion for urgency of the procedure was accepted by the majority, 74 votes in favour and 33 against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Reconstruction, P.Z. No. 300, point 8. Besides SDP, is there any other club or individual? There isn't. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? The proposal was accepted by 74 votes in favour and 34 against going into emergency proceedings. Any of the representatives or clubs, other than the SDP, have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending the Law on Property and other real rights, P.Z. 301, point 9. In the proposal? There isn't. I am voting on a proposal for this law to be passed by emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. The emergency proposal was accepted by 74 votes for and 34 against. Any of the representatives or clubs, other than the SDP, have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Rental and Sale of Business Space. It's P.Z. No. 285, paragraph 10 of the proposal? There isn't. I am voting on a proposal for this law to be passed by emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. This proposal for an emergency procedure was accepted by the majority of votes, 74 votes and 34 against. Any of the representatives or clubs other than the SDP have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Act on Technical Culture, P.Z. No. 302, paragraph 11. In the proposal? There isn't. I'm putting the motion to pass this law by emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. This emergency proposal was accepted by 75 votes to 33 against. Any of the representatives or clubs have any objections other than the SDP to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the law on fire protection, P.Z. No. 294, point 12 in the proposal? There isn't. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in favor of bringing in an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Thank you. The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 45 votes for and 33 against. Any of the representatives or clubs, other than the SDP, have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Fire Department Act, P.Z. No. 297, paragraph 13 of the proposal? There isn't. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's to apply an emergency procedure, please raise your hand to this law? Thank you. Against? Thank you. I find that the majority of votes, 75 votes, and 33 against the accepted proposal for an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. Any of the representatives or clubs, other than the SDP, have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Protection and Rescue Act, P.Z. No. 295, item 14. In the proposal you have on the benches? There isn't. I'm putting the motion to pass this law by emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. I find that this emergency proposal has been accepted by the majority of the vote, 74 votes against 35. Any of the representatives or clubs, other than the SDP, have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and local (regional) self-government, P.Z. No. 284, point 15 in the proposal? There isn't. I'm putting this motion in motion for an emergency vote. Who's in, please raise my hand? Thank you. Against? The application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law was accepted by the majority of votes, 76 votes in favour and 34 against. Any of the representatives or clubs, other than the SDP, have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, P.Z. No. 296, point 16.? There isn't. I'm putting in place this motion for the urgency of the voting procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. I note that the motion for urgency of the procedure has been accepted by the majority of votes, 76 votes to 34 against. Any of the representatives or clubs, other than the SDP, have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, P.Z. No. 286, paragraph 17.? There isn't. Who is to propose an emergency procedure please raise your hand to this law. Thank you. Against? Thank you. The emergency proposal was accepted by a majority vote with 75 votes in favour and 35 votes against. Any of the representatives or clubs other than SDP have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, P.Z. 288, paragraph 18 of the proposal? There isn't. Who's to suggest that this law be passed by emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Thank you. The proposal to implement the emergency procedure in passing this law was voted on by a majority vote of 75 votes in favour and 35 votes against. Any of the representatives or clubs other than the SDP have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Public Roads, P.Z. No. 292, paragraph 19? There isn't. I am voting on a proposal for this law to be passed by emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. This emergency proposal was accepted by a majority of 76 votes in favour and 33 against. Any of the representatives or clubs other than SDP have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, P.Z. No. 289, paragraph 20? There isn't. I am making this motion for the urgency of the voting procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. This emergency proposal was accepted by a majority vote with 75 votes in favour and 34 against. Does any of the representatives have an objection to the inclusion of the remaining item in the agenda of the session, which is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions, second reading, P.Z. No. 248, point 21 of this proposal? Here you go. Representative Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28259	Your Honor, Mr. President, before we determine the agenda. I've already raised my hand in deciding the urgency of the procedure because it belongs to that group, but here you have not given me your word, so now I'm using this opportunity to point out one objection. Namely, you said for the first few points of the agenda that they had a P.Z.E. mark. and not vote on the urgency of the procedure in these legislative proposals. This group also includes the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products with the Final Proposal of the Law. The SDP club emphasises the urgency of this procedure for two reasons, one is formal and the other is substantive. First formal reason. I have in my hand a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal gains of the European Union for 2009 a document adopted by this Parliament at last session. This law isn't in there. Not that it's not in the alignment plan for this quarter, but it's not even in the coordination plan at all, it's a formal objection. The content of the objection. With this bill, if we discuss it and adopt an emergency procedure, we directly harm Croatian tobacco producers and Croatian tobacco processors. So let's go "and favorite"... Is it the interest of the Croatian Parliament to protect the business interests of foreign companies and to ignore the interests of the domestic company under the conditions of recession and in the conditions of the crisis, especially when we do not have it in the coordination plan, when it is therefore not part of the commitment made to the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it is not part of the commitment made to the European Union, then we wonder whether a commitment has been made to someone else who will benefit from this law and harm Croatian producers and Croatian tobacco processors who will be jobless. I therefore propose, on behalf of the SDP Club, that despite the fact that this law has a P.Z.E. code. We are voting on an emergency procedure because it would not be a precedent. We've had cases like this around here. We've also taken off the emergency procedure from the laws that have P.Z.E. a mark if that was a valid reason. There's more to this than justifiable reason. Well, if we're going to have to raise excise duties on our local tobacco, so let's not do it in an emergency procedure if we don't have to. So let's extend it to some longer term.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28260	Explanation of the law, you've made an observation. And I think enough time has been spent to explain your proposal to go into a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28261	I care terribly about Mr. President to encourage responsibility and a party in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28262	Please. Thank you very much. We heard your proposal, and that proposal will be addressed to the government. And this is in line with the Rules of Procedure's voted emergency procedure. If the government changes its position and this law goes into regular procedure, so will it. Otherwise, the establishment of the agenda is in accordance with the rules of procedure and we have established that these first two items of the agenda have entered by emergency procedure. Your remarks will be forwarded. Thank you. Since there is no objection to the inclusion of this latest Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturb in Sports Competitions, I find that the addition of the agenda has been established as we have here, please do not read all these laws again as we have voted here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28263	Please quorum. Thank you. 95 present representatives and representatives. Ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 9th session with points: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 307 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 305 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Hosting Activity, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 306 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 308 1. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Peace Operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA" 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 303, Proposer: SDP Advocacy Club 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 304, Proposer: IDS representative club 1. Increase in violence among young people in the Republic of Croatia, Proposer: SDP club. 1. Proposal for a law on the approval of the North Atlantic Treaty, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 309 1. Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008 1. Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2008 1. Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial spent for 2008. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, P.Z. No. 307 points 1. of this agenda supplement? Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28264	The SDP club opposes the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Moreover, the government has neither realised a 10-day-old statement that it will raise salaries to jumping judges and state lawyers, and now it is passed by law by means of an emergency procedure in order to reduce salaries for judicial officials and, by the way, be it contrary to all international and European conventions on the position, role and status of judicial officials, they say. and the judges and the state's attorneys.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28265	Thank you. Mr. Andrija Hebrang on behalf of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28266	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Democratic Community Club opposes the urgent procedure of point 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code with the Final Proposal of the Law. The explanation is as follows. We believe that the proposed solution requires a comprehensive debate that cannot be brought in just one reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28267	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, any of the MPs. I'm putting it to the vote. Application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, with the opposition of the SDP Representatives Club. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28268	Mr. President, we're proposing a vote by hand because not everyone has a key.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28269	Thank you. Who is in favour of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law against the Club of Representatives of the SDP? Please, we're counting. Thank you. Against? Thank you. This proposal for an emergency procedure was adopted by 73 votes in favour and 30 against. So, most of the votes. Any of the representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, P.Z. 305 points 2? There isn't. I'm putting this motion on the urgency of the procedure. Who would please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? 103 votes, so unanimously accepted this emergency proposal. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the catering activity of P.Z. Number 306 point 3? There isn't. I'm putting this motion of urgency to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, this proposal has been accepted. For this point number six. P.Z. 303 Laws amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Mr. Andrija Hebrang's remarks. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of Law P.Z. 303 item 6 amending and supplementing the Penal Code? Thank you. Against? Thank you. The application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law has not been adopted, as 30 MPs voted against and 73 against. Any of the representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the North Atlantic Treaty P.Z. number 309 point 9.? There isn't. Who is to apply the procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? The proposal was accepted unanimously by 103 votes in favour. Any of the representatives have objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 9th session. These are points number 4 and P.Z. Number 308 of point 5. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the P.Z. Armed Forces Point 7(7), point 8, point 10, point 11 and point 12? If there are no ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28270	As we have announced, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we should now vote on the completion of the agenda. I ask the counter to determine the quorum. The president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28271	Mr. President, I suggest we vote hand, we don't all have the keys on us. They didn't know there was going to be a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28272	86 MPs and a representative are in the hall. Okay. We have a quorum. Therefore, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 204 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 204 of the Treaty on the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose an addition of the 9th session agenda to points one. Proposal for amending and supplementing the 2009 State budget of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for amending and supplementing the 2009 financial plans: Croatian Waters for 2009, Croatian Roads for 2009, State Agency for the Insurance of Harmful Roles and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2009, Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2009, Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2009. Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget and financial plans of extra budget users for 2009, 2. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, second reading, P.Z. No. 311 3. Proposal for a law amending customs law, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 312, 4. Proposal for a law on the basis of pay in public services, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 210, 5. Final draft law on quality assurance in science and higher education, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 277, 6. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 258 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the collection and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 314, 8. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to protect against water pollution in coastal areas 2, with a final draft of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 313, 9. Final draft law amending the Law on Cultural Councils, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 278, 10. Proposal for a resolution on the fight against viral hepatitis with a proposal for a conclusion, Proposer: Committee on Health and Social Care, 11. Business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2008, applicant: Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families and 12. Proposal for a decision on the selection of three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Proposer: Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that the draft Law amending the Customs Act with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 312, point 3 and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Taking and Transplanting of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. No. The Commission is in line with the rules of the European Union, and we do not vote under Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws. Rules of Procedure. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the basis of public service wages, bill number 310, is proposed by the Government? Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28273	The IDS Club is absolutely against this 4th item of the agenda that a Croatian Parliament discusses the Law on the basis of salaries in public services. Let the government take on their responsibilities nicely. We are against it, therefore we leave this hot chestnut to the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28274	Thank you. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the basis of pay in public services? Thank you. Against? ... I asked who was against it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 67 for, 29 against. He's going into emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty of Loans between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Water Protection Project on the coastal area II? Please, who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? In agreement with 97 votes, the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law has been established. If any of the representatives have objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 9th session, these shall be acts referred to in points 1, 5, 6 and 9 to 12. A proposal to supplement the 9th session agenda? There isn't. I find that the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28275	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 180 to 184. Rules of Procedure. The current morning is held at the beginning of each session and before crossing to the first item of the agenda. So we move on to asking questions. The first question will be asked by Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28276	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I will ask the question of Justice Minister Mr. Shimonovic. Mr. Minister, in just over 60 days, we will have elections for local self-government units and regional administration units. It will be the second round of elections with the new Law on the Constitutional Rights of National Minorities. And after that, the second round, i.e. before the second round, we note the fact that still one significant number of units of local self-government and the area did not comply with their statutes with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in order and in order to ensure what constitutional laws and other laws guarantee, which is proportionate representation of members of national minorities in representative bodies of those units and also representation in executive bodies. Therefore, during the previous elections, an opportunity has been missed for units of local self-government that did not do so to face legal sanctions now to hold elections and many of these units have not done what is necessary, so I ask you on behalf of the SDSS Club and on behalf of the National Minority Club, which is what the Ministry is intending to do, that this situation in respect of non-compliance with one of the fundamental laws of the Republic of Croatia would not be extended.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28277	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28278	Thank you, Mr. President. This is, however, an important issue of additional weight in the context of the upcoming local elections. The introduction of appropriate amendments to the statutes of local units depends, therefore, on the proportion of minority members in the unit concerned so that they can obtain rights based on the Constitution. However, this includes, of course, defining the number of minority members in individual units. I can say that there is an ongoing government-level inter-resorial activity on resolving these issues both in view of this fact and the fact that this issue is not actually in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice but in the Central Office of the State Administration. A more detailed answer comes in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28279	I thank Mr. Minister for your reply. We understand that we are dealing with a list of voters, but the practice so far is that at least in accordance with the 2001 census some form of compliance with the constitutional law has not been implemented properly. Therefore, we think that the Government, and we did not accidentally ask you a question, although we are aware that part of the responsibility is primarily at the Central State Administration's Office, which despite our repeated demands to do something about it, unfortunately each time missed the opportunity to do so, and therefore we have decided to ask you this question, especially because your ministry is a parent ministry for one of the important chapters of negotiations with the European Union, which is Chapter 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28280	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Tonino Picula's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28281	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, the citizens of Velika Gorica face a huge and unique warm-up in Croatia that the government's decision, signed by you personally, increased nominally by 48% in January, and in reality by almost 120%. Such a gathering crosses the limits of economic endurance. For some pensioners, almost the entire pension goes to heating, while families with young children have to give up their home supplies. My question to you is why did the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or did you personally do nothing to reduce this enormous and unfair collection of heating prices, at least to examine the starting points that led to this gathering? I recall that even the famous government's Commission for Price Monitoring led by Mr Polancec to this day did not show on my inquiry, so I wonder if this relationship to 20 thousand Gorican who depend on HEP Toplinarship would be different if Velika Gorica were not run by a coalition in which the SDP, or that HDZ, is in power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28282	Thank you. Vice President, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28283	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. Of course, the decision you're talking about has nothing to do with who's in power, and especially the fact that there are SDP, HSLS, HNS and DC coalitions in Velika Gorica, that's for sure. You're asking me why I didn't do something personally on the government's decision. As you can see, I signed the Government's decision on the fact that some things had to be brought into line, namely that some things not only of Great Gorica had to be brought into order because you know that the price has not been raised since 2002 in Velika Gorica. So, about the heating you're talking about. However, the question you referred to me I could actually respond and reshape and actually ask why you, Mr. Picula, did nothing after your decision in December 2008 to sign a concession agreement with HEP Toplining. You did not do everything possible to improve the concession contract, to make it good and favourable for the citizens of Velika Gorica. Namely, you signed an unfavourable contract by my court, you could have done a few things, among other things, I'll mention that you signed it for 15 years. So you could and should have done anything to make it a favourable contract for the citizens of Velika Gorica to arrange the clauses in that contract that price does not rise for a certain time. But also that during a certain period of time it is determined through that contract to move that heating to the gas, and not like that, here it is now actual. It's definitely the job of the city administration. So I think you should have done it. You could have started a company that would have cared for that job, which is also one option, because I think that if you started, for example, television and just got the equipment worth 3 million kunas for Gorička TV, that there is definitely money for the establishment of such a company that would lead to the care that prices of heating in the city of Velika Gorica don't cost, that they don't collect so drastically, etc. I would then take this opportunity, here and remind myself that it seems logical that you didn't do it because of the fact, here in the last year, for example, water in Velika Gorica collected 94%, that they collected all municipal disposal services, etc., etc., even a grave fee, garbage etc. So, Mr. Mayor, in conclusion, Mr. Representative, the fact that you have signed an unfavourable contract and that you have, of course, taken it, which is normal as mayor, responsibility, please do not bend it on the back of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28284	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Tonino Picula. It's not an answer. It's a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28285	Of course I'm not happy with the answer, but I'm glad that Mrs. Jadranka Kosor has recognised the authorship of one of the decisions she's heard, I believe not only 20 thousand Grand Goricans who depend on the business and work of HEP Toplinarship, but also all the Great Goricans. Mrs. Kosor, the Headship of the City of Velika Gorica cannot in any way affect the change and application of the decision you have signed and which has almost made life impossible for the Gorics. However, here I am calling for the conduct of the Prime Minister who, in a similar situation, right through the Price Monitoring Committee, appealed not to raise interest rates by banks that are in 100% private ownership, so it worked. I believe that something similar to the Prime Minister, if you cannot personally, or Mr Polancec, will be done in the case of a company that is owned by the Republic of Croatia, and for the City of Gorica, do not worry. At the next session we will make a decision of a heavy 3 million kuna which will make the rest of the utility costs for which the city of Velika Gorican is dependent. And don't be surprised if the Great Goricans and other forms of civil disobedience show what they really think about the conduct of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28286	Thank you very much. I ask the MPs and MPs, please the Ministers, members of the Government to comply with their answers and questions with the Rules of Procedure and not to cross the framework that we have for the Rules of Procedure and to be more precise, applies to everyone. I'd like to ask Mrs. Representative Mariana Petir to ask her own question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28287	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, MPs and MPs. I ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy to Mr Polancec. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, in the energy crisis that recently affected Croatia, and which was the result of a unilateral decision by one country to suspend the gas delivery of all parties in Croatia, the politicians agreed it is necessary to take adequate measures to create predisposition for energy independence, which includes sufficient production of energy and storage, especially when we talk about gas. The often mentioned place in this crisis was the area around my municipality of Great Ludina in Moslavina, where the underground storage of gas is located. Since 2004, INA has had a concession to the storage of gas in the environment, but until today, five years later, it has not paid a dime to the Municipality of Velika Ludina for the mining rent, which was required to do according to the contract and according to the law. INA is derived from the concession contract that your ministry concluded with them is not a prescribed way of paying concession fees, so they decided that the calm souls live on our coat of arms until 2043 until they were granted that concession. Since you have announced several constructions in your performances and around 2, so another gas storage facility I have to say that it will not be possible if this problem we now have is not solved so I am interested in when the payment of the mining rents to the Municipality of Great Ludina for the underground storage area of the gas around because INA acts as a state in the state of Great Ludina municipality and its residents lose half of the municipal budget that could in any way spend on the construction of a freezer, fruit for the entire Moslavina or for the reconstruction of roads or the upgrade of kindergartens and schools. I think it's the environments and residents of the Great Ludina municipality, but it belongs to the entire Moslavina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28288	Mr. Vice President Damir Polancec's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28289	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Madam Parliamentarian, I thank you for your question. As you yourself said for the security of supply to energy, especially gas underground gas storage in Croatia is very important and I would say a strategic question. The strategic issue due to the fact that the difference in gas consumption in the summer and winter months 1 to 8, so we spend eight times less gas in summer months than in winter and that our transport system could function needs to be printed during the summer months into the underground gas storage facility. And before I give you a concrete answer, let me mention that we really think that the separation or purchase of the underground gas storage is a strategic issue, and that enables and actually creates the preconditions for investment in phase two actually in about 2. Before the investment itself, of course, it is necessary to resolve the problems that may have arisen in the past. Therefore, according to the now applicable Law on the mining of underground operations in the underground gas warehouse, mining activity is definitely also a mining activity under the new proposal of the Mining Act. The mining activity fee has so far been paid in percentage of the revenue achieved under the exploitation of mineral raw materials. And if there's some kind of misunderstanding or inadequate interpretation here, we'll really do our best to solve it in a very short time. In the future, that fee will be paid in two ways. Explosion fee and research fees. In this case, when we talk about an underground gas storage facility, it's about an exploitation fee that's going to have two components. They will be paid in part in relation to the busy surface or to the cubicity of the well and on the other hand will be paid in percentage of the exploited surface. In the case of underground gas storage, this is only compared to the volume of underground space used for gas storage. I propose that we organise a special meeting where he will get acquainted with the details of which so far there has been no payment of this fee but I note that the compensation for the mining activity of the fees paid to the state budget and the state budget is due to the units of local self-government. I believe we can resolve this issue. As I have said under the now applicable Gas Storage Mining Act, it is part of a mining activity and belongs to the right to compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28290	Thank you. Mrs. Mariana Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28291	I thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, for showing your willingness to solve this problem together because your mining inspection was on the ground and in some way issued a solution that goes in favor of the local community, or the Municipality of Great Ludina. It is quite clear that gas storage is an extremely important issue not only for the Environment or Moslavina but for all of Croatia, it brings with it certain risks and restrictions for the local population, and therefore I really think it is necessary to make greater efforts and that it is also a minimum that should be taken and our duty to make this local population in both the environments, both in Velika Ludina and Moslavina in an adequate way to compensate or reward for the fact that gas supply concerns for all Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28292	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28293	Thank you very much. I'm asking Minister Polancec. Here's the problem, Minister. After one of the meetings of the Economic Council, Prime Minister Sanader announced a new anti-recession measure and said of it: "We respond to the shown dissatisfaction with the pension reform. It's about a second pillar that's more and more showing up as a failure. It is time to change a part of the reform that has not proved good and has not been sustainable for a long time.". That famous statement was immediately reacted to by the stock market, almost broke. The stock value immediately fell by 10%. That means 10% of the value of what the pensioners saved and invested through the funds on the stock market. One thoughtless prime minister's sentence broke out 300 million kuna pensioners for future pensions. This means that every future pensioner lost 250 to 300 kuna in just a few hours and all because of Prime Minister Sanader's statement. They didn't just lose the pensioners. All those citizens who have been urged to invest in shares of Croatian Telekom are also at a loss and are reportedly going to make a good profit on them and not that they have not earned but have increased their loss by the loss caused by the prime minister's statement on the second pension stake. I ask you Ministers, will you, in the interest of protecting the economy you are in charge of, in the interest of preserving any such value of the stock, kindly ask Prime Minister Sanader not to make any further statements by the end of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28294	Thank you. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Parliamentarian, of course I won't, and that's the answer to your question, and I really don't think that even further clarifications should be given. But since you've already structured the question like this, then I have to tell you something. Above all, the structure of pension funds investment should be known to raise such a question. So if you knew her and you had information about how many they were. 22 billion kuna pension funds, actually invested in shares on the domestic market, then you wouldn't ask a question like this. Because of the 22.8 billion kuna of the total assets of pension funds, about 2 billion I see you whispering, I would tell you there's no need to whisper, about 2 billion are invested in domestic shares. Now, in the last few months, so even before this start of the debate on the second level of pension insurance and far earlier, it would be worth having and getting, please, get the investment structure in the last 3 months of pension funds on the domestic capital stock market, the domestic capital market, so you will see that these are minor investments, minor investments that have in no way affected neither the growth nor the decline in stock prices. For your information at this point, there is no stock market in the world that hasn't gone down and down in the last year, the last six months, and that's definitely the result of the financial global crisis. And don't, don't tell me someone won't raise the question, is the Croatian government responsible for the downfall of stock indices in America, Wall Strett, Shanghai or elsewhere. So, as for the second pillar and the start of talks on the future of part two, it had nothing to do with the stock exchange in the Republic of Croatia, and evidence of this is the structure of pension funds investment in domestic shares in the last three months, which I said is minor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28296	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28297	That the prime minister's statement on the second pillar caused the stock's value to fall, all stock analysts and all economists in this country said. You're not the only one who admits that is you and Shuker. It is quite understandable that you do not admit it, because you care more about your position in front of the prime minister than about the stock market and the value of the shares. You can explain what you want here now. Minus 10% is minus 10%. And this example shows that irresponsible statements by the prime minister can harm Croatia's economy and that the prime minister must be careful what he says so as not to cause such disturbances. All right. I doubt you'll fulfill my request, I doubt you'll ask the Prime Minister to watch what he's saying in the future, so if there's a danger of causing damage, then refrain from any statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28298	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28299	But I won't ask...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28300	Let's move on to questions. He's going to ask Mr. Agent Danesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask the agent's question to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development in connection with the adoption and implementation of the rules on the revaluation of long-term leases and concessions of state-owned agricultural land. In particular, Article 75(2) of the Agricultural Land Act provides for the revaluation of the fees mentioned above. And I ask the question, at what stage is the adoption of these regulations, from when will it apply and to what height will the fees be re-valorized? The fact is that in eastern Croatia and Baranja, this income in certain local communities is a significant item in the budgets. So I'm interested in that problem. Or can we know when we can count on it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28302	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, thank you for asking. We are in the making of this Regulation together Ministry of Finance i.e. My colleague Shuker and I and it will be completed as provided for in the law within 6 months of the law being passed. And I want to say for the first time as you've noticed, we've put in place the possibility to prescribe a revolution, which is concrete, means we're going to reevaluate, or determine the values that were. What did we do that for? For a very simple reason, because in the new law, the 50-year lease is also a 30-year concession and a 25-year lease. It is very likely and very possible that certain changes will occur where we will have to re-establish the value and amounts in that part and of course we will follow it. So we've left the possibility in the law, we're going to define the regulation by 6 months as it's laid down in the law, and then there's going to be options if there's going to be significant changes in value to be re-valorated, and in any case, like you said to municipalities and cities, and even the state, they're going to get greater values in terms of both leases and concessions in their budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28304	Thank you. Mr. Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28305	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28306	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Stjepan Fiolić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28307	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Pankretić. Mr. Ministers in the public are said to have increased imports of food and food into the Croatian state. Tell me, for the sake of the public, what is the foreign trade balance of food in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28308	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28309	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, I must say that for the first time in 15 years, I can say that this import and export balance is almost positive. If we were to back this up with very clear facts, because many times in public we were attacked and bombed, I'd say the flat-rate statements about excessive imports of extremely large ones were attacked and bombed, I'd say, by the flat-rate statements of excessive imports, in extremely large imports, food processing products. The particulars speak. For January, imports decreased 38% and exports increased 22%. In other words, in absolute numbers, this means that we exported $128 million and imported $131 million or that the export coverage was 97%. I have to say that here we have certain products that are particularly predicated to this part, which is the export of tuna that has grown three times, the export of cereals that has grown six times. Export sugar that grew twice. In order to say, however, that this is an extremely positive trend, I will point out that last year we ended up with a quantity increase in imports of 1% and last month, so December ended with the coverage of exports with 86%. So it's not just about the individual moon, it's about one positive trend. When we know that the import export balance is total, export coverage by importing 43% in Croatia, then we know that these are extremely positive results and we hope to keep them at this level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28310	Thank you. Mr. Stjepan Fiolić. Here you go. Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28311	Thank you, Mr. President, I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. At the meeting and the presentation of anti-recession measures, there were also discussions on some other measures that were not proposed at the time, you said that the government would develop them, among other things, and that the Government would consider, both by example, most European countries, or almost now, all of Europe's countries, as well as grants incentives, at the workplace of the export industry. This issue has been particularly updated due to the fact that the first month of this year shows that exports of our products have fallen by 35%, and imports have fallen, but it is particularly worrying that imports of capital goods have fallen by 50%, which means that our companies are no longer investing in technological innovation and buying new equipment. Today, according to what we can see throughout the European Union, around the countries are giving jobs from Germany, Italy, Hungary, Slovenia, 3 to 4 thousand euros, calculating that any job saved in the export industry practically means that the state will not have to pay benefits for the unemployed, which in a year actually cost the country more than it would cost to premise, i.e. to directly support the monetary job in the export industry. Since I come from the most exporting city in our country, from Varazdin, our economy is directly, of course, interested in such measures and in the measure I have also proposed, which is a four-day working week, and that on the fifth day of the week following the example of Slovenia, the government helps with 80% of the salaries, I think we could keep about the same level of industrial production as it was up to 9 months last year. So I'd like to ask the prime minister's answer, can the government develop these measures and can we still help our export industry by the end of the year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28312	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28313	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Representative, thank you for this question, because it gives me the opportunity to answer, not just to ask, but to give me a broader picture. First of all, we observe, of course, what is happening in Europe and what is happening in the world. And what we're very little about, I want to say here today, is that all these measures that you've been talking about that are being taken by European countries, but also by some of the leading countries of the Western world assume additional borrowing. That's not what we're talking about. They're assuming a budget deficit. And I'm sure that's one very serious option. We were supporters until yesterday, and this government and this coalition, and in the first and second terms, are reducing the budget deficit to zero. Today, as foreseen by the budget, it was supposed to be 0.8. We are now rebalancing the budget with which we will go to the Croatian Parliament very quickly because the conclusion is one of these anti-recession measures to finish it, to have the government and the social partners finish it somewhere in March. We will therefore come very soon to the Croatian Parliament with budget rebalancing. We will also try to show us here in Croatia and international financial institutions that we can manage the crisis and that we can also adapt the budget to these times. This is the first assumption that in a month or so, in six months, because we don't know what the range and the ultimate reach of the crisis are, we would also do what European and world countries do. We talk a lot in Croatia today, 2.5 thousand euros are being encouraged to buy a car in Germany, so it is being encouraged for this, so it is being given, so in America too. And now no one wonders where, from the additional borrowing, a budget deficit is created. Today you have leading European countries with 4.5% deficits, which had surpluses yesterday. They didn't have any deficits at all. Therefore, it is that we must come to that position, that tomorrow for these needs that you are talking about, we should be further in charge and agree first and foremost in the coalition and then in the Croatian Parliament, after such a proposal, to go to the deficit. By then, I will say what we are doing and I have prepared very precisely what we are doing as support and what we are doing as support, small and medium, and exporters and others who, above all, have the right under the Investment Encouragement Act, for each new working place, depending on the graduation, get between 1000 and 500 euros and 4 000 and 500 euros. Also, any employer in accordance with this law, if he meets the conditions, can be encouraged to educate his employees. In the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, we are preparing a new programme to encourage exports in this year with 60 million kuna, someone will say not much, but in this situation it is not even small. Furthermore, I will say that we have prepared 120 million kunas especially for those heavy ones, for those industries that are in serious trouble, for the textile, leather, footwear and metal processing industry. Furthermore, in the Ministry of Regional Development we have prepared 60 million for the wood processing industry and this was joined by the Croatian Forests because they reduced the price for wood mass by 150 million kuna, which also goes to contribute to the wood processing industry. And finally for small and medium-sized enterprises planned in the budget this year, 280 million kuna. These are all the measures that will give incentives primarily to small and medium-sized people and of course to those with an emphasis on exports to keep jobs in these times of crisis. Of course, we are considering other measures, of course, that these 10 anti-recession measures that the government has taken and that have come across a very good echo in the public and above all in the professional public, are not the end and that we will consider further and bring new measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28314	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28315	Thank you very much for your answer. It is clear to me that such a thing is only possible to finance from new borrowings, but I don't think we have alternatives at this point, because every lost job costs us more than saving our jobs by direct subsidies. And please, you've mentioned all the measures well, I'd like to ask that measures for textiles, wood and leather industries be, if possible, by Vice President Polancec, at least by 6 months so that people can prepare themselves for production. Last year they were only 12 months old, and that's what's causing them trouble. If the funds are already secured, I don't think there's any reason for us all to make sure that they're not paid by the 6th month together.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28316	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Ante Kotromanović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28317	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, fellow MPs. I will refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. The Hague court is asking the Croatian government for 23 artillery diaries. In Operation Storm, I was in command of the Sinj Task Force. Under my command, I had three brigades, pedestrian brigades each of which had one artillery division. Neither I nor my gunmen nor my commanders know what an artillery journal is. In military terminology, that term doesn't exist. There are plans for the use of artillery, there are contributions to artillery, there are various reports of ammunition consumption after the battle. It's called key artillery documents. The Croatian government initially claimed that the requested artillery logs do not exist, then that they exist but that they are not complete, that it cannot deliver to The Hague what it does not have. But then it turns out he's got them, but someone's hiding them. Not to hide them, but to destroy them. One word, it's chaos or pure amateurism for me. With this kind of action, we only damaged the defense of our generals in The Hague. We also damaged the same Croatian ambitions to join the European Union. The demarch from the European Union has arrived these days, but of course we, or the Government, kept it secret from Croatian citizens. My question is, why did the commanders and the gunmen from Storm mean professionally, you didn't call and ask exactly how the battle was going from day to day. Day one, day two, day three, day four. And what documents we were obliged to keep. Why does the government use this kind of behavior to make fun of all of us, the Homeland War and the whole country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28318	Thank you. Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I'm going to make a very well-intentioned remark or if you'd like some advice. It's not good about anything, especially when it comes to such serious issues, politicizing and here I appeal that none of us do it either when it comes to the Homeland War or when it comes to these documents, especially when it comes to defenders. I'll answer you very specifically. First of all, it's incorrect and it's not true that when the government is talking about these documents, which are coloquially called cannon logs, I agree with you, it should probably use some other term, but it's a coloroquival artillery journal. So neither did the government hide, the government always says the same thing and there is no muttering as one SDP member also recently said about it. The government always says the same thing, and that is the same thing that we fully cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, that this cooperation is our obligation to the Constitutional Law on Cooperation, which was passed years ago at a time when the President of the Republic of Croatia was Dr. Franjo Tudjman, that in this cooperation we are very open and absolutely honest. When it comes to these documents, the government gives what it has. What he doesn't have, he can't give. In a specific case, it took a long time to determine the difference between what the Hague Prosecutor's Office felt was meant to form as a document or documents during Operation "Storm" and what was really happening and what was really coming. We've conducted two internal investigations, one in the Moreh, one in the MUP and established, as you said, that 23 documents existed. We have committed ourselves to finding out what it is or how it is, how it has available these documents, and to supply all available data. This is what the chief Hague prosecutor, Mr Brammertz, has been informed about, and we have very, very precisely explained what it is, which documents and clearly demonstrated our will to repeat, what we have, what we cannot give. It's quite clear I trust you, too. However, I would like to warn you that it is absurd for you SDP gentlemen to warn the government that something should not be hidden, that it is not hiding, because I remind you of some of the times when the indictments that were in the government of the then coalition were kept in the drawer, and that this government, in the past term, showed very clearly everything that came from The Hague, so the indictments at that time. So I don't think you're competent to honor the government for hiding something, keeping something secret or not wanting to give something away. It's final. We're going to find everything we found in the internal investigation to hand over to the D.A., and we're going to do our duty to the end, because I think it would be absolutely and utterly absurd for us to keep anything secret, not to give or to manipulate it. Here, thank you very much and I believe you're satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28320	Thank you. Mr. Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28321	Of course I'm not happy, you didn't answer my question. You seem to answer to the Hague prosecutor... that you're hiding, you're not hiding the documents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I asked you why you didn't invite us to tell you exactly what was going on. I'll just tell you as an example. The Hague is looking for 23 artillery logs, so-called It's a diary. ... The Storm didn't have long-range artillery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're looking for six to seven documents from the Sinj Task Force. We didn't make them my people because we didn't, we dared small artillery. These documents are still required and I want to tell you that you should certainly invite those people up and ask them what was going on and how. You in the Department of Cooperation with the Hague Court don't have professionals who know the subject and who know what happened. And I'm not happy with your answer and I'm asking you to give me an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28322	Thank you. Short notice. The Committee for Local and Regional Regional Self-Government will hold a session today at 14.30 p.m. in the hall "Ivan Mažuranić". And secondly, the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture will be held today, Wednesday at 13:30 in the hall "Stepana Radić" 133/1. Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28323	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members and members of the Government. I refer my question to the Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Marina Matulović-Dropulić. Madam Minister, it is known that your ministry is forming and persistently introducing order into all segments of construction and design. As part of this, at the end of last year, the Act on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction, which aims to ensure quality, professional and responsible performance of design, construction and professional supervision. About a year ago, some of the above-mentioned devouper companies protested the inability to obtain construction work licenses while the ministry insisted on licensing exclusively to companies engaged in the performance of works and have really employed construction workers and experts and all necessary machinery. There was talk that a large number of construction workers would lose their jobs due to the introduction of the license. As we can see, the license has not had such a devastating effect. The companies involved in carrying out the work were licensed and continued to do their job. Thus, before this global crisis, the government has encouraged our construction and design companies to be better organised so that they can be more competitive in the Croatian but also in the European Union market. My question is concrete. Given the current global economic crisis, whether there is a delay in law enforcement and how you assess its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28324	Thank you. Minister Marina Matulović Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28325	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. However, the law is being implemented very quickly. He took effect two months ago. We have already organized together with the Faculty of Civil Engineering at the University of Zagreb consulting in Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka. This is very well done and there are experts who really have to start doing things differently. This law is one of the most important laws regarding the work of construction, since it speaks about how to build, how to monitor and how to design and thus introduce order into this activity. What you're asking about the rule book. The fact is, last year, there were a lot of stories of those who didn't have construction workers and who wanted to force themselves to license themselves to perform the work. Of course, we couldn't accept it, and even in this law that came in as I said two months ago, the rules are no longer in force, because it became an integral part of the law. So far, we have issued 2862 licenses to construction companies that employ production employees to mention 108000. When you add 20% of the director who works on the team, in these construction companies it means that we have over 130,000 employees issued licenses. There's no problem and there's no comment anymore. There are other remarks left, today they are called dewallers that they can't negotiate construction works, they can't because the builders don't. We have enabled this regulation to make certain new categories, meaning which component of the law has enabled new categories of doing business so that some companies or part of the companies that are qualified to do so will qualify for more serious and responsible jobs. We're waiting for these people to report, and of course any of them to ask for a change in their license or that consent, we're going to betray it. There's just one more thing I'd like to mention. You know, it's worrying that in Croatia there are 1669 companies in construction that have no single employee, and we also have 2301 companies in Croatia that have between one and two employees. We know they're not construction workers. Therefore, 3970 companies are not engaged in construction at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28326	Thank you. Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28327	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28328	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28329	I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. I'm not gonna ask him to hire anyone and it's a very short question. I knew that so far we were the only country in the world in which, at the same time, persons can be entitled to a privileged pension. It's the one that's active and the one that's at rest or hibernation. I ask you, is it true that the media announced the other day that, based on a February 2004 opinion, your portfolio, or the ministry of law on these matters, is the right of former members of the government to obtain a full pension based on the year's internship abroad. In other words, the right to two full pensions for the same year of internships was introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28330	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28331	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. We'll answer this question in writing, because I don't know it. But what I know and what I'm going to tell you here is that we're preparing and that very soon there will be a motion to amend the government, and we won't, and I don't think it's right what you said, and here we agree that that MP who's elected but has frozen his parliamentary mandate because he's doing something else and he's changing him to get both of them right to retire. It's not right and we think it should change, number one. And number two. We will also propose to the Croatian Parliament, and this applies to both ministers and state secretaries and all others, we will propose that this pension can be realised after a full term and not after two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28332	Thank you. Mr. Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28333	Mr. Prime Minister, last time I was waiting for your written answer for three months and you didn't answer me but Mrs. Kosor did. I now ask you to give your answer within the business period, the opinion of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship signed on 3 February 2004 on the basis of which the Croatian Pension Insurance Office issued such solutions on the recognition of these pensions. In response, please give me that opinion to make sure that it is true that it exists. And what you mentioned now, as Mrs Kosor wrote, in response to preparing this law, I hope it's her preparation from March 2005, when you formed a working group on my bill. Is that Mr. Prime Minister? And now a new group of experts has been prepared? So they did not please, so they wrote others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28334	Thank you. It is Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28335	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister. I will refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Dr Milinovic. Here, three months ago, Minister, you're here to show us all what the health reform system is. You have explained to us, however, in public this reform, which is quite normal because the health issue is one of the most important issues for every man, has caused different opinions. Three months is how this reform is implemented. Do you ministers have indicators, first indicators of what this reform has brought to our citizens and what it has brought to the health system at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28336	Thank you. Try to sublime it in time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28337	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, three months for such a major reform is one period where we could give some preliminary results. I will also say today and hope to have a press conference next week where I will talk about the results of the reform to respond in some way to the policies on reforms that appear today in the Croatian public. A year ago, a long hospital was 2 billion and 300 million kuna, today it is a billion and 700 million kuna. HZZO was 2 billion kuna long, today it is a billion 170 million kuna. So the total HZZO debt and the hospital was 4 billion and 300, it is now 2 billion and 800 million kuna. The reference prices for medicines saved us the state budget or rationalized 410 million kunas. Remember a year ago, the disease rate 4.2 was reduced by a year to 3.8, which means a savings of 230 million kuna, not only to the state budget, but also to the economy. But these are the financial results of the reform that are a good basis for what is next. What are we, or what have the patients got? Here, I'll say, I won't mention the name, but two medicines that have been said for two years to fit the list of HZZO medicines that the state budget pays for these drugs, these days or this week we'll sign it with the pharmaceutical industry. One of these drugs cost 1400 kunas before the drug reference price, now 400 kuna. From the list b on the list a, so for medicines you no longer have to pay for the surcharge goes 15 medicines. We've introduced six monthly prescriptions. Not only did this improve the availability of medicines to those who need it, but in this way we reduced the writing of 10 million recipes a year, saved if one recipe takes 2 minutes, saved 350 hours a year and the family medicine offices have an hour and a half to two no longer writing recipes, taking care of their patients. And in participation with 6 monthly recipes at the annual level, we saved 150 to 250 million kuna. We have changed the Regulation on orthopaedic aids where we have made it easier for disabled people to access orthopaedic aids and cancer of Croatian health wounds, and we will all agree on that, are waiting lists where we have reduced between 30 and 50%. Here I'll mention only for CT 64%, for magnetic resonance, 31% cut the waiting list, for hip endoprothesis 30%, for heart ultrasound 52%, and this is all measurable data. If anyone doesn't believe, I'm calling again to go to HHZO and check together and check together, or the health department to check that data. And finally, new equipment where we often mention that people who are suffering from oncological, or malignancies are waiting long for radiation, we're going with this new equipment. This recession, indeed, which is one vulnerabilities period in Croatia, will not affect the purchase and renewal of new equipment, and that is something, here is only from a series of data that we have, which we will most likely present next week to the Croatian public. It's a series of data that say that reform goes full windward and gives good indicators.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28338	Thank you. Mrs. Rocksandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28339	Thank you, Mr. Minister. It's important to me what you said because the other day I met one of my fellow citizens who worked abroad for many years. Now she's retired, she's still living abroad, but she's here, you won't believe, back in order to run some tests, to finish some tests because she says, they're much cheaper and faster here with us, and she's our security guard. So, the fact that patients are being cut off, that the reform will primarily go to the patient's stomach doesn't stand. Thank you for these first indicators.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28340	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28341	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government. I'd have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. I'm going to tie myself back to the second pension column, but precisely for the reason that those who belong to that second pension column hear the answer, and also those villains who try to trick the government all the time, as well as the prime minister about that second pension column. The fact is that the problems of the pension column are that they are caused by early retirement leaves, so that in the last 9 years somewhere on average at 29 years of employment is going into retirement, and somewhere in disability at 22 years of employment. As a matter of fact, the problem is certainly another government will have, most likely will have a solution to resolve for 130 thousand of those insurance companies of the second pension pillar who were over 40 years old when the second pension column was introduced and voluntarily joined the pension column, and it has been shown that the 300th pensioners on that pillar have significantly lower pensions than those of the first pension column. So, of course, I'm interested in what the government will normally do to equalise those pensions that leave the second pension column with those of the first pension column? So, will the contributions to the second pension column increase, that's the first? Secondly, will the funds be redistributed, meaning in favour of the second pension stake, which would normally be the pressure on the budget? And the interesting question is, does the government intend to lift that second pension stake and transfer the funds from that second pension stake to the first pension column? So, what does the government intend to do in favour of the insurance company of the second pension stake? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28342	Thank you. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28343	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I'm going to start with the findings you've made, which is the fact that during the 1990s, there has been an increased inflow of new pensioners into the pension system and all this has led to certain structural disorders in the pension system. Unfortunately, today we have only 57.1% of the working population and behind us in Europe according to that criterion is only Malta, Serbia and I think Poland at this point. The fact is, since 1986, we've had 3,68 employees on a pensioner, and today this ratio to a retired 1,42 is employed. That is why there are reasons and arguments about why pension reform has started. The peace reform was initiated so that in 1.1.1999, it continued in the second phase of 2002 by introducing so-called Three-part pension system. What did this three - part retirement system bring? He brought opportunities to those who were only 40 years ago to become bonds of payment 5% of their salary in the second pillar. For those who were then 1.1.2002, between 40 and 50 years of age, it is possible for them to decide whether they want to be bonds of the second pension stake and are like you said about 130 thousand and all over 50 years of age have been released from payment in another pension column. What kind of payment is that? From 20%, therefore, the salary paid in the first pension column until 1.1.2002 from 1.1. 15% still goes to the first pillar and 5% goes to the second pillar of pension insurance. As a result, a large hole was created in the first pillar, a hole that the authors of the pension reform call a transitional cost and the transitional cost will be 15 billion kuna only in 2009. So 15 billion kunas missing in the first pillar will have to settle from tax revenues, which is definitely an additional burden for the Croatian economy. Now, what are the effects of this pension reform, or how much is therefore the property of all those who are paying into the second pillar. I have to say once again, the property of everyone in the second pillar is currently 22.8 billion kuna, but the contributions of pension funds in these seven years are not full of 500 million kuna, and that's something that should also be considered. And the pension fund fee, Regos's fee, and when you add interest paid by the bonds issued by the Ministry of Finance, they're bought by pension funds, then those fees go more than 2.5 billion kuna, and I have to say that these fees are absolutely too high. Now, the three variants you mentioned. In the event of an increase in the second pillar of the first pillar, the transition cost and the large part, respectively, will have to be settled from tax revenues or the lack of money in the first pillar. I don't think that's a very good solution right now. The second option is to increase the contribution to pension insurance in a way that remains 15 in the first pillar and theoretically increases the percentage by the second pillar, which is possible but then again means the burden of the economy. And thirdly, we debated on the Economic Council and suggested that we continue to discuss the possibility of giving those 130 thousand employees who are second pillar bonds on a voluntary basis to decide whether they want to stay or want to relocate to the first pillar and thus increase pensions. So the figures speak for themselves, it's being debated a lot and I hope that soon the Economic Council and then the Government will make the final decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28344	Thank you very much, Vice President. This exposure of yours shows that the government has no intention of abolishing the second pension column and transferring the funds from the second pension column to the first one, as the villains try to show the public all the time and thus intimidate the insurance companies of the second pension column. I think this is the solution that you talked about normally when it's going to be known to the public and that those villains listened to you, too, so they won't repeat it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28345	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28346	Thank you. Your Honor. It's a question for Minister Polancec. Mr. Polancec, the Croatian public, the citizens are really amazed by the government's behaviour in the case of "Suny Hvar". Recently, the government's representatives were in France. You're the one who got the media to talk to Orca's bosses on the occasion. I ask you if you then agreed with them to hand over the share of state ownership in "Sun-Hvar" without any compensation to the group "ORCO" and whether this is another inexplicable concession of Croatian authorities to foreign interests in our country and whether the truth of the public private robbery under a public private partnership company has been revealed until the end. In this case, the citizens of Hvar and the town of Hvar themselves and the Croatian state and all of us in it were damaged. The Croatian public wants to be revealed who is the main player in this French relationship and will you finally give us his name and name here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28347	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28348	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Parliament. MP, let me answer your question, I'm trying to answer your question. So, a partnership in the company "Sunčani Hvar" between the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the French company "ORCO" runs and it should take five years, so until mid-2010. What are the effects of this partnership so far, just some of the effects. For example, big investments have been made so far, they could have been bigger, but please, until now, ORCO has invested its money through the capitalisation of 56 million euros and that is the fact. Of course, part of the investment in the company "Sun-Hvar" was also financed by loans. It is precisely due to the fact that part of the investment was therefore financed by the loans which were to be recovered after the next phase of recapitalisation and the recapitalisation did not occur primarily because of the situation on the capital markets because that capital capital injection was to go in two directions. The first course of course that the recapitalisation participates in the new funds "ORCO" in accordance with the contract. Another direction for Croatian citizens and Croatian institutional investors to participate in capital market recapitalisations. Given the breakdown of the stock market, the decline of activity and free money on the stock market, such capitalisation is, unfortunately, not real at this time. And investments have been made, obligations to contractors exist. And therefore the Croatian Privatisation Fund as a responsible partner together with ORCO is looking for a solution in which to get the company out of the crisis in which it was found. The solution is not in the unconditional surrender as you have called it. The solution is in something else. For the first time, something was presented by representatives of the Croatian Government to all town councils of the City of Hvar, because, unfortunately, communication between the Privatisation Fund, between my ministry and the citizens of Hvar, could not and could not have been established at an adequate level, because apparently, city councilors did not receive all the information that was received by those who came to meetings, and above all the mayor of Hvar. For the first time, therefore, the situation is presented in the company "Suncani Hvar" and the model that does not mean unconditional surrender, but the following is that the company "Sunčani Hvar" founded the daughter "Sirena" and that the company "Sirena" buys the Privatisation Fund in a way to pay the shares of "Sunčani Hvar" and then owns the company as well as some properties that are of interest and importance to the City of Hvar. And so that's the model, and that's the offer that stands and on which the legally elected City Council of Hvar voted with 9 votes for such a model and 3 votes against. There are no surrenders, no exchanges, no target, no such work so far, no work is done. Unfortunately, communication has gone the wrong way again. The mayor's making a veto. I don't know, and I hope you're as legal as I am, so we can talk together about whether there's a legal foothold for disabling the legal decisions of the city council. But in any case, we will continue to seek a solution that is best. First of all, for the company "Sunčani Hvar" all employees, the City of Hvar, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and our partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28349	Thank you. Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28350	My last intention is to defend Mayor Hvar, and I think it exists in Hvar except for this French connection. Did he say no to 25% plus one, so he asked for "siren," so now he's not gonna "siren," but he wants shares when they're secure. I have no intention of defending him. And what the councilors voted like that, Mr. Polancec, voted to save what was to be saved that, if it were to be saved at all, it could be after the disastrous government policy that you led towards Sunny Hvar. So, besides yesterday, you were reacted by the Competition Protection Council, claiming exactly that the government is resigning its ownership of the ORCU, and in return it's not asking for anything. And I wonder how he'll respond. And you can't come to sessions like a cowboy-style gunnero, it's not the Wild West, it's the Mediterranean... Or leave. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government can't behave like that. That's what these people created, and they fight to preserve anything. So the answer has not yet been disclosed by you, yet no one in Croatia knows except you and some around you and your friends... /The speaker has been turned off./... No one knows what the contract says. So I asked you this question in the House, and you refused to answer me as a council representative, either verbally or in writing or in writing. ... who is this genius so he concentrates all his brains in the finger so he squeezes it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28351	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28352	Mr. Polancec, respect at least the institution of the Assembly's representative, so make your contract known.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28353	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28354	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Vice-Presidents, ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. My question is to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. The question is, the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Madam Vice-President, how long since the establishment of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and the children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War has been awarded to this day? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28355	Thank you. Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28356	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Representative. Here is the final competition, i.e. after the last competition that ended relatively recently because first of all, the processing of all the data because it was extremely important for more than 17,000 children. We're done with the job. Ten thousand and 255 scholarships. And here I am pleased to say that the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund for this purpose has allocated 66 million kunas, a little bit more, that it has taken place at the expense of the Scholarship Fund and that the payments have started. Of course to those and that may be good information to everyone who expects it, to those who have signed the contracts, because it's one of the conditions for payment to start. Therefore, it is quite certain that the payment of scholarships to children of Croatian defenders is one of the biggest and most important gains of the Croatian Defence Fund that we formed under the law and in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has paid 7% of the shares of HT in the past term in 2005. So, the most valuable shares. And out of profit, out of profit, out of a third of profits are paid and funds to pay off scholarships. Here I can only mention that from the beginning, since the first year of academic, or school 2006 when more than 9 million kuna were paid for scholarships, and this was equal to 2 thousand 272 scholarships. Over the next year, academic school 7 thousand 45, and here we came to 10 thousand 255 scholarships. So we invest in what we think is most important in knowledge, in children, in young people. With pleasure, I can present the information that more than 63%, slightly more than 63% of the children who had here in the first academic, school year of scholarship, high school scholarships went to colleges, continued schooling, and I believe that these are future doctors, professors, but I also believe politicians and future advocates and that they are children of Croatian defenders through these support, through scholarships those who will lead Croatia in the future. I think it's all in our interest, so here, Mr. Representative, I thank you for asking, and I want the Croatian defenders' fund to survive, as one of the greatest values, and if I can finally take advantage of the occasion because there have been different manipulations, untrue, in fact, the simplest thing is to tell lies. So, to say that the fund is stable, that the fund works, that we, as we know, sold 7% of the shares of the INA, but that way because we sold them at 2800 kuna. This way, we saved the fund, because if we hadn't done it, the value of Croatian defenders' participation in the fund would now be three times smaller. Therefore, since the value is, of course, calculated according to the value of the shares that we have entered, i.e. the assets that we now have. So the property is strictly supervised, it's stable, it's secure and there's no word about anyone with that money, or with that property being manipulated. It belongs to the Croatian defenders and so it will be. And I repeat, the highest value is definitely scholarships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28357	Well, Mr. Peter Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28358	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, I am pleased with your answer, but this is exactly my question being addressed because of those who spoke about the fund badly these days, this fund has just justified its business and I think you and the Ministry have done a very big job, you have support from Dubrovnik to Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28359	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28360	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. My question is for the minister of justice, Mr. Shimonovic. Mr. Minister, the Ministry of Justice is implementing the Anti-Corruption Campaign "Corruption It's Not Me", aimed at increasing citizens' awareness of corruption and the need for more active involvement in fighting corruption. Unfortunately, one commendable activity is immediately completely overshadowed by the intransparent spending of budget money, as all 2.4 million kunas are spent well-knownly playing the Public Procurement Act. The whole project is fragmented into a number of smaller items with amounts that can be given directly by a settlement and thus avoid public tenders. Spending 2.4 million kuna on an anti-corruption campaign does not show by example how transparent spending of budget money shows a complete lack of sense of responsibility to citizens who are simultaneously asked for responsibility to curb corruption. It shows that the Ministry of Justice still does not know what integrity, responsibility and transparent work of civil servants means. Mr. Minister, do you agree with this way of spending budget money in this campaign, if you disagree, will you raise the question of responsibility and against who?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28361	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28362	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As for anti-corruption campaigns, the fact is that it was launched, the fact is that there were questions related to campaign financing, with the way the funds were spent. What simply doesn't agree with your assessment is your assessment that the corruption campaign is completely overshadowed by such enquiries. For example, empirical indicators, such as the number of vehicles that receive specialized segments, police, therefore, office, national office for the control of corruption and organised crime, the number of calls received by the prosecution, the number of correspondence indicates simply that it is a flood, that citizens have responded, recognized the incentive and are ready to engage in the fight against corruption. As far as the campaign itself is concerned, the qualification you used to violate the law on procurement is simply incorrect, it's not an anti-zoonical action. As for your assessment of whether or not it was possible to go to greater transparency there I would be inclined to agree with you. However, I think it is indeed a shame that in questioning an anti-corruption campaign, one amount that is high at 2.4 million kunas is cited as a key problem and the issue of spending it on only one seized asset that is allowed by a new expansion of the possibility of confiscation of assets, only one is enough to ensure 100 years of anti-corruption campaign. As far as spending is concerned, it was really not an objective or easy competition for some segments of anti-corruption campaign, such as selecting a music background, or selecting films. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28363	Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28364	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I'm not happy with your answer, but I didn't say that the law was broken, but that it was a good show of how it could be played out because the Public Procurement Act was played out, because the law on public procurement was played out. And it is tragic that in one action that needs to raise awareness of citizens, we do not realize that no campaign will raise awareness of citizens and give confidence in the system if all other links in the anti-corruption chain are not at the same time strengthened by the police, through the USKOK, the State's Attorney's Office, to the justice ministry. Unfortunately, after the show of Maestro, after reality show index, we got a school example of how to play the Public Procurement Act and not from any ministry, but from the Ministry of Justice. Please write a written reply on the entire financial instruction and spending of funds in this campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28365	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28366	Thank you very much. My question is to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. Mr. Prime Minister, we are faced with negative economic movements, among which, of course, great responsibilities are borne by your government, among a number of negative statistics one particularly bounces. Did you know that at the end of 2008, foreign debt amounted to over 39 billion euros in Croatia? For the first time, the debt is bigger than Croatia's GDP. When we talk about foreign debt, there is no difference between public debt and foreign debt. Creditors don't ask, as you once said, whose debt it is, they just ask how big it is and who will pay it back. And that is why it should be said that your government has put us in a position that every Croatian citizen owes 8 thousand 900 euros or over 66,000 kuna. The growth of foreign debt has also contributed to the country's growing consumption. The state is close to the situation that they won't be able to return the principals of their duties. And now the question. Do you feel responsible as Prime Minister, who has brought the Republic of Croatia into a situation that is close to debt slavery over the past five years?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28367	Thank you. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28368	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I expected from you, since you have begun to profile yourself as one of the SDPs who will be involved in the debate on the economy and we welcome it and I personally welcome it, that you will be very specific. You're not specific. You've made one lie, one I'd say to the government who's guilty of this kind of debt externally, the foreign debt you've made and which is approximately accurate. But that's not true. The government has not only not been responsible for this, but the government has reduced its share of foreign debt, now listen well to this information, you will benefit from discussions when you are on an open or otherwise broadcast. Compared to December 2007, December 2008 we reduced our share, the country's debt in foreign debt from 20.2% to 17.7%. So, of the entire foreign debt, the state was 17.7% represented, and when we took responsibility, it was about 30 percent. Therefore, is the state responsible and can we call the State or the Government because banks, privates, businesses are in charge and then, when they are in debt, then, of course, foreign debt increases... What is it, why the government didn't do anything about it, it's your fault that foreign debt is increasing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's just not true. The government is doing everything to reduce the debt and we have reduced the share of the state in that foreign debt from the initial 33.34% 5.6 years ago to the current 17.7%. Number one. And number two, we all know and yours is such a fine rhetorical question that you asked by avoiding the truth won't go away because we all in Croatia know that this external debt, that it is structured from three packages. One is the economy, the other is private, and the third is the state. And this sovereign debt, I repeat, is reduced in importance. It's reduced if you take the 33. 34% now, we cut it by 50%. 100%. Says the President of the Parliament 100%, depending on how we count. But in any case, we halved him and it is a great success of this government and I am proud of it and I call on everyone else to join this economic and financial policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28369	Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28370	Thank you very much. Of course I'm not happy with the prime minister's answer. First of all, the government is responsible for the overall economic situation in the country. The second thing, when we talk about absolute amounts, Mr. Sanader, 17% of 40 billion is less than 30% of 19 billion. That's what we should know. So the state has increased its duties. On the other hand, I support your 2003 statement when you said there's no difference between public debt and foreign debt. That's what you said back then, I hope you're still standing around. And finally, did this debt that the government has increased over the past five years go to an increase in exports? It's not. In the 1st month of this year, we have a decrease in exports. Did he go into a reduction in imports? It's also not, because we have the biggest foreign trade deficit ever. Did he go into GDP growth? No, we have the slightest GDP growth. This year we'll plan it below 5%. So that money wasn't rationally used. That's what we're complaining about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28371	Thank you. Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28372	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Vice-Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Family, Defence, Intergenerational Solidarity, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you know the sincere concern and attention of your ministry and government for the problems and needs of the defence population, not today, but since 2003. One of the important needs of Croatian defenders is certainly work or employment. The measures taken by the ministry and the government in order to employ the defenders themselves have produced and deliver good results. My question is this. Does the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity support employers who hire Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and what forms of support are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28373	Thank you. Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28374	Thank you very much. Madam MPs, I thank you for the question because here is the opportunity for me to say something about the Croatian Defence Ministry's programmes, but also about how the overall budget of the ministry and the anti-recession measures that the government recently adopted, i.e. how these measures are included in our ministry's work on the employment of not only Croatian defenders, but also the children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, because they are also the group we care about. I will say the information that I think is interesting and that it is well remembered, that through our employment measures, we have hired about 10 thousand Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders over the past five years. What you're asking is one of the measures we're going to focus on this year. Why? Because of course we want the defenders to continue to work in quality, but that we also contribute through the employment measures of Croatian defenders in our ministry, to support employers who will in any way employ Croatian defenders and their children. For this measure, we predicted a large amount of about 8 million kuna this year. Supports vary, so they depend on the number of Croatian defenders employed by the employer. They range from 45 thousand to 135 thousand kuna. And here I can also announce, since we are going with these measures in this very spring period, I can announce that half this month and call the competition. Of course, all the measures are implemented through the competition, meaning the competition for this measure. And I believe that even through the measure that we have predicted, the tender will precisely be announced on the 18th of this month, that we will hire, we have foreseen about 200 defenders, maybe a little bit less or something more, but we certainly expect the response of employers who will want to hire defenders. We have other measures. All measures are better put forward in recent years and despite our commitment to restrictions in the ministries, but for these programmes we will certainly, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, continue to provide additional funding because employment is also one of the priorities for this part of the Croatian population not only of the ministry that I am headed, but of the Government as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28375	Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28376	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your reply. I sincerely believe that employers will recognise these significant support for the employment of defenders, that this will help reduce the number of unemployed defenders. But also, these support will contribute to the successful business of employers in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28377	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28378	Your Honor, Mr. President, I will ask my question to Minister Milinovic. Dear Mr. Minister, in a paid ad in a two-number "Vjesnika" of 7.3 and in response to this agreed question you listed a wonderful picture of health care at this time, in an ad, an interview that is on two sides. “Vjesnik” is a state, so you don’t wonder why I say paid ad. You've listed a wonderful picture. The waiting lists are halved. The directors work phenomenally. My colleagues in primary health care are about to sign these famous anex contracts. All our roses are blooming. All is well only the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not aware of it. And Mr. Minister, I'm not going to see you now, I'm not going to ask you a question that you expect me to ask you. Before I ask the question, I'll remind you that you've forgotten a group that obviously doesn't matter to you and that's causing you problems. You have forgotten our citizens who suffer from infertility, because infertility is a disease and need medically assisted fertilization. Your waiting list is too long. 1000 and a half couples are waiting for medically assisted fertilisation in Croatia at the moment, waiting over a year and leaving outside Croatia. They're not in your statistics. You've erased them obviously because they're tearing your stats down. Before you answer my question, I would like to remind you of something that was happening in Parliament on 21.11. this year, quote, last year. "As the Minister announced at the beginning of the year, the Government will come out with such a proposal at the end of the year and what I said here I did not say that before the Croatian Parliament we will be out in 10 days, but that in a public debate the proposal will come out within 10 days." And here's a question. You promised the bill by the end of 2008. Are you aware that from the moment the SDP proposal was rejected, only because the SDP suggested it. In Croatia, more than 500 children could be conceived and born this way. But you have decided to worry more about the church's position than about the well-being of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28379	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28380	Thank you very much. I'll start from the back, from the end of your question. We'll take good care of the church's position, but we'll try the new Law on aided insemination to get as wide a consensus as possible. You'll agree with me, because I agree with you that too long waiting lists are for those who, because they can't start naturally, and that's the first time that you and I agree. This paid ad, I haven't been in the media in ten days, so you said I was on ice. So now that I'm doing the interview, I'm paying for that interview, a paid ad. And this pharmaceutical thing, I know it's touching you personally a little bit that we've reduced the drug price reference prices and we've saved about 410 million kunas, but that's what we're talking about. So I agree with you. The law is very, very sensitive. We need to get him in as wide a consensus as possible. He is preparing and we will also talk to SDP representatives as I wanted to discuss the reform of the health system. You didn't accept it, but here I'm going to try to get around this new law and we can certainly hear your opinion, so if you want from your bill. Where there are good things we will implement into the new law that we will pass this year. What the Secretary of State said I really don't know, but I'll check it out during the day. I trust you on the phonogram, but I'll check with him what he's been saying here, yes, yes, in Parliament and we'll go here according to the new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28381	Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28382	Well, there's an expected answer. You're attacking instead of hiding behind numbers. I'd ask the ministers to forget my private situation. Don't mention my wife. Yeah, you mentioned my wife for mentioning the contest. And finish the contest and finally admit that you don't attack at a private level. And besides, my wife won that contest, so please don't mention my situation again. And what I would ask you to do is to implement the reform in a way that you do not expose people to mobbing and restore dignity to Croatian patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28383	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28384	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable Members and members of the Government. I would like to refer my question to Mr. Shimonovic, the Minister of Justice. They have recently started the work of jumping courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek, which the quality of the trial should bring. Because I believe that they are not only a new form but they will give new contents to the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28385	Thank you. Mr. Minister Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28386	Thank you, Mr. President. They should make progress in terms of speed, determination and expertise in trials for acts of corruption, or organised crime. What's the speed? In that the new obligation of these newly created jumping departments to the 4 County Court is that within 7 days, an investigative judge should be scheduled for the first hearing, and when a judicial indictment has been brought up, the President of the Council should therefore hold a hearing within 7 days. It's incomparably faster than anything we've had so far. As far as greater determination is concerned, it is simply now about judges who reported themselves because they had to pass security checks. This is the first time in the history of our judiciary that judges have agreed to security checks, and those who have been fully prepared to expose themselves to first-degree checks, namely the most radical security checks that our law allows. And finally, I think it's going to be about significant progress from expertise. Why? First, it's a specialization. These judges will primarily deal with corruption and organised crime. These are one of the most difficult cases in view of the most frequently large number of indictees, the complexity of the proceedings, etc. In addition, these judges will undergo a specific education, an education that will make them even more capable of facing all the challenges their difficult tasks pose to them. And finally, another element that will make enhanced expertise and further education very valuable. It is the powers that these judges have under Article 82. The penal code, which is that with a decision on punishment, will also have a broad possibility of taking illegally acquired property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28387	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28388	... Mr. Minister, as well as from your presentation, that jumping courts will achieve both the purpose and the purpose for which they are established. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28389	Thank you. It's Mr. Zdravko Kelić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28390	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Pankretić. Mr. Minister, these days the spring seed begins, a time that is certainly the most difficult for Croatian peasants because it requires great investment, requires great money and if the seed is not carried out in agri-technical deadlines and if the seed is not well done, we will certainly have big problems during this year. Without the help of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is certain that this work will not be able to be done well and quality. If we take the problems to be given and the prices of the repromaterials, especially the fertilisers in the investment item is the largest among our peasants. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, what does the Ministry of Agriculture do to facilitate this spring sowing and that our peasants can do this job as best as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28391	Thank you. Mr Pankretic, Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28392	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Right, you're right, I think it's about time and deadline for the ministry to do whatever it takes to get ready for this spring sowing. I will stress that without further ado, what is most important is to get as much money as possible to the Croatian village, to get as much money as possible to our farmers. We are taking full account of this and I will say that so far we have paid more than 550 million kuna of aid and subsidies that go directly to our farmers to allow them to prepare as best possible for the spring seed. I stress this because it is time to pay off the support of 31.5., so we believe that in the coming time we will pay more than 800 million kuna by rounding up that billion and 200 million kuna payments that should be for those cultures harvested in 2008. According to our data, somewhere around 425 thousand hectares should be sown in the spring seed and I must stress that our agricultural producers are also preparing rapidly in that area. The one where we take care of and where we have done a lot of negotiations so far, and you have mentioned how to obtain a re-romitarian. I think we're all aware that almost 50% of the cost of seeding is artificial fertiliser and at a series of meetings that we had with Petrochemy, we were able to agree on what I would say is most important at this point, which is that the payment of the artificial fertiliser itself is extended to 4 months, which will allow, especially the organisers to get into production with as much as possible, and we also agreed that for the immediate payment of the discount is 4%, so I believe that this will also contribute to making this spring crop successful. With all these measures, here we are in daily contact with our farmers and I must say that I am optimistic about the spring seed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28393	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28394	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hope that this second part of the incentive will come to the peasants as soon as possible because money is necessary, without it it will not be able to build this job quality. I believe it won't be the last deadline of 31.5, but it will come long before that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28395	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28396	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm asking the question of Minister Calmetti. Many county roads in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately at this time, are in critical condition according to both European and Croatian laws and standards, almost 1,000km of county and local roads should be closed at this time because of their unquality, or condition in which it is located. For years, the accumulated lack of funds available by the county road administrations on one side and the extremely sharp winter with many snow and ice this year have done so that this time is actually required and it takes more than 50% of the resources than the annual average for the maintenance of local and county roads. We know that road maintenance is financed from those famous 60 limes per litre of fuel, also from motor vehicle registration fees, but it is less known that the state roads collect 50 limes from it, and the county ones that have far longer, the more complicated network only get 10 limes. At this time, the deficit, hence the difference between the necessary funds for the immediate recovery of the county and local roads, is somewhere as much as 2 billion kuna. So I ask the government to do something to understand how important this problem is because it is something that directly endangers the local economy and safety in road transport and naturally inflicts great damage on insurance companies? And in 2009, will you help the county road administrations to resuscitate this situation and not welcome the tourist season in such a catastrophic situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28397	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28398	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, I can tell you that I'm pretty much in agreement with you guys. So, I agree with what you've brought to your attention, which is, therefore, the fact is that there are about 21 thousand kilometers of county roads or roads run by the county road administrations. The fact is, they're pretty much in bad shape under that program we brought in four years ago. At that time, it was estimated that about 10% of such roads were not paved at all and a large number of about 50% of these roads are in poor shape and need repair. The fact is that you also said that the county road administrations are financed from revenues from registration of a vehicle which has not been changed since 2002 and 2003, that since 1.1.2003 they have been financed by a part of revenue, from fuel or Croatian road at an annual level, they transfer around 240 million kuna to the county road administrations and there are some interventions, but that's about it. So, 950 million kuna fees for vehicle registration and another 250 which is a little bit anyway. And I agree with you on that. And that's why I said in the beginning that everything you said is standing, it says something needs to be done. We were somewhere in January and with the Association of Road Transporters and with the County Road Administrations discussed how to raise new and additional funds to the county road administrations so that it could be installed into what the two of us and everyone else are talking about. And one common position and conclusion that sometime by the end of the sixth month of this year, not at least by the end of the sixth month of this year, you see some new models and ways to raise more funds to the county road administrations so that you can then intervene in this sense and pave the way, and build and reconstruct the county road administrations, so that we will have an answer to your question in any case during this year to find a solution to secure more funds to the county road administrations. About what way and what I wouldn't be talking about right now, there are more variations but anyway it's going to happen. And one more thing at the end. Regardless of the condition I must really give credit to the county road administrations that have done a lot of work in the past year and in the paved of new unfailed roads, and in maintenance, despite not having as much money as they need.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28399	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28400	Well, I have to say, I'm not happy all the way. Namely, it is good for you to consider possible solutions by the 6th month, but the situation is so critical that it calls for an immediate reaction. If the government is unable to see that this is, among other things, a potentially important anti-recession measure because investing in the maintenance of local and regional roads is a direct aid to the local economy above all because it is done by companies of local character, which employ local people. Direct assistance is among other things, and because the cost of maintenance of vehicles and damages on vehicles is reduced, it is a major problem. At this time, you can give up the temporary construction of the Pelje Bridge and move all these funds because it is known that domestic material is being built into the county regional roads or local roads and import and expensive steel is going to the Pelje Bridge. Let's not rub someone else's goose's neck.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28401	Thank you. Mr. Representative Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28402	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Mr. Ivan Simonovic, Minister of Justice. Mr. Minister, it is visible daily that it is significant but also very hard to fight corruption and organised crime in which your ministry certainly plays a visible role. One of the encouraging and certainly more likely to prevent corruption and organised crime in the future is the measures of taking therefore acquired or unfairly acquired assets. My question is, when is this property clearly seized by criminal proceedings when are you going to set up an asset management agency that was taken away in these criminal proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28403	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28404	Thank you, Mr. President. In public, thoughts have surfaced as to whether it is possible to take away property while an agency that would not yet have such assets. The answer is yes, you can do it and you can do it. We already had the possibility of temporary freezing of property during criminal proceedings under the USKOK Act, we also had cases of confiscation of property. So last year we had seized property because of its illegality and its connection to criminal acts worth 17 million euros. That property's somehow been in possession of it by now. However, you have the full right of a respected representative to extend the possibility of confiscation of property, so not only the confiscation of property related to the initiation of a certain criminal offence but also the confiscation of all property illegally acquired to persons convicted of corruption and organised crime imposes a better management, more organised management of such property. We have already established a task force that is involved in the preparation of the new Penal Code and have mandated it to work in parallel with the preparation of the new Penal Code and the establishment of an agency for the management of such property. A smaller sub-group will be crystallized from that wider group, and legal solutions and best practical organisational solutions for setting up appropriate agencies are now being collected from the ministry of the judiciary. I think we can expect such an agency to be established at the end of 2009 or in the first half of 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28405	Mr. Representative Boro Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28406	Mr. Minister, I am pleased with the answer and I think this is a good message to everyone, but also an incentive measure in any case to prevent corruption and organised crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28407	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28408	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer the question to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Damir Polancec. Dear Ministers, since I come from Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County, I will ask you a question which is the main topic in Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County, but which is also very important for all citizens. In fact, about 3,000 people were directly employed at the 3 May shipyard and another thousand and half cooperative workers, which means that more than 10,000 people in Rijeka and the surrounding area depend directly on the shipyard. Also, Rijeka's businessmen, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, are largely related to "May 3rd" which plays a major role in the economy of Rijeka and the entire county, but also beyond. The shipyard "May 3rd" has been stabilised in the last 3 months thanks to the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and can be said to have emerged from a crisis in which an empty book of orders was held in the autumn of 2008. The signing of a contract for the construction of ships has provided a need for a break for all employees in "May 3rd" because the shipyard now has work to do for about the next 4 years. And here I am finally asking a very specific question. What has the Government of the Republic of Croatia done to help consolidate the shipbuilding site "3 May"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28409	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28410	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you, Madam Parliamentarian, for your question. Shipbuilding is not only in Croatia, but I dare say at this very moment in crisis all over the world. The fact is that many already concluded contracts by shipowners, unfortunately at this point cancel both in European shipyards and in shipyards in the Far East. "3 May" is one of our most important, largest shipyards, second largest and in any case we are fully aware of the importance of both the entire shipbuilding for the Croatian economy and the importance and importance of "3 May" for the economy of the City of Rijeka, i.e. the Primorje-Gorski County and Croatia as a whole. That's why it was unacceptable for us to actually "May 3" as the second largest shipyard, to come to an end, at the end of last year in a situation that actually has an empty book of orders. So our efforts went in two directions. On the one hand, we're about to arrange some new jobs and some new ships for May 3rd. On the other hand, find a way to reprogram the May 3rd obligations. And, of course, it was not easy or easy to do, because it was quite clear that the management of the company had also entered into a crisis situation. And that's why the first step we took, of course, was the change in management because it's unacceptable that "May 3" actually welcomed the end of the year with an empty book of orders. We chose a man who came from the shipyard itself. He led the production of a ship's engine, which proved himself to have both unions and working councils, and megment, and I dare say all community employees. Mr. Starcevic has been successfully running the May 3rd since then. In the meantime, we've made changes to the supervisory board. But what's far more important than that, is that we've managed to contract two new vessels for "Oliary Navigation" for now, and that tomorrow we're going to sign a contract to build two more new ships for tanker navigation, which we absolutely secure full employment "May 3rd" in the next few years. I think it's the biggest contribution, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank my colleague, Mr. Shucker, in this situation, the Minister of Finance, who did everything he could with his associates to come to the "May 3rd" commitment programme so that "May 3" at this point could focus peacefully and focus on the production and placement of the ships that were arranged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28411	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28412	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm pleased with the answer. And I am convinced that this will satisfy all the employees of "May 3rd", as well as the citizens of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28413	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28414	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Minister of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr Peter Cobankovic. Mr. Minister, the Croatian Government is investing large funds through your ministry in the development and improvement of the water economy, primarily the supply of drinking water to the population throughout Croatia, and I would like to point out in particular the importance of investment in eastern Slavonia. As I come from Brod-Posavina County, I express my satisfaction with the work on the construction of the Eastern Slavonia regional water pipeline, which will have 10 municipalities of the eastern part of the county with 30,000 inhabitants with water supply, as well as the construction of the "Davor" Masteral Waterway, which solves and improves the supply of drinking water by 10 municipalities and the town of Nova Gradiška in the western part of the Brod-Posavina County. However, as a resident of Brod-Posavina County of the City of Slavonski Brod, in which citizens in the most part have resolved the issue of water supply and who are interested in draining and water protection, my particular question, Mr. Minister, concerns the announced water protection projects against pollution that will be financed through the IPA programme. and question, is the protection of water in the City of Slavonski Brod provided for funding through the IPA programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28415	Thank you. Mr. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28416	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, I thank you for this question, but also for seeing what is going on, which is what the Croatian Government does through this ministry in the water economy, and I would say, in particular, in addressing the water supply issue. And of course, these are extremely large procedures and large projects and ultimately expensive projects, but they are in the function of addressing the issue of public water supply, which I would say today unimaginably that we are in the 21st century, so that we still have to deal with the issue of water supply. But what's there is, we'll continue on those projects. Of course, when the issue of water supply is resolved, the issue of water treatment or better said waste water treatment must be dealt with, that is something I would say, very important, because Croatia has great potential mainly in water, and it is one of the largest natural resources with which the Republic of Croatia has and in order to properly manage and preserve it for the future, we need to take care of waste water treatment because they are a significant factor in the pollution of groundwater and, overall, by looking at water pollution. For these reasons we are working parallelly on programmes, I would say solving wastewater, purification and so on, and I would say that we have two major projects, it is a project to protect the Adriatic from pollution or a shortened project of the Adriatic with a global bank where practically in coastal areas the issue of water treatment and waste water treatment is addressed. On the other hand in the continental part is also one project with the World Bank, it is an internal water project, where most of the funds are used to clean up waste water. And now to say what you asked directly, we and through pre-accession assistance wanted to install funding from pre-accession aid funds, so above all, I would say that through ISPA we are to finance the resolution of the collector's network and the construction of purification in Karlovac which should ultimately be around 36m euros where 22m euros would be financed from the pre-accession assistance of the ISP. And now we come to this pre-accession IPA program where in component 3b of environmental protection there are sub-components and for water protection and accordingly we went to the implication and nomination of three projects. It is the disposal of wastewater and purification in Slavonski brod and draining and purification in Knin and Drnis. The three projects are implicated, they are in the European Commission, with representatives of the European Commission and I can say that the Slavonski Brod project has passed. Project Slavonski Brod, we will soon receive written confirmation that it has passed, but for now we have unofficial information that it has passed and that the activities on its realization are being launched. As far as the project itself is concerned, I would say that it will weigh nearly 30m euros somewhere that will be eaten somewhere. 50% or 15.34m euros will be financed from IPA funds while the rest will be financed from the national budget around 14.32m euros and from the local budget around 1.3m euros from the local budget, from the utility budget and so on. And this will create assumptions that a good and quality solution will be made to the issue of water treatment, wastewater treatment in the area of the Slavnon ship.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28417	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28418	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the answer to the asked question, as Mr. Ministers and Government representatives will hopefully be satisfied with the citizens of the town of Slavonski Brod as well as the neighbouring municipalities bordering the town of Slavonski Brod, which should also be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28419	Thank you. In this part of the session, we'll have one more question and then we'll have a break. So, Madam Representative Mirela Holly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28420	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy, Damir Polancec. So VAT revenues are down 15% this year than last year, industrial production fell by 5%, GDP dropped by 5%, kuna rate fell, stock market dropped. The only thing that grows is unemployment and inflation. Every day, 150 workers are out of work, and by the end of the year, 50 grand will be out of work. And you as an answer or so-called. The measure you're announcing is that you'll also give the highways in a concession to foreigners, I presume. We're afraid it's a strong reminder of the '90s when many invaluable national treasures passed overnight into the possession of newly-roasted so-called. The company and thousands of employees ended up without a job and without any sources of income. My question is whether Croatian highways financed by Croatian citizens will really go to concessions and how you will then protect workers in Croatian highways who could easily lose their jobs and also the interests of citizens who could soon pay very expensive tolls.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28421	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28422	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representative, you said this reminds you of the '90s. I have to tell you that the financial and economic crisis that shakes today reminds the world and Europe not of the '90s, but reminds you of 30 years ago and many economic analysts, experts, leading the economic minds of Europe and the world today say that this crisis is actually bigger than it was in the second half of the last 30 years. This economic and economic crisis, therefore, is primarily caused by disturbances in the financial market, it has a global character and at this point there is no expert and there is no mind that can give a unique recipe to get out of the global economy crisis. However, even in the assessment of institutions, they differ greatly and change their assessment of what will be the consequences of such an economic crisis, I would almost say on a weekly basis. Here, for example, the International Monetary Fund has recently forecasted, together with the World Bank, global, economic activities for 2009 at 0.5%, today even talking about a decline of up to minus two percent, these are not official reports and forecasts but will very soon publish new forecasts and new reports on this and new forecasts for global economic developments. Of course, if Croatia is 60% of its external trade exchange, it is working with the European Union countries, of course everything that affects the European Union affects Croatia as well. Of course we have a fall in VAT revenue, perhaps a happy circumstance that most of it comes because of the fact that it's falling, imports are falling, and it's a happy circumstance at this point. Just because the state budget's revenue is reduced and we're going into budget rebalance. The budget rebalance in which the first and most important austerity measures are, therefore, saving and delaying everything that is not necessary to invest, to be done in 2009, may wait for 2010 or some year to come beyond that. So the first step is saving at all levels, by all ministries. After that, you will see how much more funds are missing, because we need to have as little deficit as possible of the state budget as possible so that we can finance this deficit on the external market and not increase the external debt. One of the measures can also be giving in a concession of existing or construction by a concession model of new highways in Croatia. If a section of the highway were to go to a concession and, of course, will be taken care of and in that case, it would absolutely ensure the full employment of people working in the Croatian highways today, and would move to a new concessionaire, as well as those who care about the maintenance of these roads. But at this point, it is at the principle level at the level of the idea that needs to be discussed and considered, and all in order to balance the budget, to be a budget in which it will be a deficit as low as possible, that we can finance this deficit in the most painless way for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian economy. Take care of that. And when you mentioned unemployment rates, then here's the information not about the 150 thousand unemployed you're talking about. In late February, on 27 February of this year, there were 2 thousand 700 more unemployed persons in Croatia than in February 2008. So unemployment in Croatia grew at the end of February by 2,000 700 people compared to the same period last year. At this point, there is no need to scare people or talk about a huge wave of unemployment, because it still does not happen in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28423	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28424	Of course I'm not happy with the answer because, first of all, you were telling the wrong information that I never said. You said 150 grand, I said 50 grand. You talked about a whole series of things that I didn't mention at all, and you didn't even answer the question of what would happen to the Croatian highways, whether you'd put them in a concession or not to put them in a concession and what would happen to the workers of the Croatian highways if such a scenario were true. That's why I'm asking you to send me a written reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28425	Thank you very much. Now we'll have a break by 12.30 when we continue with the government's questions and answers. First Mr. Branko Box, then Mrs. Milanka Opačić and so on. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. Asking questions. The first is Mr. Branko Box's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28427	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I ask my question to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the family, the defenders and the intergenerational solidarity of Mrs. Kosor. Madam Vice-President, what is the legal deadline for issuing a solution to the recognition of the status of the Croatian military disabled, and does the ministry stick to that deadline?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28428	Thank you. Mrs. Jadranka Kosor Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28429	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I thank you for asking. So it's about the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is a law that sets deadlines and, of course, that the ministry absolutely tries to respect deadlines, but sometimes there are problems in not understanding one important fact that when deciding on the degree of disability, so the disability and in the first and second degree decisions of the medical committees, so the medical committees that are the only ones invited, so the profession that is the only one invited to say whether someone is disabled or not and of course not where the percentage is if they are disabled. We in the Government have opted for an important I think and a very good principle, meaning the principle that no one in politics can in any way influence the committees, no one in politics can suggest in any way to doctors who are in committees to issue a solution like this or like that. This was left exclusively in the jurisdiction of those who were called, I repeat once again, if it is a disability which is a degree. Therefore, there is sometimes a misunderstanding because, of course, the work of the committees takes time, and sometimes it does not recognize in public what disability is but what disability in the second degree means, the one that is final, which is confirmed. So let's actually go to two degrees. One is a temporary solution and then what is when the whole procedure is over and finally and then there's no talking about it anymore. So finally again, it is about the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Ministry respects the deadlines and, of course, respects the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28430	Thank you. Mr. Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28431	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm happy with your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28432	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Milanka Opačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28433	A question for Mr. Milinovic's health minister. Every day, Mr. Minister is increasingly dissatisfied with your work. First, family doctors said dissatisfaction, and then doctors in hospitals from last week also spoke to pharmacists. They're leaving you and your closest associates. Your healthcare assistant, Mrs. Dubravka Jadro, has worked for 20 years at the Department of Health at work in that system. However, she could no longer tolerate your daily improvisations, daily changes to the instructions and regulations. She resigned from the post of Assistant Minister of Health and to membership in the administrative councils of state health institutions. The reason is more improvisation and self-grate and less professions. The citizens have long realized that you and the Minister of Health are not going to have a good time. You've introduced their participations, they have to pay extra health insurance, and they don't have any money. Your incompetence is now understood by the closest associates and reacting by running away from you. Chains to tie them up can't hold them anymore. My question is what else has to happen, Mr. Minister, so the prime minister can treat you like Mrs. Ana Lovrin and Berislav Roncevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28434	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28435	I'll welcome your awakening as I said the last time you were at the 57th session of the Youth Committee for the last time, and I welcome your awakening. The pharmacy. We cut the payment from 300 to 170 days. The doctors sent me yesterday and today I have after this current hour and with them a meeting, supporting the health system reform. Mrs. Jadro, my closest associate, and now I understand where that sign in the paper came from. I will say because she wrote it in her statement for health reasons asked me to resolve some functions but not the director of administrative affairs or how a journalist in a daily newspaper wrote to the assistant minister because that function no longer exists. And Mrs. Jadro is one of my closest and best associates, and she'll stay that way. But I'm glad you said that I know where the wind blows. So there's no dissatisfaction in the health system. There is a SDP that goes to Croatia and spreads pessimism. There's no place pessimism especially in the health system and all that you mentioned doesn't fit the truth. I assume you're touched by my last answer to the current question with one question that is abundant in a series of false things.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28436	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28437	I'm not happy with the answer because you haven't answered my question, you've again used yourself to deal with me personally. As for you, you share the fate or behaviour of all of you in HDZ, which is that you live in another Croatia compared to this Croatia where our citizens live and the problems our citizens have. And what you were saying about editing articles if you thought I was editing some articles. No, Mr. Milinovic, those who write and arrange articles against you are sitting in your ranks, not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28438	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28439	Dear President of the Parliament, honourable members of the government. My question is to ask Mr. Damir Polancec about some recent media statements. You have stated that to patching up the budget in this year will not be enough just to cut costs but that you plan to increase the price of gasoline further. You said you were going to introduce new excise duties. You said you'd raise both prices and mobile phone and you said you'd raise VAT. If we add to this the cost of additional regulation of a number of state agencies and the burdens we have new to citizens in the health sector de facto is one set of new taxes. What I'm curious about is why in the election campaign you said there would be no new taxes, and this is how you introduce them. So you didn't go to the public honestly and said we have to introduce new taxes, we have no way to fill these budget holes because we don't know how to spend less, but we have to introduce new taxes. You said there wouldn't be any new taxes in the election campaign. I remember those Barcelona posters where there were no new taxes, and also those words could be heard by both HDZ presidents and all members of the then government at all pre-election meetings.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28440	Mr. Vice President Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28441	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you, MP, for your question, although I think that today I am in the answers that I have been giving so far, in a good way, to answer what you are asking me. So the fact is that the budget is defined in the 12th month. The fact is that in the 12th month, although we were aware of what was coming and the effects of the crisis, we, like the European Commission, the World Bank, were still in our forecasts of the rate of economic growth more optimistic than is happening today. This is why, therefore, the budget that we have presented in the Croatian Parliament's higher house also includes a much higher income than it will actually be. The fact is, that's why we're going to rebalance the state budget and it's one of the most important or if you really want the most important of these anti-recession measures that have been applied so far. This rebalancing of the state budget is going towards first and foremost an emphasis has been placed on achieving savings wherever possible by whatever ministry it is possible to do so. As recently presented for now, savings per ministry are at about 2 billion, slightly above 2 billion kuna. There will be more talks and negotiations and contacts between Mr. Shucker's coordinator, the finance ministry and other ministries with one goal only to achieve additional savings. This must have as much a balanced state budget as possible for the result, i.e. a lower deficit of the state budget as possible. If you have read the article "Evening List" well, then you may have noticed, and the next day I was very clear about the fact that it is not about the measures where I would have invented, but about the measures that have been discussed on the Economic Council so far, and it does not matter at all which side and from which member of the Economic Council, which of the individual proposed measures comes from. I am, of course, a member of this Economic Council. So I was talking about what all the measures were mentioned on the Economic Council and I made it very clear that they would continue to talk about them. Some of them may also apply, and some of them may not be used. At this point, no one can answer that. It therefore depends on what the level of savings will be and depends on how the situation will develop with the revenues of the state budget. While you're calling me and calling for new taxes. If you have read this article well and reviewed the proposed measures, then you will see that it is only in one segment a new tax, i.e. a new tax, i.e. a tax or tax on mobile telephony. All other taxes mentioned there are already contained in our tax system. So, first and foremost, we're going to try and recapitulate now, we're going to try to achieve as much savings as possible to make the government budget deficit as possible because of the reduced revenues as possible, and then we're going to talk about how best to finance that deficit. And we'll be ready to talk about it here and on other occasions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28442	Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28443	Thank you. So old taxes only increased and one new tax. So these old taxes aren't actually called new taxes but old taxes, but they'll probably be something bigger. And these are actually serious measures, and here's thank you for answering that it's still like that. I will remind you once again that in 2003 you also announced that you will reduce VAT. You didn't cut it, and in 2007, you said there wouldn't be any new taxes. So, you probably joked in a pre-election campaign with both things. If so, if you were joking then here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28444	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28445	Thank you very much. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, and to the entire government. For the difficult economic situation in Croatia, the only reason is not this global crisis that the government has been getting away with all the time, but this extremely bad and irresponsible government that has rejected a whole series of SDP laws by trying to do so, precisely by refusing and further deepening this crisis in which the whole of Croatia is located. The SDP sent a legislative proposal to parliament early this year to reduce salaries to ministers, parliamentary deputies, other state officials due to the difficult economic situation in the country. And to remind you, Mrs. Kosor, that's when you said that this is about ordinary hypocrisy and demagogy of the SDP. You said it was impossible to cut the government's salaries because it would mean disrupting the entire system. However, some day at the HDZ centre, not in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not together with these satellite parties, it was decided to pay officials however. Mrs. Kosor, what happened to you, and did you decide to tear down that system overnight, and did you become a demagogue and hypocrite?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28446	Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor, and for some of these decorations and figures, I'll pretend I haven't heard. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I won't answer the same question because I brought it from my own home first. So, I'm talking about home education, Mr. Representative, so I'm warning you this is something that we all have to do and what we bring from home we have for life. What we don't have, we don't have any schools, no parties, nothing like that can teach us. So much for that. But while you're talking, I'm also going to warn you about the provisions of the Gender Equality Act, so not a demagogue because I'm not a man, but you should translate it according to the Gender Equality Act. So you violated good customs, home education, but here are some laws, positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. And now the answer to your question. It's true when you and the SDP mentioned a 6% reduction in salaries to government officials, then I and the entire government were talking about an incredible turnover because when we negotiated with representatives of civil servants' unions about possible freezing salaries of 6% for 2009 then SDP was fiercely opposed to those salaries being frozen, meaning not to be cut, to freeze and to speak despite our warning that salaries were bound by government officials and officials because it was the same basis, that it was simply about the fact that you couldn't selectively apply regulations, a little bit like this. But when it comes to SDP, obviously anything is possible. And I'm going to remind you of the fact that we've made a decision to cut government officials' salaries which, if I calculated well, is about 70% higher than what the SDP suggested. Therefore, we will realize it. This decision was taken yesterday at a meeting of the Government and we will probably have a debate in the Croatian Parliament these days and I believe that we will get support and even from you, Mr. Representative. And as for your findings from the beginning of your question, it was not a question of the government being responsible for the crisis and you denied that there was any crisis in the world that would reflect on Croatia. I believe that all leading economic and financial experts listen carefully to this and that they will be deeply pictured over what you have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28448	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28449	This debate on home education, however, and these sayings that you have just said speak more about you than about me. If you heard my question correctly, then I was just quoting you. And since you are known in Croatia as extremely socially sensitive to this demagogy, I only remind you whether or not the social sensitivity issue that was related to the competition that was held for the deputy Ombudsman for disabled persons where only one person with disabilities reported nine of them to the competition. However, he was chosen. ... I'm begging you a little. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] That you have a breach of your rules of procedure and that you interrupt. Apparently, he is employed there by Mr. Boris Jakov Garecic, who is allegedly a relative of Minister Calmeta. ... Well, there is, it's still a question about your home education and your social sensitivity. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28450	I thought we were gonna make it through today without these injuries to the Rules of Procedure and so on. However, we have a request or application from Mrs. Carmela Caparin for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 214. My colleague, in this article and in our Rules of Procedure, it says that you must behave politely, not to the Vice President, to say that he is a hypocrite. Since you don't know any other words decent, then I don't think you belong in this House. And I ask you, Mr. President, to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28452	Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Bozica Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28453	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Agent Vinkovic has injured Article 214. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for insulting Madam Vice-President Jadranka Kosor in his parliamentary question. Mr. Vinkovic, I think you know that it is the 21st century and that women of politicians should be respected. I beg you, from your ranks, from the ranks of the SDP, we have in the Croatian Assembly the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality. I am very sorry that the president has not responded to such an insult and I am asking you to call on the Committee on Gender Equality to be seen about this insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28454	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ms Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28455	Mr. President... Somebody shut me down, never mind. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Bonton. Article 214 of our Rules of Procedure has been injured. Indeed, this is unauthorized to refer such words to one of the prime ministers of the government without speaking to another woman. These days, we've heard a lot about women in politics, women fighting for their rights, we all seem to be doing our best. I really ask you to warn fellow MPs who address us women when necessary. This has indeed been said through one question a whole series of insults.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28456	Mr. Zoran Vinkovic is in violation of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28457	I'm also reporting for damage to the Rules of Procedure because this wasn't an injury at all. Article 214, after all, you have broken the entire Rules of Procedure since you wrote it. ... And now you're breaking it or breaking it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First of all, I didn't insult Mrs. Secretary because she's a woman. This is primarily a political assessment that says that she is indeed a demagogue and hypocrite because to make a statement, I remind you that I did not say it, but precisely the Deputy Prime Minister when she said it was the demagogy of the SDP and that it would bring down the whole system. How come this isn't a system crash? Let me remind you, that same salary, that constituency salary was raised by 6 to 7% a few months ago. This is now not being hypocritical to the Croatian people but it is far more than that. On the other hand, this House, dear lady, did not choose you, so you can't judge whether I can be a representative or not. I've been chosen by citizens just as much as you. Therefore, I would ask you to keep in mind and the male sex be a little bit above all themselves related to this gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28458	By calling for Article 214 but not paragraph 5, the President or the other MPs are undermining or insulting, since Mrs Kosor is clearly not a representative. But there is an item 6 that says, "by his conduct, he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Parliament." And for that reason, paragraph 6, I give you a warning. And she's still reporting for the violation of Mrs. Gordana Sobol's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28459	Mr. President, please, I'm responding to my fellow MPs calling me president of the Committee on Gender Equality. I consider the article 100 injured. Rules of Procedure on the work and work of the Committee on Gender Equality. And I would kindly ask all of us sitting here in this hall not to withdraw when it suits them with some alleged insult to sex because it just shows that killing is not enough to know this problem, and it would be very good if we were always as representatives and advocates in principle. So for example, I remind you that in the last session when our former representative, Lucija Cikeš or Mrs. Zdenka Babić Petricevic, insulted us here by MPs, then you had no idea that you were reacting, so please do not associate this with the sex of the vice president or anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28460	It doesn't mean that once it hasn't reacted that it should continue not to react. Mr. Zoran Vinkovic has another breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28461	It is Article 214(6), because I do not see the reasons, I think you can give me two, three warnings, not at all, but I would ask you to explain to me as President of the Parliament that these are general rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament, and am I, although I accept that warning, did I ever break the rules of a polite conduct by calling it, giving a political assessment to the vice presidents of the government and the entire government? Do you want to introduce the censorship of the representatives here? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28462	I can explain it and I will explain it because it is someone I call a hypocrite and it is not the usual behavior in the Croatian Parliament. It is not the usual behaviour in the Croatian Parliament, therefore, but as it was repeated several times, you did not get the word He has a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ranko Ostojić. [[Intruder: Read exactly today what you have stated.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28463	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Article 208 has been injured, which means only the chairman of a person who can give a word in this House. In fact, I think that our basic position is for why we are chosen to speak freely, to say what we think, and then we do not experience a situation that is just a violation of Article 214, which is that on our part, our fellow MPs get the situation to disrupt the order at the session and you can't say what you think. Maybe someone doesn't have to like it, and if the representative isn't happy with your explanation, then he can apply an article that says nicely which board, after your clarification, can give him a satisfactory answer within 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28464	All you have the right to do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of course that it is available to any representative, and mine as chairman in this case, there are others who may be chaired, is the right and the duty to express, among other things, warnings for seven of these reasons in Article 214. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I have applied this right, if a representative wants to call on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to trouble or challenge this warning, he has the right to do so within 24 hours, I agree. Thank you very much, let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28465	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, members of the government. I'll ask Minister Calmetti a question if I don't want to get into a situation similar to Vinkovic. So I'm asking Mr. Secretary of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. In view of the announcements on restrictiveness, i.e. saving 500 million kuna, as I have read in the Ministry of Ministers and since 2004, since the session of the Government held in the summer, there has been an announcement in Požega of documentation and the beginning of works on the so-called the fast valley road that would combine the "golden valley", so Požega with the tour around Požega and Pleternica with the corridor A3, so the Zagreb-Lipovac highway. I would ask Mr. Minister to answer my question when the production of technical documentation, i.e. the main project, and when the works announced in 2004 will begin, so it has been 5 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28466	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28467	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. It's hard for me to answer these questions in detail now and precisely because there are so many roads that it really is, it can't all fit in my head together so I always know everything at all times. So we'll give you a written answer with exact deadlines, etc. But what I know and what I can answer for you today is that the Pleternica bypass, when it comes to the Pleternica bypass, is that an idea solution is agreed, so the idea solution is made, that an environmental impact study has been agreed, professional basis for making the location permit etc., etc. And it's under way to build a whole project of the Pleternica bypass. Now, which is the contractual deadline for this to be over, I don't know, so we'll give it to you in writing, but as soon as all this is done together and the building permit comes out, I can certainly say that the works on that bypass will start. And these restrictions we are talking about do not apply to the financial resources that have Croatian roads and there will be no abolition or doping of individual projects. That's one thing I wanted to tell you. And secondly, you mentioned a quick road to the Pleternica-Požega-Brestovac. And I can also tell you that this hour, the whole paperwork is being produced at the level of the main projects. Also, as soon as it is done, it will be accessible to call a public tender and everything that follows, i.e. the beginning of works. But here's what I've just told you, if it isn't enough I'll ask the Croatian roads to give you a written reply with more precise delivery deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28468	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28469	I'm not completely satisfied with the answer, because I know that capital investment, and even road savings in Slavonia, there are constant savings, so I'm afraid that these savings that are scheduled for you, you say they won't be, but we don't have that kind of experience in Slavonia that the savings are not on us. They're always up to us and they're staying on us. Furthermore, I must visit you once again that the government meeting in Požega was in summer in 2004. So, it's been almost five years since then and it's been promised then, but I don't seem to say who I'm looking forward to, says a folk proverb. Furthermore, I must say that the Pleternica, the Town of Pleternica, has become one traffic left in which 5 or 6 traffic routes are left and that it has become a largely suppressed circular current. And another thing is that there are now no elections, or campaigns, various emissaries of the ruling coalition that are already breaking through Poželjko Gora, break through the Delja Mountain and join the alleged Brod-Posavina County with such tunnels as "Svet. Rock or Little Chapel, so with Savina and Corridor A3. Unfortunately, when the population knows, let the citizens know, but you can see that even today you couldn't say the exact date or the indicative date when you can expect not to realize at all, but to start the project. Thank you very much, and I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28470	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28471	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to Mrs. Bjanki Matkovic, State Secretary and despite the blockade of Croatian negotiations currently taking place for the sake of the Slovenian blockade, we continue to implement in Croatia and continue with the internal plan of starting reforms. Likewise with the compliance of the criteria and almost all the criteria will be met in the negotiating chapter. And we are intensively harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Since you are the co-ordinator of the ministries, I would ask you to tell us more closely how these measures are being implemented and what is the dynamics?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28472	Thank you. State Secretary Ms. Bianca Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28473	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. MP, as you said yourself, Croatia has opened 22 chapters in its negotiating process so far. 7 has closed, and 12 negotiating chapters are under the Slovenian blockade and I believe that we will soon solve this problem and remove the blockade from those chapters. Croatia continues with all the reforms envisaged and in accordance with the progress report and the map of the road written inside in the November month last year, we expect under the Presidency of the Czech Republic to open 11 chapters, close 12 and close the remaining 16 chapters during the Swedish Presidency. I believe that once we have resolved the blockades of the Republic of Slovenia, we will meet all our obligations in time, especially because, as you yourself have said, all the authorities of the state administration are implementing the necessary reforms and harmonising the legislation. I would like to visit you that last year, the Croatian Parliament passed 120 laws that were in line with the practice of the European Union and with European legislation. In all, this is 267 laws, 334 sublaws and 184 implementing measures. This year we still have 40 laws by the end of the year, and by the end of this quarter we have 10 laws. I want to assure you from my position now that all the authorities of the executive authority, meaning all the ministries and bodies of the state administration, will fulfil all our obligations that we have put before us to truly be the final year in our negotiation process, but also means working with full dynamics on implementation of reforms, on harmonisation of legislation, but also to take care of the quality of the laws adopted and on the protection of national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28474	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28475	Thank you very much for this information. It is only for us to hope that the negotiations will unblock very quickly and that, if this is almost this year, we will be able to complete negotiations with the European Union. And the moment it's unblocked, one big boom can be expected in the opening and closing of our chapters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28476	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28477	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honored members of the government headed by the prime minister. My question is to Minister Polancec. The board of directors of the private Privatisation Fund has not met for 4 months. In the last current hour, we asked you as these problems pile up between "Wupika" and "Wupika" where people wait, i.e. customers wait for your decisions. What is happening is much more drastic, which is "Zeljezara Splita" in which those who have become the basis of the contract with the Croatian Privatisation Fund owners do not meet their obligations, do not pay contributions for workers and all these warning signals that are going towards you are obviously not enough reason to consider and terminate contracts with such customers. My question is concrete, and that means four months you haven't called a meeting of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's Administrative Council, and I would ask you to tell me, or to justify the unhappiness of the body you're at the head of?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28478	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28479	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I thank you for your question. As for the finding you said that the Governing Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund has not met for 4 months, I must disappoint you not to stand that finding. So, definitely in those four months that you mentioned was held a session of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund. However, at this moment we are in the process of defining the future of the Privatisation Fund and I hope that we will soon have the opportunity to present it to the Croatian public, including the Croatian Parliament. And I think this is a much more important issue at this point than the privatisation process that the Croatian Privatisation Fund must implement. Of course, there are situations such as the situation in VUPIK and in some other companies that are crying for privatisation and be confident and calm that this privatisation will soon happen. Why hasn't the competition for VUPIK been announced? Because we established a higher level of society obligations than we were presented by the company administration. We had to do an additional audit. We did this, now we've got all the necessary information, and within the next 10 days the competition will be so on government and after that announced. As for the Split Ironworks and the Sisak tube rolling stock in the same context, we can talk about each other, we follow everything that happens in one company. The fact is that at this point in time when the Split Ironworks are much closer to making additional pressure that, of course, the strategic partner who bought and carried out all of his obligations so far is also fulfilling this obligation that you mentioned and this is the payment of contributions for all employees and I am convinced that it will and will therefore, in accordance with all the provisions of the contract, he will continue to act. So, we're working on the reconstruction of the privatisation fund, we're preparing the privatisation of a society that is in the biggest difficulty including VUPIK, and this competition will be announced in the next 10 days. As for the Split Ironworks, we talk and negotiate and we pressure ourselves to respect the contractual obligations and payments made to all employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28480	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28481	Mr. Secretary, with your answer, I'm not happy, so I'm going to beg to receive it in writing, and I'm going to tell you why. I can see that, apart from the Government, even the Croatian Privatisation Fund seems to be moving to secret sessions, and that's probably why we don't know what you decide there. And I mentioned to you the hardware store for a reason, it's a company that doesn't work, which has 70 million kuna, in which the union warns you that their account is blocked and they could produce. If these aren't enough signals, not to press a strategic partner, but to finally start protecting our workers. We have 480 people, the moment they run out of factories and without everything, because let's not forget that you made a contract where they made sure of themselves. They can't lose anything there in the event of bankruptcy. That means these customers have a situation to themselves, be careful they borrow their own money and in the event of bankruptcy they will still be able to earn on it. That's what worries me. I ask you to do your best to protect the workers of the Split Ironworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28482	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28483	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Culture, Master Bishop. Very well known is the importance, contribution, Croatian naive art of all Croatian art and this art has celebrated our homeland around the world. The Podravina certainly takes a special place, on the very mention of the Hlebin but, of course, other areas of the Gole, Molvi, Judaism, speak enough for itself. Surely you are familiar with Mr. Ministers' initiative to set up the Hlebina Museum Gallery Centre which has improved this very important area, which would bring back the glow, of course as well, but has also contributed to the development of tourism that has been spoken of lately, mainly cultural tourism. But this entails the natural separation of the gallery, Hlabine, from the museum of the town of Koprivnica. And these days we're witnessing in the media, in various struggles. So here's a title that says, according to the existing regulations, separation unfounded. So the second town of Koprivnica will prevent, so the carrying out of art etc. I ask you, Mr. Minister, what your knowledge of this problem is and what your opinion of this commendable initiative is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28484	Mr. Minister Bozo Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28485	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. And we've seen in new that in some way for almost a year that problem somewhere a little... Well, sometimes he picks up a little louder. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the fact is that the Hlebins, we would say the term old-fashionedly, would say the brand, not only in Croatia, not only in Croatian art, but in all the world, of course. When the gallery was founded for 66 years, the situation was different, then the municipality community, Koprivnica, the centre was in koprivnica, and then the normal museum Koprivnski was in charge of establishing the gallery. The gallery was founded for 68 years but with intent as a museum institution, too, with the intention to exist in Hlebin because at that time of course it was already, a great interest in Croatian naive art becoming. Although she has a long history since the 30s when Krsto Hegeduic first called the young... at the exposition of the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When Krsto supported both Virius and Frost before the war and the whole group of people gathered around and, of course, it extended and turned into a very significant movement of naive art throughout the world. This problem should not actually exist today in this way, of course, you mentioned and it is mentioned that part of the building is carried to the museum in Koprivnica. If the Hlebins, today the Hlebine municipalities, have the right, can establish their own establishment, can be independent. If they can finance that gallery. If that's what they decide. Because today in Hlebin they are no longer naive, they are people who can decide and know exactly whether or not they can keep such a gallery alive, which is very valuable because the Ministry of Culture is, of course, helping in the programming part, then it should be made possible for them. That would be one positive trend and the hive should help. And the museum and the city. Because until now he's actually taken care of the museum, or the city about the gallery, professionally, even financially, because the county has been relatively few, a little or too rarely involved in it all together. We think that this gallery should be preserved, that it should, however, be helped and, of course, the Ministry of Culture will and the Council, the museum council will, in any case, be very easy to help form, create and isolate the gallery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28486	Thank you. Mr. Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28487	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am pleased that the Ministry recognizes this part, and in any case I would like to mention that both municipalities and Molve and Gola and, of course, with the maximum support of the county are interested in making such an institution live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28488	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28489	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government with ministers, MPs and MPs. My question would be addressed by the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity to Mrs. Kosor. The fact that there is violence in the family necessarily raises the issue of protecting the most vulnerable groups of women and children. Madam Vice-President and Minister, can you tell us what amendments to breaking legislation are, as well as amendments to the Law on protection against domestic violence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28490	Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28491	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs, you have well concluded that in the area of combating domestic violence, much has been done and I must mention the basic document, so the National Strategy for the fight against violence that comes from many obligations. One of these is possible and possible even if amendments to the legislation are necessary. I will remind you that we have done a lot through the amendments to both the Family Law and the Penal Code, but here it has proved that we also need to amend the provisions of the Law on the Protection and Reversal of Family Violence and I can inform you that the amendments have been prepared. I expect for a few days to give their opinions and ministries to the amendments to the law, and then, of course, they will be held at a session of the government and the Parliament. What is new in this amended law, of course if the Croatian Parliament accepts it, is that many news is being introduced. Among other things, I would point out the so-called. economic violence. In particular, since, unfortunately, the victims of violence are mostly women when it comes to domestic violence, women, and children, economic violence has proved to be one of the worst, most difficult, and one of the reasons why many women do not decide to report and walk away from it. So we finally formulate it in the law itself. All applications or cases based on the provisions of this law will have to be settled in court by emergency procedure. We have introduced new measures concerning the protection of children, but also new measures to protect the victims themselves, of course, regardless of who this was, so I believe that you here in Parliament will soon discuss this law, that you will give it support. And we have done much to protect against domestic violence, but I must mention that the laws or regulations that speak about the repression of violence are, of course, also based on the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discretion of Discrimination, but also on other regulations, here are proven rights. This is the latest news, and I believe that soon we will be here discussing what new law we will pass and how effective it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28492	Thank you. Mrs. Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28493	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President and Minister, from your answer it is actually a visible intention of the state to finally and definitely calculate itself with violent behavior and abusers within the family. And here is the campaign carried out by your ministry through family centres that clearly testifies to this calculation, because in fact, the family center is the institution that implements the widest range of preventive measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28494	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28495	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the government. I refer my question to the vice president of the Croatian government, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. In an attempt to overcome this crisis, the government unfortunately saves on education. Despite your promises, HDZ promises, not all children have free textbooks. In the same way, despite the government's promises, not all children have been covered nor the transport costs anymore, and scholarships for higher education institutions in the last four years in the HDZ government's mandate have increased from 20% to 100%, depending on the institutions and cycles of the study itself, and an increasing number of students are paying and expensive tuition. The question is brief and clear. How is it saved on Croatian students and Croatian students while building a campus in Mostar for 320 million?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28496	Thank you. Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28497	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative. Well, I think it's very clear from the plane why you're asking this question. Namely, the issue is aimed at one of the foundations of your party's programme, and this is if it is possible for all powers to abolish the right of Croatian citizens, so Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina to vote in parliamentary elections, so outside of Croatia, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And you know that we differ by a billion percent. So it is your view that this right should be abolished, it is our view that this right should not be abolished. Because if the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina were good, and they were great when it was necessary to defend Croatia in all ways and by means of their own life, they are also good today in peace and can, of course, get the support that our constitutional support is, as you mention, the University of Mostar. Yes, yes, it is the obligation of the Croatian state, on this we will introduce, we want children to be educated in Mostar, but it is not just a Croatian university, you need to know that. There are all the children who want it, all the students and it does not go to children's schooling in Croatia. So, it's incorrect what you're saying, it's absolutely all incorrect what you've found in your question. As you know, we have done a number of important measures, in fact tripled the education budget in the broadest sense in Croatia, and so it will be, you do not have to worry, as you do not have to worry about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is our constitutional obligation to continue to take care of them and so it will be today, but so it will be tomorrow and so it will be after the next parliamentary elections, Mr. MP. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28498	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28499	Dear Vice President, you haven't quite answered my question too much, but let's do this. What about the Croats in Vojvodina, what about the Croats in Romania, what about the Croats in Germany, the United States? Those campuses didn't win. So the Croatian mind of the minister and Croatian knowledge remains at this time the only hope as a true export card of the Republic of Croatia and as the right way for a knowledge society that has at the moment only flossule in the state. And instead of investing 320 million kuna in policies to strengthen the quality of education, you are actually adding to the Croats in BiH with money from Croatian taxpayers to give you trust in the elections. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28500	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Damir Caine's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28501	Your Honor, Mr. President. I want to ask Mr. Sanader, the prime minister of the Croatian government. You're a man in this country sometimes asks a question where we live. Do we live in Croatia, Switzerland, Japan? I don't know in some “banana” republic, etc. That every day in this country, we're making less decisions, and we know it very well. We now see that we will not be in the European Union until 2012. We sold the banks at the end of the '90s for 7 billion kuna. We've had them cleared with 13 billion kunas before. The net earnings to banks last year in Croatia were around 9 billion kuna, and their total annual income was only from interest of 20 billion kuna. Bank managers share bonuses from one million to two million kunas. This year's Zagreb bank doesn't. We've given the banks to form pension funds that we're paying into that second pillar of 5%. Banks with that money, i.e. their funds maintain the liquidity of foreign companies in Croatia, i.e. companies outside Croatia. In one word, the liquidity of Croatian tycoons. But now banks are moving forward and have recently made a decision to tie all loans to citizens, businesses, I suppose, and the state itself to Swiss francs, dollars or euro. So the question is how banks in Croatia can be sent a message that in Croatia there is a means of payment of kuna and that they do not play with the credibility of the national currency. Because if they believe in kunas, and that seems to be going in that direction, then they're going to believe in the kuna in a poor woman who has one white, one black. But no matter what, it increased the savings in 2008 from 233 to 248 billion kuna. So, for 14.7 billion kuna and a hand-to-hand savings for as much as 19.7 billion kuna from 160 to 180 billion kuna. It is clear that our message from Parliament and you in government, etc. to tell the citizens that the safest money in the banks, but also to the banks to stop triple, is fourfold secure. Because that's just how they exhaust the substance of these citizens, businesses, companies, and I don't know who they're not, the state as a whole. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28502	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28503	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and thank you, Mr. Representative, for this matter. Before I come to the very question, you gave an introduction and I will comment on that introduction. You told me in Croatia we are making fewer decisions on our own, we are not going to the European Union before 2012. We do this, we do that. I'll say the opposite. We in Croatia decide for ourselves and that may be the reason for these speculations of yours when we enter the European Union. But these speculations that appear these days when we enter the European Union are completely irrelevant at this point. What is relevant at this time is that Croatia will not be blackmailed. That's the point. And we won't give up our territory. I think that's what I'm saying on behalf of all Istrana, that we won't give territory, that someone lifts their blockade from our negotiations. Therefore, I do not care if this is brought into context whether blackmail or not is relevant to me for the date of entry. And that's why I'm appealing to everyone not to have a discussion about the date of entry. [[Applause.]] And one more thing. I am sure that despite this blackmail from Slovenia, we will enter the European Union without giving and a centimeter of Croatian territory. I'm sure of it. That's it. When it comes to making as little decisions as possible. Now let me tell you something. Croatia has never had a stronger international position, because you probably appeal to it or associate it with that that perhaps, for these or those reasons, our accession to the euro with Atlantic integration, we would decide as little as possible. No, because then that would mean the same thing for other countries that are both associations. We do not decide where we agreed to transfer the decision to common bodies when it comes to NATO, no matter what happens, this play that happens in Slovenia. We will enter NATO on April 3rd and this is for now quite certain and NATO has no right to the luxury of waiting for any theatre or theatre. And that is why when we join NATO, we will transfer some of our responsibility to the bodies in which we too will be represented and make decisions together with them. That doesn't mean we'll decide as little as possible. This means that for the first time we will be in the world's leading associations where Croatia belongs. So much for those decisions. Now, as far as the banks are concerned, I agree with you without the rest. I believe that banks make extremely good money in these times of crisis, and that's why I'm on my own without any tools, except as Prime Minister and citizen, and Croats, to appeal to banks and to say you can't act like it's not a crisis in times of crisis. And you can't ignore in times of crisis the fact that you've made a very good living in the past few years. And that today, please, ma'am, and that you're making good money today. Therefore, please be sure to transfer the part that you have been working on to the citizens. How? Not to pay them back, but to reduce interest, not to increase interest and not to provide triple what you have the right. And if you ask me what our argument is, just an argument of poor words, comes to the Parliament, comes to the government and public appearances of all of us. Let's tell the banks and there are some of them. There are and our words fall to fertile soil. There are banks that listen and start cutting interest rates. I also appeal from this pay phone and thank you for asking me today to use it on behalf of the entire government and on my personal behalf, to tell the banks you've made good money, times of crisis, paradigms of capitalism and the financial system are changing and choose to take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28504	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28505	Me, I need a little more time now. I wasn't talking about demarcation, but I said it once. I'd give my friends blood. I wouldn't give them land. But now we know that we will not be in the European Union until the end of 2011. We all agree the opportunities are painful. Without banks, we certainly won't increase exports. He fell in the first month by 26.1%, dropping imports, falling foreign exchange inflows from tourism. It is due to return 12.3 billion euros this year. We just can't do it without reprogramming those debts. Employment, economic activity, etc. The banks are really milking the citizens. Interests fall everywhere, in Croatia permanently growing. In London, they now fell to a historic minimum of 1%. In fact, they robbed Croatia with our guilt for 7 billion kuna, and previously we rescheduled those banks with 13 billion kuna. But what's the point? In Croatia, citizens work for kunas. Payments are done here in kunas. The goods are sold in kunas. Pensions, pensions are also paid in kunas, and they, like I said, are provided triple, quadruple, and it really doesn't make sense anymore because we're all going to meet in one debt slavery and such a message. I agree in that part, although in a large part they may agree, we must send them clearly, unequivocally.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28506	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28507	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, and distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Pankretić. Mr. Minister, these days we're familiar with the decision of a milk buyer to cut the price of milk so I'm curious what the Ministry of Agriculture is going to do about it? In order to improve the situation in the dairy sector, and how much is it invested annually in the dairy sector? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28508	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28509	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. I think the question is very relevant given the moment we're in today, so I'm going to extend it a little bit with regard to these current protests that we're having. I will say very clearly that on this request of yours, we answered very spotfully and unfortunately, we were surprised when our farmers informed us that there was a unilateral termination of the contract with agricultural producers and, in some ways, to the announcement of a reduction in milk prices. We've been reacting spotlessly, talking to the milkmen, and I have to say, after longer talks, we've come to a common position to pull these contracts back and sit down at a common table. We think we need a tripartite, i.e. milk producers, dairy and ministry, as we did last year, so continue this year, talk, define and help the sector maximum. When we talk about the dairy sector, I will point out that on average, it invests in the dairy sector over 800 million kunas annually, so it gives very concrete results, and I will note that in January this year, when compared to January 2008, milk production increased by 4% and we can say that we are also looking optimistically at the future of production itself. Here I'm going to take the opportunity to say that these protests, which are organized by a small part of the manufacturer, are certainly not established, and I have to say that they don't fit this overall situation because requirements such as the removal of all credits from all banks for the development of production cannot be assessed realistically. Of course we accept and work individually with manufacturers to discuss individual cases and especially with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development we are in daily contact to help those producers who are in certain problems. As for the other requirements, we've already absorbed them and I have to say, and to the producers, as we told the milkmen, it's a matter of agreement, it's a matter of sitting at a table, not protesting or not making any unilateral decisions in that part. Sometimes I think it is in the interest of individuals who unfortunately abuse the most difficult situation that is in dairy production because we know that we also have to respond to the challenges of competitiveness, but also to everything that weighs total agricultural production. So I can make it very clear that we will continue to monitor the overall situation, talk tripartitely to producers, but also to the dairy industry, all in order to improve the overall dairy sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28510	Thank you. Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28511	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am personally satisfied with your answer, and I hope that it will satisfy the ones most and, so to speak, the milk manufacturer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28512	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28513	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is the title of how the graduates were supposed to save Croatia, and it was addressed, or intended for Minister Bajsa. I see he's not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28514	Yes, the secretary of state is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28515	Yeah, let me see. After a long unnecessary one, and probably for all of us, i.e. for all citizens, Prime Minister Sanader announced several so-called "expensive waitings" along with Finance Minister Schuker. anti-recession measures they intend to contain the crisis and get Croatia out of recession. One of these measures in the media was called 6. Sanader's command is, and I quote, "schools should organise prom trips in Croatia". Afterwards, Mr. Minister said in the media that the measure is not in fact a concrete measure and that graduates would only be a drop in the sea in the total number of tourists. Now, you see, there is no Mr. Minister Bajs, probably rounding up seniors in Croatia and convincing them of their well-being in order to listen to Prime Minister Sanader. Tell me, what will you and the minister and all of you together at the ministry, in what way will you raise your strength at one of the next government meetings when you have to report how many of you, or how many graduates have listened to Prime Minister Sanader? Because here we see that they reject that command, that is, that recommendation, and that they have yet to throw that they will travel for their money wherever they want, or in their own dictionary, not even the whole government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28516	State Secretary of the Ministry of Tourism, Mr Ivo Mujo.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28517	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, esteemed parliamentary representatives, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. I will look back on what you asked, or I will refer to the work of the Ministry of Tourism at a time really demanding and I will say that Minister Bajs is today and these days in the Berlin Stock Exchange, where together with the ministers of the other European Union, he is considering the situation with partners from Croatia and is preparing for the coming season from the world. I think it is very important at a time when we talk about Croatian tourism, when only a few sentences of the results achieved by Croatian tourism in 2008 as a year that was equally demanding, are also very much expected to be mentioned from Croatian tourism, the year in which both oil prices and fuel prices and global crisis were raised in the 10th month, and Croatian tourism has never achieved better results so far where we have had an increase in the number of overnight stays and an increase in the number of arrivals and the increase in total foreign exchange income where we have achieved more in the first 9 months than in the whole period of 2007. And this should be emphasized that in 2008, so in the past year, in the year when we recorded significant successes, our competition, the countries that you will agree to, know what tourism is and represent something in tourism in the world, which are Italy and France, record significant declines. Of course, the Ministry of Tourism these days, especially after the decision of the Croatian Government and after the conclusion where the Ministry of Tourism had committed itself to making measures and anti-recession measures under the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on proturecestic measures. He is working very actively on drawing up this document that will refer to the Croatian government for decision. In the drafting of this document or these measures, we have included all relevant experts, prominent experts in Croatia, and within the deadline we will also direct and deliver it to the Croatian Government and we believe that, considering the overall situation, we will propose what Croatia should at this time and that it will be able to accept it. But I will also stress the fact that we are also following the situation in the world. It should not be forgotten that the World Tourism Organisation changed its forecasts four times last year about the world-wide results of tourism achievements last year. It should not be stressed that the World Tourism Organisation announced a fall for this market this year. We announced in the Ministry of Tourism, brought in an 11-month increase in the funds for joint advertising where we have allocated significant funds and where we are already on our way to joint advertising at the 11th month, and these days we are completing the signing of a contract with business entities in tourism where we have a very good response. And of course after the Berlin Stock Exchange, we will gather all representatives of the Croatian Tourist Board in key markets, do a detailed analysis and bring about a forecast for the next period. I believe that next week in this regard we will be much more concrete and we believe that with the proposal for anti-recession measures that we will deliver to the Government, we will be concrete and we expect much from it. I will just point out here that the Ministry of Tourism in Labour, overall work and overall activities include all partners in the portfolio and we jointly expect the engagement of all, and employers, and associations in tourism and all those who can help us at this point to get this demanding tourist season through with the best results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28518	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28519	By your reply, Mr. Secretary of State, you have not mentioned the graduates at any time and what Prime Minister Sanader recommended. You absolutely agreed with the graduates and with me that this measure was truly unbullencing and that only one immature government could suggest it, a government that didn't graduate, but that's why the graduates... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28520	He can't even be a candidate if he didn't graduate, so 18 years should be his age, so it turns out the government is underage. Now, these are the inmoderations that lead nothing but the caricing of the Parliament and go to the hands of those who want and represent it in public. That immodestness and exaggeration in everything. When will we Parliamentarians first start respecting ourselves and expect others to respect us? It's Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28521	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is directed towards the prime minister of the government. In fact, the fact is that our economy is being maintained, it literally maintains thanks solely to its abilities in some moments in the absence of an overall industrial strategy. The fact is that the government has adopted one package of measures, anti-recession measures, but also a fact without deadlines, without carriers, without certainty of these measures, and throughout that package, the wood industry as one of the very important economic branches continues to experience its dramaticism. The fact is that somewhere around 15,000 people in the wood industry are out of jobs and the fact is that the wood industry runs out of contracts on world markets. And it is also a fact that the wood industry is one, literally the only industry economic branch based on renewable and domestic raw materials, I mean Croatian forests. The fact that it exports 70% of total production, that in its production 90% of domestic raw materials benefits and the fact is that it is not known to the Croatian public and I think it is necessary to present that the total income of the wood industry in 2007 was 200 million more than shipbuilding. The wood industry had 7.8 without the total income of Croatian forests, with Croatian forests 10 and shipbuilding had 7.6 billion. That the wood industry employs 25,000 people and the shipbuilding of 12,000 people. I have no intention of underestimating shipbuilding but I intend to give it to the importance of the wood industry, which is very little to talk about and is extremely much beneficial. I must say that the Resorbed Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy gives the maximum support to the wood industry, however, this support is literally insufficient because if we compare the Croatian forests that are levers in the development of the wood industry and the combined pots with the wood industry, that Croatian forests have 30% less income per employee than the wood industry and that they have paid 90 percent higher wages than the wood industry and we believe and the wood industry think that Croatian forests do not provide adequate support. My question is specific. In fact, the Assembly Committee held a thematic session that adopted 12 measures. And the question, what measures from the conclusion of the Assembly Committee will the Government support, within what deadlines and will the Government ensure that the Croatian forests allow the wood industry with which measures and deadlines further development and what is very important to increase the additional value of our natural wealth, are Croatian forests?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28522	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28523	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, first of all, I want to convince you that what Mrs. Representative said earlier is not true. And now if I wanted to be ironic, then I'd say we'll wait until the trial of that lawyer is over and maybe we'll hire him to defend the truth, but we'll leave it for another occasion. But as for the election and who will vote for who in May I can tell her even though she left here, the Croatian Democratic Community will win the May elections as it was in the elections four years ago. Now, as far as your question is concerned. In the Ministry of Regional Development, we predicted 60 million kunas for the woodworking industry this year. Croatian forests, to which you rightly appeal, have already done something, and this is a very, very strong measure, which is that they have reduced 150 million kuna prices for wood mass. So 150 million kunas from the Croatian Forests plus 60 million kuna budgets in the Ministry of Regional Development, it is already one big support for the woodworking industry. And in that sense, of course we'll see what measures exist, of course this isn't enough. We're aware of that. You're right when you point that out and we all insist on it together, but it's also the fact that what I said in one previous answer to the question, we need to stabilise public finances through the rebalance of the state budget first. And then we'll look over the years, monitor the development and see where and how we can be further in debt so that we can help. At the moment when we cut on the flat side of the cost, when there are still different thoughts on income, which is still to include to strengthen the revenue side, of course we can't think about concrete additional measures. But that this remains a permanent task with these 150 million reductions in the price already made by the Croatian forests with 60 million support from the ministry of Minister Cobankovic. I think it's at this point as a first measure, that they're quite enough, that they're finally enough isn't right and it can't be right, and we're going to be working on it for the next months and we're sure to do everything we can to make that industry that's becoming, that's developing a new paradigm than it was until yesterday, that doesn't export the logs, and imports a finished final product, so that trend is getting smaller and smaller that we're going to give full support as much as we can. At this point, that's what I said, and over the year we'll see more.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28524	We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure before you do. Gordana Sobol here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28525	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to oral parliamentary matters between Article 180 and Article 184 have been violated. Mr. Prime Minister, in response to the representative's question of a concrete representative, before he began to answer, he commented on a question that before that was asked by a female representative to someone else in the government. You, Mr. Prime Minister, could then ask a representative to speak instead of the secretary of state and comment on what she was saying, and not in this way, to comment on the private situation. I'm asking you to warn Mr. Prime Minister as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28526	I'm not going to warn anyone, because it's always the 10 people who raise for the breach of Rules of Procedure that one eight is not founded. And in response to which the prime minister or minister will give, it is not strictly prescribed exactly what he can illustrate his answer and on what issues, and therefore this time it can be said that the Prime Minister has started from a wider line to a rope. Thank you. Mr. Koračević's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28527	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm happy for you too, for the pay phone and here in Parliament, and it would be good for you to mention this wood industry more often and we are sure that the wood industry would welcome your arrival in any wood industry as you came from 240 million in Split Shipyard completely justified, but believe one such play and the wood industry is certainly worth it. The fact that both here in Parliament and in the government and throughout the whole series of ministries, the state service is furniture from Italy. The fact that all these sports halls, handball parquet is from imports and the fact is that this wood industry needs concrete help. My question was very specific about the conclusions of the thematic session. I'm asking you a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28528	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Marin Jurjevic is January 28th 2009. The Ministry of Justice referred the question, Marija Lugaric, 20 January 2009, Romana Jerkovic, 6 February 2009. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports these last two questions. I ask that within eight days, this ministry answer the parliamentary questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the current morning is over. The remainder of the session is at 3:30 p.m. with the agenda of the draft Law amending the Law on electronic trade with the Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28529	Dear MPs and MPs continue the session. We move to the agenda and this is the first item of the agenda: 1. Proposal for a law amending the law on electronic trade, with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 275; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tamara Obradović-Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28530	... We have adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Trade for the years. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What does Article 3 say? Article 3 refers to the provider of information society services based in the Republic of Croatia which is obliged to act and provide services in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Article 4 regulates the exceptions to Article 3 in the case where the provider of services, therefore, the provider of information society services appears without the headquarters of the Republic of Croatia or where it has its head office in one of the Member States of the European Union. Last year, by proposing this law, we passed one advisory, one advisory round of talks, technical consultations with the European Commission, and their green light on the time-exposure of Article 4 relating to the addition of the relevant directive in the section relating to the exemption from Article 3. It means the exemption of those activities from, for example, copyright, other related rights in the area of real estate, financial services and the part relating to contractual obligations made by consumers. However, looking at the reports on the held negotiations for Chapter 10 of October last year, so after the law was passed, which covered the re-audit of the Capital Markets Act, it was up to the 611 of the '85 Directive. the years and the Insurance Act referred to in Directive No. 49 from '92. Year and 357 of 1988. The European Commission has concluded that a higher level of financial services and insurance services, as well as life insurance, should also be listed in the exceptions covered by Article 4. And with the explanation that the definition that we've done together with these two of our laws has been set too wide. The European Commission therefore wanted to see exactly those directives and their chapters to which these exceptions are called. And it is specifically about insurance contracts providing coverage in two or more Member States where at least one insurance is mandatory. In view of the establishment and freedom to carry out insurance operations. In that part, the Commission wanted, and in the implementation of the Insurance Act and the Capital Market Act, that the whole indent described in the current law be extended to the numbers, i.e. the names of the Directives and their heads, so that these three laws would have a concrete reference to the directives when it comes to the provision of services by a service provider without a seat in the Republic of Croatia. So in relation to the applicable law, amendments and additions we adopted last year, we extend this very indent relating to the material part of insurance and capital markets in a way that introduces the numbers and names of specific directives that regulate the capital and insurance market area. There are no other changes other than the part relating to the industrial property supplement and in the implementation of the procedural part of the changes in relation to the applicable law. So, in short, it's all because it's only about changing one article. On the basis of this, as I said, the re-audited revision of this law combined with the revision of the Capital Market and Insurance Act of October and as a prerequisite for closing Chapter 10. Information society and the media. So, a round of consultations that took place 3, 4 months after we adopted the original amendments and additions to the e-commerce law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28531	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28532	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed secretary. By adopting the 2002 Electronic Signature Act, Croatia started with the process of creating a legal environment necessary for the successful creation, operation and development of an information society. The e-commerce law applicable from 8 November 2003 also provides information society services. The adoption of this law was extremely important because we thus enabled the development of electronic trade in the business sector, i.e. the development of electronic business in the Republic of Croatia. Since the area of electronic trade, therefore, purchases and sales via the Internet, is probably the form of marketing and trade that shows the largest expansion and provides... We believe that there will also be frequent and continuous changes to the rules at European Union level in the coming period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is certain that they will be more frequent than in other areas. The aim of this should primarily be to protect the rights of participants in the process of trade via the Internet. It is also certain that further liberalisation can be expected. Digital technology can also be seen as the cornerstone of the global economy, as well as global sales. The information coded in bits gives unsuspecting possibilities. From a working room or living room, we can become part of a virtual, digital world in seconds, shop on all continents, examine goods almost simultaneously among dozens of producers in different cities of the world, conduct different transactions. However, precisely because of such opportunities, electronic trade also brings different challenges and different dangers, the system is therefore obliged to protect the rights of participants in the process of trade, as well as to respect national legislation. And that is why these regulations, that is, this amendment that we are proposing today, also provides for certain restrictions and exceptions when it comes to international trade on the Internet. It should be noted that the adoption of this law, in particular the amendments to Article 4. The e-commerce law is also our obligation, or criterion, to be taken over when Chapter 10 is closed. Information society and the media. In fact, the European Commission has insisted that certain provisions of the Insurance Act and the Capital Market Act are also implemented. In fact, the European Commission also believes that in our law on electronic trade, too many exceptions have been defined in the application of the general rules in relation to the solutions defined by the home directive and its addition. They consider that such regulations affect the freedom to provide information society services on the single market of the European Union or to restrict the possibility of providing such services on the market of the Republic of Croatia in the event that they are providers of such services or providers of those services to the company established in other countries. Therefore, the amendment to this law is important because we are in line with the European Union Directive and the European Commission's recommendations. With this change, we are going to further liberalise electronic trade. It is also defined that when performing certain services when it comes to service providers registered in the field of the European Union and operating or providing services in the Republic of Croatia, they are also obliged to respect national regulations, meaning all that is defined as an exception to the amendments to the law. In line with the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Electronic Trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28533	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28534	Dear Mr. Vice President, honored Madam Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is another European law, so the proposal to amend the Law on Electronic Trade. The measure of the amendments we are considering today is the obligation of an information society service provider to act and provide services in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations of the Republic of Croatia. In short, this obligation on the obligation that it is somewhat incomprehensible in a law that is before us, as a picture of a picture or a former one, refers only to providers of information society services established and having a centre in the Republic of Croatia. Exceptional popularity and unsustainable growth have long since made the Internet an inevitable medium of modern life. Good and perspective ideas spread through the Internet and fertilize at an incredible rate. As a result of the use of information technology and related activities, economic activities are used worldwide in both administrative and economic business. The fact is that it is precisely the great international information and information link between the countries in the markets, trade and industry that has led or at least has accelerated the spillover of financial and all other crises from the United States to other parts of the world, including Croatia. While the most affected branches of the economy, we only mention the financial and construction industry, suffer huge losses, and release tens of thousands of workers, information and communication technologies and the technology-based industries, the global crisis has only ticked and even in Croatia. Here these days, even Croatian Telecom has paid the dividend fee, and together with other telecoms, they happily add billions of minutes spent to discussions with billions of SMS messages sent and eventually add billions of kunas of revenue. Thus, the anti-recession measure proposed by the Government in the Republic of Croatia, for example, is an additional tax on SMS messages. I guess that'll get us out of the crisis together with the seniors in the country. Highly specialized ICT personnel are difficult or almost impossible to find. In the global electronic economy and ICT industry, numerous mergers are also announced, because such an industry is seen today as an oasis of salvation for those who have excess cash. And even in JP Morgan, they mention that only at the level of the United States there is a respectable sum of about 80 billion more stable dollars, intended for these very processes. Let's remember that even the unbelievers were suspicious until the moment Google solved the bag and paid incredible billions and $650 million for Youtube. When such an Internet communication technology project is launched, a series of elements to be taken into account, from realisation to ideas through realisation, project design, programmers, hostings, security, etc. However, one of the most important details is the good regulation of the project, so it is no wonder that in the electronic economy, the European Union is trying to catch up to all its strengths with the United States and also to arrange its legal environment in accordance with its interests to promote electronic trading and to arrange it even if it was an extremely complex area. European Commissioner Viviane Reding explained to the European ministers a few days ago that the information and communication technology sector is a driver of the economy and called for greater investment in this branch of industry. In short. And the European view is that for the economy it is based on information and communication technology and for ICT companies the crisis is actually an opportunity. Therefore, as regards the process of joining the Republic of Croatia in full membership of the European Union, it is not surprising that the completion of compliance with the EU acquis in the field of electronic trade has been defined as one of the criteria or the main criterion for closing the negotiating chapter 10. - Information society and the media. The subject chapter was only provisionally closed for negotiations at an intergovernmental conference on the accession of the Republic of Croatia held in December 2008. In addition to the Law on Electronic Signature, the Law on Electronic Trade and the consistent application of standards such as ISO 27001 relating to the requirements set out in the management of IT security systems are conditions without which this sector cannot operate. All of this above also requires a good and functional quality infrastructure especially in the field of accreditation and standardisation, which is fortunate and the case since quality infrastructure is one of the few light points in our approach to the European Union, and in all the progress reports of the Republic of Croatia. These sectors traditionally get the best grades. However, the Law on Electronic Trade itself is here after only a few months again on the Parliament's agenda, and let's remind ourselves that it is in the opening statement of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade with the final proposal for a law bearing the code P.Z. 81 of June this year. The applicant's representative stressed that it is necessary to complete its compliance with Directive 2000/31EC which was, in fact, the reason for the adoption of the law in the summer of last year. And that alignment is done. And I quote the reasoning of that law. It is noticeable that in the text of the law set out here, therefore, in the light of this law, which is before us: “It is noticeable that this text of the law does not directly refer to the directives of the European Union to which the solution contained in the addition of Directive 2031EC which the Commission has resented." Either the Commission gave us a hard turn of arms and laid down certain conditions or that certificate of conformity of the law we passed in June last year was mildly spoken a little poetically. Furthermore, following the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in electronic trade, in the subsequent opinion of the European Commission's competent services on solutions to such a law, it has been assessed that they are too wide for the application of exceptions in accordance with the provisions of the Directive. So again, we ask the question on what criteria has this declaration of conformity been adopted? It will be more likely that the European Commission has actually forced or sought to impose some solutions on itself, and has proposed that the full compliance of the law with the directive in question be implemented by direct adoption of the text of the Appendix to the Directive. It is also a rhetorical question whether we have done the right thing in this concept to draw up the final text of this law on amendments and amendments to the law, and with the aim of implementing the above-mentioned directive after we have given up on this Commission's reluctance to determine the term by descriptive means, but are now directly referred to in the law to specific regulations of the European Union and to quote the letters of their directive and certain regulations which are recognised in the light of this law are not in the spirit of the Croatian legal system. However, this law is not precedentd because the same modusus has been applied in other laws, so the question arises at which point and in how long we will discuss this same law again. We could de facto put it in a constant agenda item at each session by constantly correcting it, since in the procedure under me, the amendments to one of the directives mentioned in the very text of this law are made available to me. So the moment this directive changes, then we have to change the whole law. Dear Madam Secretary of State while you were working at the Ministry of European Integration, such things did not happen because you were able to negotiate a valid approach and that a reasonable solution to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia was implemented and not by such brutal dictatorships of our forces on and on what should be done and on what should not be done. So, what is the guarantee that after this urgent procedure, we will not need a super ultra mega emergency procedure when tomorrow something in European legislation changes again, which is certainly going to happen because, as we said, ICT technology and electronic business is actually the most vital sector uncircumcised by the crisis, and therefore the European Union's consequent interest in imposing such solutions on us too so that we can do business with us normally. The SDP will support this law, hoping that it will even contribute modestly to the growth of the entire Croatian economy and exit from the recession crisis, as the ICT sector in modern business is integrated into the entire infrastructure of all companies, either productive or non-productive. So a slight shift in economic recovery will result in a major recovery of the overall ICT sector. We also hope that this fact will be adopted by the Government in the recent budget rebalancing and will pay more attention to this most vital part of the knowledge society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28535	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28536	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I would correct my colleague's incorrect claim that the reasoning of this law is incomprehensible, and then it goes that picture to the picture that someone has turned our hands, that it's brutal dictatorships, etc. So none of this is true, very precise and clearly explained by the law, and said the secretary of state. So, by the end of the negotiations with the European Commission, the European Commission has accepted the way in which we implemented Directive 2000/31 in order to conclude, before the closure of Chapter 10, the Information Society and the media, that it is necessary to cover two more laws such as the Insurance and Capital Market Act. So, in the negotiations nothing unusual, nothing extra, there is no brutal pressure, but simply until the closure of the chapter, the European Commission has the right to make further remarks and to correct this in this way, i.e. to bring it into line.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28537	Thank you. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the esteemed representative of Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28538	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The area of electronic trade in the legal system of the European Union is governed by Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2000. The Law on Electronic Signature 2002 and the 2003 Law on Electronic Trade opened the process of creating the legal framework necessary for the functioning and development of the information society. According to the Law on Electronic Trade, the provider of information society services based in the Republic of Croatia is obliged to act and provide services in accordance with the laws and regulations, of course, of the Republic of Croatia. This legal obligation does not apply to service providers whose head office is located in a Member State of the European Union and which offers information society services, even in cases where the service is targeted towards citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In some areas of work and action, however, foreign providers of information society services are always subject to Croatian legislation. According to the 2003 law, it was the next 8 areas. Copyright and intellectual property rights, electronic money emissions, validity in relation to the form of contracts which are created or transferred to real estate rights, activities of insurance companies, contractual obligations arising from and related to consumer contracts, the freedom of contracting parties to choose the right to apply to their contract, the tolerance of unrequested commercial communications by electronic mail and the transport of medicinal products, medical products and homeopathic products. In June of last year, the proposing amends the Law on Electronic Trade, which amends two of the eight of these areas. Valuability relating to the form of contracts which are created and transferred rights related to real estate and other activities of insurance companies. And a new area is added, advertising investment funds. Now we have another amendment to the law, even though the last one has been executed recently. The change concerns precisely these exceptions in which Croatian legislation applies to information society service providers based in the European Union. Of course, the HNS has nothing to do with all the legislative changes arising from the process of harmonising the legislative framework, but what bothers us is the approach in the formulation of legislative changes. This latest amendment repeats six of the nine exceptions adopted in the same formulation, one disappears, the transport of medicinal products and homeopathic products, and two areas, two exceptions, and this area is regulated by special regulations in the capital market and the area governed by a special insurance regulation is given an incredible formulation. Instead of a detailed explanation of what this is about, the amendments state that they must be applied by letter and by the number of provisions set out in the seven European directives. We ask the question why it does not say what exceptions are here, instead of listing seven directives, or parts of their provisions to be applied. These are Croatian laws for Croatian citizens, but also for citizens of other countries when they appear as service providers on our market. They must be clear, understandable and self-sufficient in original interpretation and understanding. Otherwise, it would be sufficient to count in every law of the European Directive that applies to the powers to which the law applies and does not develop anything, so that everyone reads the directives, not Croatian laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28539	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, after these opening presentations of clubs, just a few sentences, I won't be long around the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Trade. First of all, of course, I support every amendment that is necessary to bring our legislation in line with European Union legislation and of course it may not be possible to all foresee that the European Union and the negotiation process also speak of certain things that need to be subsequently introduced into the draft law. On that side, I'll support these changes, but I wanted to say one other thing, which is maybe a little bit at first glance, doesn't have a concrete foothold in this law, but it's very interesting. When we talk about trade last year, we discussed a lot about the Law on Trade, on Sundays, on unhappiness on Sundays or on how we protect Croatian workers in trade during Sundays. And so it happened that now trade chains except of course gas stations that have slowly turned into shopping chains and certain other stores don't work on Sundays. But in this segment, certain trade chains have taken advantage of the possibility and they continue to work on Sundays. So a lot of already traded chains have e-commerce, i.e. the possibility of ordering goods and their shops during the internet that are supplied neatly on Sundays. Well, I'd be here right now, apparently it doesn't have anything to do with each other, but the same activity is being done. It is about trade chains which means they shouldn't work during the week but means their people in delivery and those who issue accounts work and specifically their shopping centres don't work. And that's one inconsistency. I am not saying, of course, that e-commerce should be banned on Sundays because it is almost impossible or impossible, but I want to point out the illogicalness that came from the Trade Act where certain trade chains cannot work on Sundays in one way, but in particular, via electronic trade, they can still work uninterrupted. And I think things like that should be handled when laws are proposed because one thing can't rule out another. Here, I just wanted to say those two sentences, three of which we see in essence how some laws are closely connected and on the other hand, their application is totally illogical on the examples of one and the same commercial houses that, by one law, can carry out their trade activities and cannot, by the other law, do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28541	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28542	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In today's modern world of rapid technological development, electronic data exchange, internet communication and very fast overall development of electronic literacy and the application of modern forms of computerised business in the business sector, but in everyday personal life it is inevitable to ensure good legal regulation in this area. One of these areas is the area of electronic trade regulated by the European Parliament Directive in the legal system in mid-2000. This Directive provides for legal support, legal solutions and certain legal frameworks for the adoption of rules on electronic trade in the Member States of the European Union. Of course, there is a rapid spread of technological progress in Croatia, that we also have online communication affecting all the pores of society, and this inevitably imposes the creation of legal frameworks in which this activity will take place. Thus, the Electronic Signature Act governing electronic business systems was adopted. The Law on Electronic Trade has been adopted, setting the legal basis and legal environment for the necessary and successful creation, operation and development of the information society. The adoption of this Law on Electronic Trade has enabled the legal opening of a new area, the activities of citizens' economic operators and state institutions, which is the business of the provider of information society services, the regulation of the process of commercial communication and the responsibility of participants in electronic business. In the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquiss of the European Union, this area should also be aligned with that directive. As a result, in 2008, the Law amending the Law on electronic trade was adopted implementing the Appendix to Directive 2000/31 of the European Community. The European Commission considers that we have made too wide an exception in Article 4(2) and proposes that the text of the Appendix Directive be directly downloaded. Under the broader definition of the exceptions, the European Commission considers that the possibility of providing information society services on the Croatian market is limited to providers of these services from other Member States of the European Union. Here, and that is why the amendments to this law are proposed. However, I would like to say that Article 4 of the direct law in question enters into force on the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Here, I have tried really briefly and transparently to show the series of jobs and activities that have been done so far in the legal regulation of this area, the activities and its adaptation to the European legal normative, and I see no significant reason not to accept this bill. That is why I propose that it be accepted in the proposed text by emergency procedure because I do not see the need to go through regular procedures because it is necessary to complete the harmonisation of Chapter 10 – the information society and the media so that it can be closed as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28543	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28544	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Information and communication technology is the basis of knowledge societies which have a significant impact on competitiveness and economic success, but networked technology and communication is not in itself enough, their development and application require new ways of working but also innovative and productive use of knowledge. And their application and use of the bases are for the successful operation of science and entrepreneurship, and therefore the economy as a whole. It is therefore necessary to continuously create conditions for the smooth spread and application and for the research and development of this technology as well as for products and services based on it. The Republic of Croatia started with the process of creating the legal environment necessary for the successful creation, operation and development of the information society and continued with the adoption of the Law on Electronic Trade which regulates the provision of information society services since 2003. The area of electronic trade in the European Union system has been regulated, as we have already heard from the 2000 Parliament and Council Directive, whose purpose is to provide legal support, offer legal solutions and frameworks for the adoption of rules on electronic trade in the Member States of the Union. The addition of the Directive was implemented in 2008 when the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on electronic trade was adopted. I would like to remind you that this is an article 1 which regulates the exceptions to the application of Article 3. The e-commerce law. The definition of these exceptions after the subsequent opinion of the European Commission's service on the text of the law has been assessed as too wide for the application and proposed that the full compliance of the law with the Directive and its addition be carried out by direct adoption of the text of the Appendix to the Directive. Therefore, the European Commission considers that the solutions contained in Article 4(2), subparagraphs 4 and 9. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade constitutes too wide-ranging exceptions in the application of the general rule in relation to the solutions contained in the Directive and directly affecting the freedom to provide information society services on the European Union market, but also restricts the possibility of providing such services on the market in the Republic of Croatia for service providers from other Member States of the European Union, which, of course, is not acceptable for the European Union. This particular proposal corrects the above. I therefore support this proposal, meaning from this, which is to comply with EU rules, and for the reasons why it resolves and assumes the obligations of the Republic of Croatia when closing Chapter 10. - Information, society and media, but also for another reason, which is that this proposal contributes to the achievement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's objective in this segment, which is the availability and quality of information communication infrastructure to be maintained at the level of the highest European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28545	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28546	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow State Secretary, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Therefore, as already stated here, the Law on Electronic Trade regulates the provision of information society services, the responsibility of the provider of information society services, and certain rules regarding the conclusion of the contract in its electronic form. However, they do not apply to data protection, in the field of taxation, public notary activity, party representation and protection of their interests against courts, games of chance, including lottery games and casinos, gambling games and gambling games on automatics, and in accordance with the provisions of specific laws governing these areas. As is said, the basic act that regulates and develops the electronic business system in Croatia is the Law on the Electronic Signature of the "National Journal", 2002./2008. While the Law on Electronic Trade "National Journal", 2003./2008. arrange the provision of information society services. By adopting the Law on Electronic Signature, the Republic of Croatia has begun the process of creating a legal environment necessary for the successful creation, operation and development of an information society, which has continued to be adopted by the Law on Electronic Trade, which has been applicable since 8 November 2003. The e-commerce law is in line with the existing contractual law of the Republic of Croatia, and special attention is paid to some of these following objectives when establishing the proposed law, which is the compliance of the law with Directive 2000/31 of the EC, in line with the law of the Republic of Croatia. it enables the smooth operation of the information society service provider, its activity and its compliance with the applicable laws relating to such and such companies, the definition of information which must be clearly and not ambiguously formulated and made available at any time to all participants, regulation of the commercial communication process, and ensuring the equivalence of the contracts which are drawn up in that electronic form. It is clear that the adoption of the Law on Electronic Trade has regulated a new area of action both economic operators and citizens and state institutions that have not been regulated by law until then. But also this new regulation came from a new and fast technological development. The lack of that regulation was, firstly, a significant obstacle to the development of electronic trade in the business sector, as well as the general development of electronic business in the Republic of Croatia. In the legal system of the European Union, the area of electronic trade is governed by Directive 2000/31 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2000 on certain legal aspects of electronic trade, which are regulated on the internal market, i.e. the number 2000/31 EC. The purpose of that Directive is to provide the right support, to offer legal solutions and to lay down legal frameworks for the adoption of rules on electronic trade in the Member States of the Union. In order to comply with the provisions of European legislation, i.e. several times in the Directive, it is necessary to complete the harmonisation of the Law on Electronic Trade, but to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade. It is noted that the established text of the law does not directly refer to the Directives of the European Union which it refers to, as set out in that Appendix to the EC Directive, and therefore the European Commission has proposed that the full compliance of the law with the Directive and its add-on be implemented by the adoption of the text of the Appendix to the Directive. As stated by the European Commission, the opinion was that these solutions are contained in the text of Article 4(2), presented as too wide-ranging exceptions, given that those amendments are defined in a somewhat narrow form. It is considered that the wider definition of exceptions in the application of the general rule and the solutions contained in the Directive affect the freedom to provide information-market services, i.e. information society on the single market of the European Union, or restricts the possibility of providing those services on the market of the Republic of Croatia to providers of those services from other Member States of the European Union, in a greater volume than provided for and permitted by that Appendix to the Directive on electronic trade, which is not acceptable in the opinion of the European Commission. Following the above, it is indicated that it is necessary to implement the correction of the text of the law and to comply with the abovementioned position of the European Union, in particular with the fact that the amendment to Article 4. The electronic trade law adopted as an obligation when closing Chapter 10. Information society and the media. In this respect, we point out in particular that the obligation to complete compliance with the acquis of the European Union in the field of electronic trade has been set as a criterion for closing the negotiating chapter 10. Information society and the media. The subject chapter was provisionally closed for negotiations at an intergovernmental conference on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU in December 2008. With regard to the above, a new proposal for Article 4(2) has been drawn up, with reference to the directive set out in the Appendix to the Directive of 2000. Since it is self-descriptive to implement the definition of these concepts and areas, as well as that practically all other members of the European Union have implemented harmonisation of this part of the rules by specifying those Directives. In accordance with Article 4 of the original law, the ‘National Journal’ of 173/03, and in accordance with Article 16 thereof, should be pointed out. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade shall enter into force on the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. It is understood that I will support such a proposal for a law amending the Law on Electronic Trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28547	Thank you. Now it is up to the honourable representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28548	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here are a few words on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Electronic Trade, with the final proposal for a law, which is part of the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. This law is specific, especially in the context of penetration, or of allowing penetration of information and communication technologies into wider social frameworks, what we often call information society. When we talk about such legal frameworks and their relations with basic technologies, then it certainly seems to me that all of this deserves perhaps a little more attention regarding the analysis of the information-communication sector, an analysis of the information-communication industry which is the main driver and which is the part that forms these legal frameworks in a way that allows the application of certain technologies that have reached a certain level of maturity and can be commercialised and can be commercially applied. This sign and this level, I would say, the graduation of certain technologies is transformed into certain laws and in this way technology, technological development, technological growth, technological society provides a new type of service and is created by one of the most promising parts of the modern economy, etc. industrial technological ICT sector. I used to have opportunities, years ago, to talk to people who had established a silicon valley and who were in a position to create legal frameworks for knowledge technologies, software, everything that they designed as engineers. This was a very important and valuable experience that later spread from the silicon valley around the world and allowed commercial or technological research that reached a level of certain applicability to become part of a highly pro-pulsive industry with high value added rates of high growth. This type of legislation, the design of legislation in the technology sector belongs to the developed and most developed. Those who are not are in a position like us to accept part of the legislation that has been shaped by those whose industrial technology sectors are more developed. Certainly, it would be ideal if one day some Croatian companies would happen to the information and communication sector by their innovations, by their commercialisation of their technologies, define their patents a new type of service and contribute to the visibility of Croatian knowledge society with services, not only in these areas, but also beyond. And I would say a good example exactly what happened recently in Estonia, which is because of the fact that everything we're saying is, and the assumption is a high level of security of computer networks. The creation of the so-called so-called creation. centres of excellence that can prevent different types of sabotage of information and communication technologies in applications that are extremely sensitive like this, is a very important and perspective area. In this sense, in Estonia, a center of excellence has been created which specializes in the so-called so-called "Station of Excellence". Cyber security. In any case, when we talk about these laws, it is not too much to observe, look at these laws from this technological aspect, from this development aspect, from this economic and industrial aspect, hoping that the Croatian information sector can and must have potential, but I would say it can and must have an idea to commercialise its knowledge and patents in the interest of the growth of the Croatian economy and its competitiveness. However, this thing is neither simple nor trivial, and very often the next problem is that people who are able to make top quality products have patent problems have problems commercialising their engineering skills. In order for this process of positive synergy between technology, funding and the legal framework to happen then it is necessary to create I would say social circumstances that allow this positive spin off. There are companies in Croatia that have these abilities and should be encouraged. In any case, for the support of electronic trade, there may be a great opportunity for Croatian mail. Why not? All those paper transactions that have been part of one traditional, classical I will say so-called paper trade provide an opportunity for Croatia to transform to and this type of service that today is worth several hundred million kunas by substituting new technologies and transforming itself into a new company that will take the appropriate place not only on the Croatian market for electronic trade but perhaps wider. That it is no abstraction and that is not an illusion I will say that Slovenian mail has made this kind of transformation and that they offer this kind of service. Any such law, any such challenge behind which certain technologies stand should be recognized at the same time in the Croatian industry as a great and important opportunity for our universities, for our institutes. Now we'll be talking soon, I don't know about the laws that are related to technology, improving the quality of knowledge, education, etc. Without connecting all of this to a functional whole, there is no final industrial, economic aspect and effect and we expect that in Croatia, the digital economy, etc. such positive spins should occur in the future. Assumptions of what we are talking about today are already passed laws such as the Digital Signature Act and it should be said that the level of infrastructure that exists in the information and communication sector in the Croatian economy is such a level that it really should be viewed as a good economic opportunity for that part of the technology industry, that part of the technology sector. All together, it should be possible to increase the competitiveness of Croatian companies and their compatibility in electronic trade regardless of who they are trading with. The basic characteristic of digital economy and digital trade is the fact that distance, i.e. space does not mean inaccessibility. And that fact should be fully used in the future. Cyber security, cyber text, etc. They represent areas that can be a very important and significant challenge in the context of the process of modernisation, restructuring and strengthening the competitiveness of Croatian companies and Croatian economies. And this is a good law that will parallel with technology development change. And I would say surprises about the need for such laws to be often I would say maybe annually or every few years innovating are unnecessary and excessive. Because as technologies change, how they change the opportunities that these technologies provide is quite logical and natural to change and legal frameworks. It is precisely that part of the law that belongs to the technology sector in the future that will be updated in the Croatian Parliament. Certainly, perhaps, at an ever-increasing rate and dynamics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28549	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, respected Tamara Obradović-Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If there is something to be said about negotiations, then it is definitely the saying “it is not over until it is over and it is not over yet. ” Therefore, I do not rule out the possibility of seeing each other in the assembly once more by this or by any other law. But I don't want to call on the black screenplay of one of our friendly new Member States of the European Union, which has changed its law, one of my closest public procurement laws specifically six times in half a year. It's called bad communication with the European Commission. Finally, in October, this is also part of the report on the negotiating process, which is referred to the National Committee, this law exempts the part relating to the capital market and insurance is put in the stage of the screening process, i.e. the insight into the other two laws, the Capital Market Act and the Insurance Act, given that two large laws and large directives are concerned. What we had agreed last summer, and that is one broad definition, with the unquote of the directive, the European Commission is higher than the two laws and higher services described in these two laws, so I am not talking about our e-commerce law, and it wanted to specify in a way that there is no doubt, that there is no delusion that the part relating to the insurance sector and the capital market is being drawn directly from the directive. That direct drawback from the directive and regulation is tomorrow our reality. The reality in terms of not only direct application, especially when it comes to regulations, but also the judgments of Croatian courts, civil, commercial, criminal based, for example, on a regulation of the European Union or the judgment of the European Court of Justice, directly in any language to which the judge concerned is served. This can't be translated into Croatian. Tomorrow we have a direct application of the legal gain in our judgments, in our daily lives, and this quote is not precedent. As far as medicines are concerned, I just remind you that in the amendments and additions to Article 16 concerning medicinal products and medicinal products we have put out of force since 1.1.2009. So, the drugs, sir, the counsel, they didn't disappear. We've voted the drugs to stop being covered by this law at 1.1 this year. And as for trade and our shopping habits on Sundays, Sundays other than milk and bread and other things can be ordered by example and books. We won't complain about ordering books for example on Sundays, weekends, deliveries and all that. So we're not just talking about food products. And finally, with respect to the substantive change in this section, which points to the part relating to financial services and the capital market to the respected representative Franic, one thanks first of all to the nice words and to the reminder of a nice, legal period in my career as well as the clearly observed results that have been achieved. Another thanks for one constant emphasis on quality infrastructure, which is indeed at a high level in Croatia, although I would not personally assess my own strength because if I had been a little stronger, we might not have a liberalised real estate market from February 1st this year. But, well, I thank you all for your suggestions and suggestions and suggestions and for your views, as well as for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28551	And I thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28552	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on electronic trade, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 275. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on electronic trade. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law was passed by a majority vote, 100 votes, 1 abstention and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28553	Point 2, Final draft law on illicit advertising. There's no conditions and we'll skip her. There's no conditions for discussion. And we move to the third point of the agenda, that's 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport, with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 282 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act are more precisely governed by the existing provisions of the law in order to comply with the 2004 European Community regulation governing the requirements for insurance to air carriers and aircraft operators. This obligation arises from the need to complete the first implementation phase of the Agreement on a European Common Aviation Area and constitutes criteria for the closure of Chapter 14 — Transport policy. The amendments and additions to this law are also harmonised and precise according to the requirements of representatives of international organisations that have carried out in accordance with the implementation of the agreement, i.e. the European Common Aviation Area in order to improve aviation in the Republic of Croatia and to comply with the terms of the new Air Transport Act that is in place. In particular, the terms of the air carrier and aircraft operator are defined more precisely, as well as the precision of the provisions governing the insurance of the air carrier. Finally, only for a short time, the implementation of this law does not require the provision of funding from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28555	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Honorary Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 27th session held on 11 March 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport with the Final Proposal for the Law as a parent body. In the introduction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, he pointed out that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and that the adoption of this law constitutes one of the measures necessary to meet the closing criteria in Chapter 14 – Transport policy. This law also complies with Regulation 185 of 2004 governing, among other things, insurance requirements for air carriers and aircraft operators. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament unanimously supported the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt this law by an urgent procedure and to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28557	Thank you. I don't see anyone applying anymore from the board. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and the clubs are up first. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28558	Dear Vice President, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, I will briefly say in one sentence that the Club of Representatives of the SDP supports the proposed law and that we have no objections to the text of the law. But given that there is a unique opportunity for this subject to be talked about and spread in the context of the law, I will take advantage of the opportunity without being warned by the Vice President of the Parliament that I have jumped out of the topic. Namely, I will say one thing as a young representative, my colleague also from the HDZ ranks and another that we are only a year old or full of these benches. We have passed many laws, additions and amendments to the law, but I have a feeling that most of us are not satisfied with what we did not bring, which is that we have resolved some things in harmony, adaptation, the European path of Croatia, which is good, that we were almost unique here. However, what is happening in the country, in the community, in everyday life unfortunately is too rarely the topic we are discussing. The reason for this, this introduction of mine is what happens in the area of mandatory insurance of motor vehicles. We have an agency dealing with regulation of relations, but important changes have not occurred for citizens as owners of motor vehicles or for economic operators as owners of motor vehicles that meet for 30 years. In particular, we'll say next. The fund from which the damages are to be recovered based on these insurance is always in some troubled relationship of loss or at the limit of profitability for the reasons that within, that's why the Americans invented it, which is why we came up with a global crisis, insurance industry, I don't know what industry is, but that's what they call it, there's unfair competition by giving a discount on the first registration of the first insurance that doesn't belong to the holder of that mandatory insurance. This reduces actually the income of the common register and the income of those who need to pay for the damages resulting from it. The second issue is far more important that we for more than 30 years, I couldn't get the information, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia we have risk zones that have been established, some like to say in ancient history, long past, the beginning of the carism from which the following arises. The area of Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorje County or Croatia Zagorje are the highest risk zone and pay the highest compulsory insurance rate. The explanation of the agency is that it is based on statistical data. However, such statistics are nowhere to be found and data based on the 90th are based on our well-known situation that in Zagorje masteral we had slaughter when we had more vehicles than today we have average daily on the Zagreb-Macelj highway, on the old Zagorje master's office, and then there was the fact that an extremely large number of damage claims based on compensation to third parties was empty of the insurance registers. It hasn't changed, and still we are, despite the fact that road infrastructure is still as bad as it was, we have to say, but it hasn't changed, no matter what the number of traffic users who cause alcohol-related accidents and so on, that's what police statistics say, unlike earlier interpretations and prejudices about Zagorje with a lot of drivers under the influence of alcohol. And what's the situation today? Today, you have a situation in Croatia that certain companies, I will not be doing a commercial for them, registering 150 of their 100 motor vehicles in Daruvar. Why in Daruvar? Because it's an area of the lowest risk rate and the lowest basis for payment of compulsory insurance. If Croatian mail registered their vehicles in Vukovar, if the money stayed in Daruvar and Vukovar I would even raise my hand for it. However, since there is no decentralisation, it is similar with the tolls there is no decentralisation of these funds, that vehicles spend both roads and threaten traffic or participate in accidents in the area where they operate and where they are not actually registered then we have a situation that there is neither really in the competition nor in the equal position of citizens in the Republic of Croatia nor a trace when it comes to compulsory insurance. I think that this should be one of the topics of our debate because it is not enough for us to have agencies that care about equality or the equal market match, but that we, in this House or in the committees of this High House, are discussing these problems that lead to certain economic operators making decisions about forming or crafts or companies in those environments. Namely, this is an entire complex that is really problematic in Croatia, we all know it well. The question of paying toll at registration. You have state-owned companies that register all the vehicles in Zagreb or the nearby area while at the same time deru the road in the area, here I will say my friend Gline Marko Sremić has 540 square kilometers of roads and roads, and the roads of the unfalted, the Croatian forests spend them but neither bites from the fuel nor the lack of registration remains Mark Sremić for the area of Gline. I won't talk about others but concrete conversations when we were talking about it. Definitely that these are issues related to decentralisation and fiscal in this part, let's say parafiscal certain obligations and that these are really topics on which the need for this harmonisation is fomented but also gives us the task of putting them on the agenda of our Croatian Parliament, that citizens are not really punished for something they are not guilty of because the damage that is happening in the area of a county does not have to be done by people in the area of that county. They may be extremely correct but the statistics and records of unfortunate events are that it happened in the area and the county and the risk zone automatically increases. I repeat again, we will support the proposal of this law but we think that our ministry and some other competent institutions as well, so if we should both HAC and the stakeholders and representatives of civil society should sit at the table to see some general conditions for the insurance industry that really lives well and doesn't live badly, we should impose some rules of conduct that will benefit all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28559	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28560	Mr. President, since I can't replicate my colleagues, I will use the possibility of correcting an incorrect quote and correcting an incorrect quote, and it is about destroying roads by the Croatian Forests. We have income in our budgets, it is a forest rent that serves the unclassified roads and Polish roads that Croatia's forests orderly at least pay in our budget in Pakrac. Is that enough about that we'll talk about outside. The other thing is, I also came from the area of the town of Pakrac that bears the registration of Daruvar which was mentioned here and I was really surprised a few months ago at the Airport in Dubrovnik where I saw a car rental, I thought it was a confusion, instead of DU they were all wearing the DA registration. So car rental car rentals and car rentals registered at the same time and paid for all these insurance obligations in the area, that's our area of special state interest, a war-torn area where some houses actually use it, registering and paying obligations in our stations and vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28561	Thank you very much. And now we're moving on with the debate. Dear Representative Davor Huška on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28562	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary with an associate, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Here's what counterpart Hanzek said to us young MPs, we always have something special to do with our experiences from local self-government and administration where we would like to highlight some things both in perspective and change everything for the better. I'm not going so wide, I'm going to try to stick to this point, maybe in the end, a few more words about the topic opened by my colleague Hanzek. I will remain on this which is before us and this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, because we see and have heard from Mr Secretary of State that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport are more precisely governed by the existing provisions of the law in the sense of compliance with Regulation No 785/2004. which regulates the requirements for insurance to air carriers and aircraft operators. Namely, the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act contains provisions of the scope of mandatory transport insurance, insurance of air carriers, i.e. aircraft operator liability to passengers, insurance of owners, or shipowners, yachts of liability for damage to third parties. In early 2006 the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement on a European common airspace which we too ratified here in the Croatian Parliament last May. This agreement harmonises the Croatian national legislation in the field of air traffic for the legislation of the European Union. However, the latest report on the implementation of the same agreement, i.e. the Agreement on a European Common Aviation Area, has shown that some further minor amendments and additions need to be made in order to fully comply with the European Union regulation. That is why the adoption of this law constitutes one of the measures necessary to meet the criteria for the closure of Chapter 14. – Transport policy, since the common position of the European Union in Chapter 14 of April 2008 as a criterion for closing the same in the area of air traffic, is set out the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to implement the first phase of the Agreement on a European Common Aviation Area. This law, as already stated, is harmonising with the European Union regulation, which is an obligation under the first phase of that agreement. Furthermore, the amendments and additions to this law are harmonised and specified according to the requirements of the representatives of international organisations that have carried out the verification of the implementation of that agreement, in order to improve aviation in the Republic of Croatia, and to comply with the terms of the new Air Transport Act that is in place. A more precise definition of the terms of the air carrier and aircraft operator and the precision of the provisions governing the insurance of an air carrier, so who, under the term "air carrier", means an undertaking holding a valid operating licence or an equally valuable document, and under the term "air carrier" is a person or body, and is not an air carrier, which has a continuous ability to use or operate by an aircraft physically or legal person to which the aircraft is registered, and is presumed to be an aircraft operator unless it proves that the operator is another natural or legal person. It is also important that the provisions of this Law on the obligation to contract the provision of an air carrier, namely an aircraft operator, of liability for damages to third parties and passengers, apply to all air carriers, or aircraft operator flying within, in, from, from, or through the territory of the Republic of Croatia if the specific regulation or international agreement which binds the Republic of Croatia is not otherwise specified. In addition to that harmonisation, this law also provides for a nomotechnical improvement of certain provisions of the law in order to make it more precise and clearer. To implement this law, there is no need to provide additional funding from the state budget and it is also proposed to pass laws on an urgent procedure because it is adopted to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. Of course, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport, and on the problem opened by counterpart Hanzek, I really think it would be good to talk to both the Ministry of Finance and other institutions, because it is not logical that in our station for technical inspection in the town of Pakrac where we also carry this high risk zone and registration Daruvar, in one day wespa, motor, scooters, private individuals of the vegetables, entrepreneurs bring them from the sea, register them with us, pay away, far less obligations on the insurance policy, and economic activity and income in some quite ten places. I believe that there are possibilities to regulate this, if anything else, that at least certain funds from this type of activity, these motor vehicles of all possible and impossible species that are registered in such a way, that at least part of those revenues that they make from economic activity end up in cash registers, in the budgets of the cities of the local self-government units in which those motor vehicles are registered and registered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28563	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28564	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions to the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act mainly relate to the area of air traffic, as in the process of harmonising our legislation with the legislation of the European Union in the section of Transport Policy, certain deficiencies in the area of law governing the insurance of an air carrier, or aircraft operator, of liability to third parties and air passengers are identified. The existing law defines, among other things, that the flight of the aircraft in relation to the passenger and its personal luggage located in the cabin of the aircraft represents the time of transport of passengers by aircraft. Europe is asking for the passenger and its personal luggage to expand the flight of the aircraft from transport to include their boarding and landing. The provisions of the existing law relating to damages covered by an air carrier insurance contract, i.e. aircraft operators flying within, in, from, from or through the territory of the Republic of Croatia, shall also be amended from liability to third parties and air passengers. Thus far, among other categories, damage has been covered and damages caused by the risk of war and terrorism. Europe is seeking and proposing the law has extended the term to damages due to hijacking, sabotage, illegal acquisition of aircraft and civil rebellion. The Croatian People's Party Club will accept these proposed amendments and additions to the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act, although it is unclear why these amendments and additions were not incorporated into the law when it was passed, if they are generally known and widely accepted facts in the area of air traffic. It is likely that there is insufficient care in the drafting of the existing law, i.e. including adequate European expressions and criteria in our law. You know, it's not a mortal sin to do something wrong or fail to do it out of ignorance, but when European directives are misrepresented, especially the general facts, then it's already very worrying, and we're all wasting both time and energy and budget money because of it. Unfortunately, this is an opportunity to point out that our biggest problem in air traffic is not the expertise and care in the making of laws or indolence in law-making, but the implementation of laws in practice that will allow safe air traffic without the need to compensate passengers and third parties. For a long time, it has been a public secret that there are too few employees in the air traffic administration who do not have enough operational experience from the air force, resulting in a negative assessment of the Croatian Civil Aviation from the US Federal Air Traffic Administration last year. An unfavourable assessment has been made mainly due to delays in the establishment of a civil aviation agency as a national supervisory authority whose task is to certification and continuous supervision of air services providers, i.e. care for the safety of all air traffic in the Republic of Croatia. It is comforting, of course, that the negative assessment does not refer to the quality of Croatian air carriers that meet the world's strictest standards, but also to the lack of compliance of Croatian air traffic policy with world standards, but also Croatian air carriers of course suffer damage. The Agency's founding law came into force in May 2007. The deadline for appointments of the Agency's Council was July 2007. The Government appointed the Agency's Council on 18 April 2008. Not until today, and soon it will be two years from the deadlines, the Agency did not live in practice, did not hire the necessary, appropriate professional people and began to do its job in licensing and monitoring airlines in Croatia according to international standards, which is why no Croatian airline should fly to the United States. There is a huge increase in the Croatian state institutions responsible for the organisation and surveillance of air traffic, that we are still in the company of states such as the Coast of Belarus, Bangladesh, Guyana, Zimbabwe or Nicaragua. The consequences of such a situation in the organisation and surveillance of air traffic can be serious for both business people and tourism. We call on the Governments of the Republic of Croatia to react urgently and adequately in order to stop our country's unpleasant international debauchery and the negative consequences of direct air traffic participants, as well as the overall Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28565	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We listen daily or read about terrible car accidents and the same terrible consequences of these accidents. We get ugly news every day about a lot of people killed or seriously injured in road, rail and air traffic, and lately more and more often in river and sea transport. The consequences of such accidents are numerous, but above all irreparable human casualties and great material damage. And because of both consequences, there are even a large number of court proceedings over damages. Of course, the 2005 Transport Insurance Act has already provided a legal and legal framework containing provisions on the insurance of passengers in transport, provisions on the insurance of an air carrier or aircraft operator, on liability for damage to third parties and passengers. At the same time, the existing law regulates and provides insurance to the owner or user of motor-powered boats and yachts against liability for damage to third parties. Meanwhile, in 2006, the Republic of Croatia signed an Agreement on a European Common Aviation Area, and the aim of the agreement was to fully harmonise Croatian air traffic legislation with EU legislation. This harmonisation of legislation implies the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to implement certain provisions and directives laid down in the agreement in Croatian legislation, in accordance with certain stages set out in the agreement. One of the most important regulations of the agreement is the issue of the amount of foreign security of the air carrier or aircraft operator. We just heard from fellow Vincel that he said that these amendments and amendments to the laws stem from an unserious approach to work in the government and the ministry. However, it is undeniable that the existing law has already been in line with Regulation No. 785 of the 2004 European Parliament, which actually referred to the insurance of an air carrier or aircraft operator from liability for damage to third parties and passengers. But it is also undeniable that the latest assessment report on the implementation of the European Common Aviation Agreement referred to the need for smaller corrections and additions to the existing law so that it would finally and fully comply with the European Parliament's regulation. Indeed, it does indicate that it was not only a problem in our ministry and in the way the ministry works. This harmonisation also completes the first implementation phase of the European Joint Air Transport Agreement and creates assumptions or fulfils the conditions for the closure of Chapter 14. Traffic policy. Many proposed amendments and additions to the law are not essential, but rather no-technically laying down certain provisions of the already existing law, but only with a view to clearer and more precise interpretation in the application of the law. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mandatory Insurance Act makes clear the difference between the owners of other means of transport and the air carrier, i.e. the aircraft operator, but it is also more clearly determined which and what damage is covered by the insurance. I therefore personally support the adoption of this law and what is most important to point out that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of funding from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28567	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28568	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear fellow Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. As is apparent from the material, and the predecessors already have in their discussions and have concluded that this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act is being adopted in order to fully comply with the legal acquis of the European Union in the field of air transport. As in the previous item of the agenda, we have harmonised the measures and criteria related to Chapter 10, so the adoption of this law is one of the measures necessary for the fulfilment of the closing criteria in Chapter 14 and which is called transport policy, because in the common EU position, Chapter 14 of April 2008 as a criterion for closing Chapter 14 in the field of air transport is a specific obligation of the Republic of Croatia to implement the first phase of the Agreement on European common air transport. In this respect, the law also provides for compliance with Regulation (EC) No 785 of 2004. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Agreement on the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’), in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Agreement on the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’). Therefore, the subsequent adoption of this law constitutes one of those measures which are necessary for the fulfilment of the closing criterion in Chapter 14. - Traffic policy. In particular, the common position of the EU in Chapter 14 of April 2008 as a criterion for the closure of Chapter 14 in the field of air traffic was determined by the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to implement the first phase of the Agreement on European air traffic and, in this sense, compliance with Regulation 785 of the EC is carried out. As mentioned in this law, certain provisions of the law are technically developed, and in order to make it more clear and more precise to apply the law itself. To remind you, the Republic of Croatia has laid down provisions in the area of application to the following, mandatory transport insurance, in particular referring to the insurance of passengers in public transport from the consequences of an accident, insurance of the owner, i.e. the vehicle owner of the responsibility for the damage caused to third parties. Therefore, in addition to mandatory traffic insurance, there are also air carrier insurance, i.e. aircraft operator, from liability for damage to third parties and passengers, and insurance of the owner or user of motor-powered boats or yachts from liability for damages to third parties. However, as seen in early 2006, the Republic of Croatia signed an Agreement on a European Common Aviation Area, which was ratified by the Croatian Parliament in May 2008. As clearly stated and indicated, the objective of the agreement is to fully harmonise Croatian national legislation in the area of air transport, and with EU legislation. And by signing this Agreement, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to implement in its legislation the regulations and directives covered by this Agreement, and in accordance with the stages defined in this Agreement. One of the regulations of this Agreement also addresses the question of the amount of insurance of the air carrier, i.e. the aircraft operator governed by law. Although compliance with the relevant EU regulations, i.e. the EC regulation in the part relating to the insurance of an air carrier, i.e. the aircraft operator of liability to third parties and passengers in most parts, has already been carried out through the existing law, this latest assessment report on the implementation of this European Joint Agreement on Air Transport has shown that there is also a need to implement some minor amendments and supplement to our law and to comply with the EU regulation, and so are the amendments to the articles mentioned above, above all, one of 12 of which there are, and these are those which are subject to these amendments personally and related. And not to be too long, of course, that I will accept this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on compulsory insurance in transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28569	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28570	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would refer very briefly to, only in my presentation of colleagues' previous presentations because they actually encouraged me to say a few words about this law or a little bit besides the matter of this law. Then I'll actually end up looking back at this very law that I'm certainly personally supporting, as well as the club I belong to, but everyone here is. My colleague Hanzek and Huška were talking about I would say one moment which is unfortunately a practice which is essentially manipulation in its own way by ensuring such and fully understand them and support the effort to prevent it. But on the other hand, it is also very important to me in mind that one reform decision by the Minister of Health, and very important, particularly inconspicuous and seemingly insignificant, but in fact, it is very important and refers to that segment in which the insurance company pays all the costs incurred in one car accident and which can in fact be enormous and which, in fact, has been avoided so far, in a way that simply this unhappy man was portrayed as not knowing one case that related to his other diagnosis and then all the costs of treatment were reduced to, in fact, to the Health Insurance Fund, and in no way did they do or make insurance houses. Therefore, here is my support, full of support for this, I would say very openly, very fairly, but also correctly that those who actually take responsibility and who actually take the insurance money to actually bear the costs of everyone who stems from what they have already charged for their service. The colleague here also spoke to the HNS representative on behalf of the club and when he spoke of the fact that the lack of some harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia to international standards, then I think that this law actually contributed to compliance with these standards and in any case was a step forward, of course he also supported this law, but his exposure also intrigued me since he mentioned why our planes cannot fly directly to the United States, for example, and this is a question regardless of what the causes are very relevant and very important. And I was personally interested and asked directly in Croatia's insurance in Croatia Airlines why Croatian aircraft, for example Croatia does not fly directly to Toronto? Directly for New York? I've got another explanation, however, whatever the explanation, one national company needs to do everything to actually train itself, to get in a position that can fly to such destinations. For what reason? So we have a national company that also has a national name, but also performs one, I would say not only the obligation to transport passengers, but also one, makes one emotional, one additional component, it is actually our pride, our pride, and in a certain way can be measured as far away as our relatives, our friends, our countrymen in the world from our homeland. Is this country, regardless of what we are talking about, in this case Croatia and our cities, directly related to the flight or not to that destination? Let's just imagine the position, imagine the next day, if God did, here is this contribution and this law, the contribution is that the next day we will certainly have the opportunity to fly directly from Zagreb to Toronto and directly from Zagreb to New York, so no one flies directly from Zagreb, nor can, from Frankfurt to Australia, but at least on the North American continent. This would be one big step forward and one psychological support to all those who live, so to our countrymen in the world and what would make Croatia closer to them, but it would not certainly come to the question of the economics, therefore the cost of these flights. In order to question everything, the Croatian airline would have to, or the Croatian state subsidise such flights in order to actually get up and become absolutely rentable tomorrow. Now I would go back to this very law, this matter which is actually, which here is almost everything and the basic that is yet to be said, I think what I have to repeat because otherwise it cannot actually talk about this matter, that it is important so much that it is in the right sense of the word harmonising with the legislation of the European Union. I would say that this is a good example when you look at this material itself, it's relatively dry, especially for people who aren't in the profession and who don't deal with this matter, but you can actually learn a lot from them. Which actually means harmonising with European standards and what they really mean. So, it's a simple improvement in every sense of the word, in this respect and improving security, improving organisation, improving communication, improving which is actually a guarantee, ultimately and security in air traffic. I would conclude this exposure by making sure that even now in Croatia the airspace, especially when it applies to the national airline, can be said to have been safe so far, that this is one of our contributions that this Croatian airspace will be even more secure in the future, so it will be more compatible with the European company, and when we see that at the end of this legal material, it is said that no material resources are provided because they are not necessary to isolate, then it gives us even more reason to support this law, especially at a time when every coin is very important. So here we actually get a lot, and we don't give anything away, so nothing costs us anything. Here, once again, I join, so I bow to all those who have so far spoken affirmatively about this bill and support it in accordance with all of them and with all the opinions so far, the adoption of this law, the legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28571	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. There is hardly anything against this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport, and I also, as well as all colleagues who spoke individually and on behalf of my clubs, support it. However, this is certainly an opportunity and an opportunity to refer to the control of our own air traffic as our own territory. What kind of sale of our airspace took place, no one here cares. With fish, we have already experienced the situation, with agricultural land, with the purchase and sale of our territory, but with such heavenly generosity indeed our neighbors can be satisfied and oversatisfactory. So, with full responsibility, I claim that the government is irresponsible and that it is responsible for the sale of the Croatian sky. It is interesting that no one in Croatia has used the United Nations special agency's decision to prove its right to the territory of the airspace, i.e. an area that is superior to our mainland as a whole, resulting from the Civil Aviation Convention. It is also questionable how only some of the Slovenians put a note on some of their maps of possible border change, they outlined their air border without consulting Croatia. Croatia didn't mind that at all, however, it is even drawing its own borders and admitting it. Even what they've identified as a source. It is known that both Montenegro and Serbia, even then even the former part of Yugoslavia, refused to receive Croatian aircraft for years after this decision, i.e. in general, aircraft from Croatian airspace and refused to send aircraft to Croatian airspace and representatives of Croatian air navigation control offered sale of Croatian airspace in an old good manner, obedience and humility. So both Serbia-Montenegro and for no operational reason were donated 54km of airway from Tovarnik to Zagreb. Italy has donated space around the point... And so on, I'm not going to quote everything because it makes me nervous. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, you should certainly see. Well, I think this colleague of mine should be very worried about you. Croatia is now in a situation where others control traffic in its airspace and, in any case, it has a lot to do with it and not just those of some kind of state-of-the-art state in itself, not to explain needs and purposes, but to have any practical repercussion. Namely, in the event of any plane crash, aircraft crash or other State incidents that carry out control in the Croatian airspace are not responsible for any possible damage. As a result, it would be useful for those in charge of this, first and foremost, the Government, through certain ministries, to consider the decision of a very instructive Supreme Court of Germany, which gave its own right in the collision of a Russian and Turkish passenger aircraft, as is known to have killed many children, who were blamed by Swiss air traffic controllers but in the airspace of Germany in which the control was granted to Switzerland. Namely, the agreement signed by the governments of these two countries has not been ratified in their parliaments. And in Croatia there are not only no ratifications of this kind but there are no contracts and in accordance with international law and the provisions of the Croatian Air Transport Act. So this is what the media wrote, one of our weeklys wrote, but nobody cares. Of course, in some of our journals there was no speech about it that the government wouldn't accidentally be upset with these disturbing news that the government knows well about all of this, of course because it is an accomplice to this matter. Many airline tickets contain offensive movements of the state borders of the Republic of Croatia and none of Croatia's flight controls nor the Ministry of Competent and Government reacted and the international company issuing these airline maps has therefore drawn a line by which Prevlaka is no longer in Croatia. This stands for years on the satisfaction of our neighbours of their helpers, which the Croatian state is obviously generously paying good money to take care of its heavenly interest. Today Mr. Prime Minister has chosen to say very gallantly here, everyone has supported him not to give an inch of Croatian territory and I believe him but for miles not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28573	Replica Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28574	Mrs. Ingrid was having a good debate, Mr. Vice President, but as far as I was listening very carefully to our prime minister, he said he wouldn't give a single inch of Croatian soil without talking about air and water.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28575	Final Review State Secretary Zdravko Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a short one, to thank, of course, for the discussion of how you said to the honourable MPs that you would support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport. Just for a short while, these amendments, which have been adopted by the Committee on Legislatives, are specifically accepted by the three Governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28577	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28578	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 282. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The law was passed by a majority of votes, 95 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against, together with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28579	We're moving on to the next point. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 279 Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, finance, the state budget and the judiciary. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28580	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The proposed amendments and additions to the Act on the takeover of stock companies are regulated or further defined by several provisions, i.e. several points, in particular the concept of a target society in situations where it is not specified by the provisions of the Capital Market Act. Just one short parallel. Therefore, the Securities Market Act as a law which was in force prior to the adoption of the Capital Market Act was clearly governing it. So stock companies with 30 million share capital and more than 100 shareholders until the Capital Market Act no longer contains that definition simply by this bill we define this target company. On the other hand, infringement provisions are complemented to ensure the implementation of the obligations to take over in accordance with the decision of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. In addition, the transitional and final provisions governing the state of play of the Act on the takeover of shareholders in the section relating to the obligation to publish the takeover bids which occurred at the time of the previous Act on the takeover of stock companies from 2002 are further elaborated. Practically this provision we cover all legal conditions according to previous regulations. Finally, the termology is aligned with the provisions of the new Capital Market Act as well as the Commercial Society Act as key rules governing the target companies or the scope of the Sharerships Act. Both the end of course and the previous law and the implementation of this law do not require funding from the state budget, although they can say immediately in the introductory word, the Committee on Law also tabled three amendments to the proposed amendments and additions that the Government accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28581	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? Finance and the state budget? The chairman of the board, Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28582	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honourable government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 27th session held on 11 March 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the acquisition of shareholders with the final proposal for a law as a parent body. In its opening statement, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that amendments to the Act on the takeover of stock companies are made, not by touching provisions relating to compliance with the acquis of the European Union, but by making amendments to the section relating to infringements, and to the application of the provisions of the law in the transitional period, more specifically to the obligation to publish the takeover bids which occurred at the time the earlier Act on the takeover of shares was in force. In addition to this law, civil society is autonomously defined and defined. Therefore, the entry into force of the Capital Market Act has ceased to apply the Securities Market Act, which defined in Article 114 of the concept of a public limited company which is a target company within the meaning of the provisions of the Act on the acquisition of shares. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament unanimously supported the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt this law by an urgent procedure and to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Download of Shareholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28583	Thank you. The Justice Committee. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Goran Maric's Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28584	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Shareholdership is one of the foundations of an efficient economy and one of the most important factors that contribute to the development of competition and competitiveness in society. It is of paramount importance that the process of taking over stock companies is transparent, especially in order to protect the equality and interest of shareholders and society itself. The existing law on the takeover of stock companies has regulated the area of acquisition of stock companies and introduced the solutions set out in Directive 25 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 2004 on takeover bids into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. These proposed amendments and amendments to the laws are amended and complemented by the Act on the takeover of stock companies in the section relating to the application of the provisions in connection with the obligation to publish the takeover bids which occurred in the time of the former Act on the takeover of shares. The proposed amendments and additions do not contain provisions relating to compliance with the acquis of the European Union, as Directive 25 of 2004 on bids for acquisition has already been fully implemented in the existing Act on the takeover of stock companies. The most important amendments and additions to the Law on the acquisition of shares are determined by the concept of a target company in situations where it is not defined by the provisions of the Capital Market Act, and the Securities Market Act has already clearly regulated this with 30 million kunas of underlying capital and more than 100 employees, i.e. shareholders, and the Capital Market Act no longer contains that definition. The most important amendments also complement the infringement provisions in order to ensure the implementation of the obligations to take over in accordance with the decision of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. At the same time, these amendments and additions are further elaborated on transitional and final provisions governing the state of entry into force of the Act on the takeover of shareholders in the section relating to the obligation to publish the takeover bid, which occurred at the time of the previous Act on the takeover of stock companies from 2002. The proposed amendments and additions also harmonize the terminology with the provisions of the new Capital Market Act as well as the key regulation governing the target company, i.e. the scope of the Act on the takeover of shareholders. As soon as the proposal to amend and supplement the Act on the takeover of stock companies was published, there were also various proposals to supplement and amend such proposals. Thus, the proposal to amend and supplement this law in such a way as to increase the percentage of the share in the underlying capital of a legal person, i.e. voting rights in the main assembly, from 25 to 50%. When these apply to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, units of local self-government and other public legal bodies. A proposal like this is unacceptable and for several reasons. First of all, because this would be partly introduced by some kind of proctationalism, bringing different legal entities into an unequal status and relationship. Furthermore, the possible application would bring great legal uncertainty to all shareholders of the target companies and all the participants of the capital market, who acted with confidence in then applicable legal provisions and shares of the target companies, acquired or fired under the conditions of then applicable laws. That would also be an incursion into shareholders' rights acquired by investing in capital. Such an amendment would also be possible injure the rights of the shareholders of the company who, according to then applicable law, have acquired the right to publish bids for the acquisition and purchase of their shares by the majority owner, and would thus not have the right to do so. There would also be an unequal position of shareholders of targeted companies in cases where shares of target companies are acquired by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the units of local self-government and other public legal bodies, which have so far been equal to the other shareholders of the target companies in the capital market. At the same time, there would be a suspension of the procedures for the takeover of target companies in cases where, in the midst of retroactive application of certain provisions of the law, the obligation to publish the takeover bid would no longer be prescribed. These are all reasons why it is unacceptable to install in this Proposal the amendment and addition of the Act on the takeover of stock companies and provisions to increase 25 to 50% share in the underlying capital when it comes to the bodies, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the bodies of the units of local self-government and other public legal bodies. It is also important to stress that, as in previous law, the implementation of this law does not provide for additional funding from the state budget and, for the sake of this club, supports the adoption of the law in exactly the same way as the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the acquisition of stock companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28585	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28586	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministry representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So what we're talking about when it comes to the law of taking over stock companies, what we can say is that there's nothing controversial about it. Some things are further defined, certain infringements are harmonised, terminology is harmonised with the Capital Market Act. However, since we were against the Capital Market Act, which was voted here in July 2008, then we will be abstentioned in the proposal of this law, because we do not want to bestow something against which we were and that is two and two four. It is precisely by reference to the law itself on the takeover of stock companies, and looking at the aspect of the Capital Market Act that we said, and it should be repeated, because we think it is important at the moment that it is an expensive instrument at a bad time. When foreign investors have left the capital market, when institutional investors have lost, when they have left the market to a greater extent because of the fear of further decline in the value of their shares, we offer an experiment that is in some way not only burdensome to market participants but also burdens those who carry out the transfer and who are intermediators, which is also brokerage houses and other financial institutions that will suffer huge losses in this year, except those in the hands of foreigners. So, the foreigners will stay, unfortunately the domestics will have to go and that costs of 30, 40%. We are also witnessing certain media texts, announcing that certain companies, in fact, have asked for a derogation from the census of public stock companies. That quotation, the commitment when it was introduced in 2002, was resistant to it, but it gained good effects on the stock market. I could bring in more positive things than negative things. She brought confidence, made a commitment to publish transparent business results, prompted many small shareholders to go invest. At the end of the decision and amendments to the HANFA Regulation, institutional investors were also allowed to enter the public stock exchange and in some ways ensured rapid growth in the then let's say a more slowed capital market, meaning the financial market in which securities are traded. What's going on in the event of a delinquency? In case certain companies want to leave with, from public stock quotations, it happens that they will be placed probably in a lower quotation of the parallel market, but will not have to publish business results to the extent that they have to publish. Finally, this will mean that small shareholders will not be interested in such investments in those stocks precisely because their uncertain future, i.e. investments are, I will not say, dimmed, but some of the results of the business are not available, at least not in the simplest way, and this will ultimately have an effect on the takeover of the companies themselves. So when the stock prices are lower and therefore lower, those who take over these stock companies will also be able to buy them lower, at lower prices. And imagine when strangers come in with cash and cheap, it means beyond the transparency they have they're buying our companies. It's not privatisation, it's conversion, because privatisation is already privatized. The conversion only changes owners. And that's what we're afraid of and that's why at the end of the day, and at this point, we can't support one such law, which actually bestows this law, although there's nothing controversial about it. I wish you'd come out with one proposal, with one delay in legal solutions to the most sensitive things at the time of this sort of thing, including those statements around II. The pillars have tectonic disorders, especially for institutional investors of pension funds, which in the future need to secure our citizens' pensions, and this will definitely be seen and this effect will be overrun and ultimately we can expect that this year, because of a expensive experiment, Croatian citizens will lose some of their incomes that should be realised in the future. The CNB, with Zoki, with the Credit Institutions Act, has been sensitive, most sensitive provisions which, when they agreed in one part together with you, have delayed some things until Croatia enters the European Union. Until Croatia enters the European Union. And we are in a hurry in the European Union in 2009 although there are no items for enlargement until 2015 in Brussels or Strasbourg, and that is that. I do not see why we are adopting laws that will reflect so strongly on the lives of participants of Croatian society, and on our lives, and in 2009, when we are, I would not now say a day closer to the European Union, but a day further. And there is really no need, it would be good if you had taken some measures that would delay certain things, an example of these most sensitive provisions, because at the moment when the global financial crisis, at the moment when the domestic capital market suffers huge losses, at the moment when institutional investors, pension funds suffer huge losses, at the moment when Croatian citizens lose their pension to which they are entitled in the future, it is not good to do expensive experiments, and therefore we will, because we do not want to produce one law against which we were, for this law as a SDP club to be abstentioned. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28587	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28588	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. This is when we talk about these amendments to the Capital Market Act, a few basic questions are raised. The first question is what is fundamentally what my colleague Maric said in his presentation, which is that when companies are taken over, i.e. stock companies, when someone acquires a more significant share of shares in a particular company, they should think about the protection of all shareholders. It means not only those who would possibly sell up to 51% until the ownership stake is acquired in a significant part, i.e. to become a majority owner, but those and others who would eventually want to sell shares to the one who is willing to buy them, i.e. if a price is accepted that the purchaser of those shares has the money to pay those shares. What is necessary here to say that this law, meaning this law on the takeover of companies, stock companies and the Capital Markets Act, should have been harmonised. Unfortunately, we have witnessed in the past year the two laws have been inconsistencies. One example can be said, it is about taking over INA where the Capital Markets Act was not valid, it was worth only from 1.1.2009 and many of the things that should have been sanctioned during the INA takeover, I mean in various articles in the media, etc., have not been sanctioned and they have been sanctioned since 1.1 this year. So it's important that these two laws are in line to get the best synergy in the implementation of these procedures. What's important is, last year there were 12 downloads of information from HANFA, two acquisitions are under way this year. It's about "Puris d.d. Pazin and "Sladorani d.d. The mayor. And now my basic question, which may explain to me, is, since Article 1 of the existing law, which says that it has ceased to apply the Securities Market Act, which in Article 114 defined the concept of a public limited society which is a target company in terms of the provisions of this law, as it is possible that... It ceased to apply from 1.1.2009, and it began to apply a new law that we adopted in July. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How is it possible that the solution was made for "Sladrana d.d. The Parish" 15.01.2009, if this concept no longer exists, since the law that defined the concept of a public stock company was no longer in force. Another thing that is important to say, when we look at the takeover of certain companies, I have cited an example of the INA that, no matter what the law defines certain things to protect all investors, all shareholders, when it comes to the ownership of the state, of course, anyone who has shares and who represents certain stockholders, investors, will normally protect their interest. In the case of INA, when it was the state that decided whether or not to sell it, the state could decide not to, or not the state, but let's say the Board of Directors of the Defence Fund that sold a large number of shares, but of course the crucial influence there had a state because there was also the Deputy Prime Minister and many other influential members of both HDZ and other groups. It is important to say that if you represent something that is not defined as someone's private property, in this case it was state or defence property, you don't always have to act in the interest of those. So, at that point, they felt it might be good to sell at the price that MOL then offered as a public offering, and on the other hand, the state could create a situation where it would invite and someone else who would possibly want to take part in the takeover or offer for INA shares. This was not done, but the Defence Fund Management Board as an incentive to sell its share to small shareholders and thus stimulated all shares to be sold at the price offered and to end this takeover in the way it was finished. So I should always be responsible for these acquisitions when managing shares that are not of certain natural persons or certain companies that are privately owned. On the other hand, we can look at the takeover of Pliva which was done correctly on the other hand, but of course, the one that always sells has an impact on whether or not it will stimulate someone to go into the shopping process, and there is also a significant role that the state has played for me and has given support to the "Bar" to buy "Plive", although informal contacts. And in the end, we see how the whole story ended that "Bar" after a few years brought "Plive" to quite a low branch, sold "Tevi" and now it ends with thousands of Croatian citizens who were employees of Pliva losing their jobs. That's what I said as a one-depression to see how important this area of takeover is, of course, it has nothing to do with this technical takeover procedure that the law prescribes, but we need to talk about it when we're talking about taking over, especially where the state is the majority owner. I would ask here in the end just to answer this question as to how this solution can be called "Sladrana d.d. The court" of 15.01.2009, if it was no longer possible to define the law which ceased to apply to 1.1. Otherwise, as my colleague Bernardic said, I will not be in favour of this law because I think the Capital Markets Act that we adopted in the 7th month last year was not so urgent, many things could have been corrected in those half-years. Some have also been corrected in the 12th month that they have redefined, as I have heard, trade in foreign exchanges in international markets. Again, I thought I was going to detimulate the development of that market, but I do not think that the law was necessary enough to be adopted 6 months earlier, to apply it only since 1.1.2009. On the other hand, we also objected to the list of securities markets. I find it really inadmissible that someone with 36% of shares and ownership can list the company unless 50 percent of the vote appears to him in the assembly. And I think it certainly stimulates non-transparentity because it's possible that someone is thus trying to dominate their dominant position in a company that is determined and strengthened. So on that side, I won't support this law, but I think this is an extremely important area, and we need to talk about it clearly, especially when it comes to companies that are still state-owned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28589	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, as we supported on this side of the Assembly of the Capital Markets Act, so we will also support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Download of Shareholders. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the acquisition of stock companies. What are the basic features of these legal changes? First of all, the Fundamental Act on the acquisition of stock companies from 2007 provides for the acquisition of a stock company, which respects the fundamental principle, which is the principle of the protection of equality and interest of public shareholders. Furthermore, the same law fully introduces the solutions set out in Directive 2004/25 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 21 April 2004 into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. These amendments also amend the part relating to the infringement provisions and to the application of the provisions of the law in the transitional period. More specifically, the obligation to publish the takeover bids that occurred at the time of the earlier law on the takeover of stock companies from 2002. The adoption of the new Capital Market Act, which entered into force on 1 January this year, also prompted amendments to the Act on the takeover of stock companies from the previous new Capital Market Act, did not autonomously determine the definition of civil society and this is determined by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the acquisition of a shareholder society. According to the applicable law, civil society has been defined as a public shareholder company within the meaning of the Securities Market Act, which is not valid, of course because, by way of effect of the Capital Market Act, the Securities Market Act has ceased to apply, so that, in this final proposal, the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the acquisition of shares in Article 2(1)(a) of the Civil Society as a shareholder company based in the Republic of Croatia whose shares are listed in the regulated market in the Republic of Croatia within the meaning of the provisions of the Capital Market Act or of a shareholder company which has more than a hundred shares whose share capital is at least 30 million kuna. In my view, these are the most significant amendments to this law, and the remaining terminology is in line with the Law on Commercial Companies and the Capital Market Act. It is precisely because of the above, that I give full support to the adoption of the final draft law in amendments to the Act on the takeover of stock companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28591	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28592	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague... colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law on the takeover of stock companies, the National Journal of 1009/2007, is fully in line with the decisions of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2004 on bids for takeover, and this legal area is fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. In its core segment, therefore, a sharer company means a capital company that is suitable for a free market economy. Just to visit the starting basis of the takeover, that is, the Law on the acquisition of stock companies itself, is that for those who acquire shares in civil society, which together with those who already have more than 25% of the voting rights in the Assembly, there is an obligation to publish a takeover offer. To remind once again by the applicable law, civil society is under a) a public limited company within the meaning of the Securities Market Act and under (b) a stock company established in another European Economic Area whose voting rights are placed on a regulated market in a European Economic Area State, and within the meaning of the mentioned Directive of the European Council and Parliament. Among other things, the proposed amendments and additions to the Act on the takeover of stock companies are intended to comply with the provisions of Article 2(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law with the Capital Market Act, which was suspended by the Securities Market Act, which defined the concept of a public shareholder company and within the meaning of the provisions of the Act on the acquisition of shares. Thus, the proposed amendments and additions as a target company are defined in place of a public shareholder company based in the Republic of Croatia where (a) shares with a voice right are included in a regulated market in the Republic of Croatia and within the meaning of the provisions of the Capital Market Act or under (b) a shareholder holding more than 100 shareholders whose share capital is at least 30 million kuna. Also, in the part of the provisions of the law, the termological alignment with the Capital Market Act where the word “broker” is changed with the word “investment” and through the text of the law, the term “Central Depositary Agency” is replaced by the term “Central Clinical Depositary Society”. Furthermore, the proposed amendments and additions aim to amend, or supplement, the Act on the takeover of stock companies in the section relating to infringements, and to the provisions of the parts relating to the notification of the provisions of the law in the transitional period. The proposed amendments and additions in addition to the infringements already prescribed in the infringements are proposed to add provisions to which the infringement is prescribed and where the person does not act in accordance with the decision of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which determines the existence of the obligation and requires the publication of the takeover offer. As an offence, it is proposed to prescribe and communicate with the public against the prohibition of public communication, except in the event of mandatory publication under the Act on the takeover of stock companies. The proposed amendments and additions also aim to amend the Act on the acquisition of stock companies and, in the section relating to the application of the provisions of the laws in the transitional period, to the one relating to the publication of tax tenders which occurred at the time of the earlier applicable Act on the takeover of stock companies, the 2002 Act. The law also provides for the takeover to be undertaken, and for the purpose of the request to authorise the publication of the takeover bid to be launched by the date of entry into force of the law on the takeover of stock companies, they have to complete in accordance with the provisions of the earlier applicable law, i.e. 2002. Furthermore, Article 61 provides that persons subject to the obligation to publish a takeover offer in accordance with an earlier applicable law, who have not submitted a request for the publication of the takeover bid by the date of entry into force of the current law and who are obliged to comply with the provisions of the applicable law. These amendments and amendments to the laws also propose to extend the above-mentioned circle of persons and to those to whom the obligation to publish bids for takeover has been made in accordance with the earlier applicable law on the takeover of stock companies from 1997. Furthermore, the amendment and the addition of legal situations were also introduced at the time of the previous laws, the 2002 Act on the acquisition of stock companies and the '97 takeover procedure. the legal situation encountered at the time of entry into force of this applicable law. Furthermore, persons who, on the date of entry into force of this Act, and the applicable law on the takeover of stock companies from 2007 relate, hold more than 25 and less than 75% of shares with the right to vote of the target company and have made an offer to take over according to the provisions of the earlier applicable or applicable laws are obliged to publish a takeover bid in case of further acquisition of shares with the right of the vote of the target society in a manner prescribed by the provisions of the applicable law. In order to ensure legal certainty of the application of the law, as already stated in its entry into force on 1 January of this year, the Capital Market Act proposes to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Download of Shareholders under an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28593	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28594	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. The basic reason why amendments and additions to the law on the takeover of stock companies are proposed is to briefly remind ourselves of the fact that in 2008, a new Capital Market Act entered into force on 1 January 2009 and which is a key regulation governing the areas of takeover of stock companies was adopted. In fact, the existing law should have been complemented in the section relating to the obligation to publish the takeover bids that occurred at the time of the existing law. Article 4 of the proposed amendments complemented Article 61 of the applicable law extending the circle of persons subject to the obligation to publish the takeover bid, which did not comply with that obligation until the date of entry into force of this Act. It shall enter into force 8 days after its publication in the National Journal. On the other hand, there was a need for a termological harmonisation of certain terms of this law with the terminology contained in the provisions of the Capital Market Act. This is the already known case when the amendments and the terminology of legal harmonisation of one law pulls together and the need for appropriate amendments to other laws that regulate similar matter. Furthermore, Article 3 of the proposed law extends the criminal provisions to persons who do not act after the decision of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Let's remind ourselves that the fines are very high. For a legal person to a million kuna, and for a physical to 500 thousand kuna. The same as the offence is also prescribed to communicate with the public which is contrary to the provisions of this law. I think it should be noted that the current law fully introduces the solutions set out in the European Parliament Directive, so that it is already fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. Finally, I propose that this law also be adopted by emergency procedure precisely because the Capital Market Act had already entered into force on 1 January 2009 and that there would be no conflict between these two laws, i.e. to ensure greater legal certainty of the application of those rules. I therefore propose that this law be adopted in the proposed form and by an emergency procedure because I see no reason for the procedure to be difficult and thus create a space for legal failures and the possibility of abuse of non-compliant regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28595	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28596	Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The first law on the takeover of stock companies was passed as early as 1997. This law is important because it protects the interests and ensures the equality of shareholders in the acquisition of the stock company. On the one hand, the law protects shareholders, and on the other hand regulates the possibility of legal and effective takeover for the acquirer. The main issues covered by the Act on the takeover of stock companies are defined by the target company, the definition of takeover bids, the obligation to publish bids for takeover, the objectives and intentions of the tenderers, the restrictions on the activities of the supervisory board and the management of the target company, the companies to take over, the right to transfer and sell shares, minority shareholders and other issues. This law lays down certain provisions of the Securities Market Act, as the Securities Market Act is replaced by the Capital Market Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2009, necessary amendments to the Act on the takeover of stock companies. That's how it is, for example. The Securities Market Act defines what public stock companies are, which also defined the target companies of the Securities Market Act, which only referred to the Securities Market Act in the definition of the target company. The definition was read by the target company as a public shareholder company within the meaning of the Securities Market Act. Since the provisions of the new Capital Market Act have not been defined by public shareholders, it is necessary to define the target company by amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of shareholders, which is this proposal and done. The target company is defined as a shares company based in the Republic of Croatia whose voting rights are placed on a regulated market in the Republic of Croatia within the meaning of the provisions of the Capital Market Act or of a share company which has more than 100 shareholders and whose share capital is at least 30 million kuna. With the definition of the target company, amendments and additions to the laws shall be amended and the infringement provisions and provisions relating to the application of the law during the transitional period. The law also harmonizes the termologically with the Law on Commercial Companies and the Capital Market Act. For example, the name Central Depositary Agency is replaced by the name of the Central clearing depositary company, the name of the stock exchange with the name of the regulated market, etc. The importance of the Act on the takeover of stock companies is unquestionable, as is the need to protect the interests of shareholders. The harmonisation of this law with the regulation is necessary in order to ensure its quality of application and implementation. As my colleague Bernardic said in the law, there is nothing controversial but unlike him, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28597	Thank you. Final review. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. We continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the proposal for a law on quality assurance in science and higher education with a final proposal for law, amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-11-0.u28598	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the acquisition of shares, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 279. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am therefore voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The law was passed by a majority of votes, 73 votes in favour, 24 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We're moving on with the session. We're going to the agenda point 5. Proposal for a law on quality assurance in science and higher education, with a final draft law, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 277 As it was found yesterday, this is the first reading, so it's not... reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of setting the agenda, the government withdrew for urgency at the request, and will discuss it in a regular procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
