ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43565	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, dear fellow union representatives, good morning. The employers obviously aren't, they're probably working. In view of the obligation to bring the Labour Act into line with the European Union directives in negotiating Chapter 19. – Social policy and employment, as well as the necessary harmonisation of labour legislation with already adopted national rules, have launched an initiative to draft a labour law proposal with the final draft law. The activities of the social partners, the Government, employers, trade unions to amend and supplement the Labour Act began 16 months ago with a consensus agreement to implement only the necessary harmonisation of the law with the acquis of the European Union as well as with other previously adopted national regulations, and that, after that phase in the second part of the activities to prepare further additions to the Labour Act, in order to agree appropriate solutions to a number of other issues such as, for example, labour regulations on certain and indefinite times. In order to achieve full harmonisation of Croatian labour legislation with the acquis of the European Union, the Labour Act should include the harmonisation of labour law institutions and procedures with 13 European Union Directives. In addition to harmonising with the acquis, it was also necessary to implement the horizontal harmonisation of labour law institutions with already adopted national legislation in the field of pension insurance, human rights protection, gender equality and parental rights, in particular because the horizontal non-compliance of the rules leads to legal uncertainty and extension of the duration of court proceedings. In addition, taking into account the large number of amendments to the Labour Act and the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on the application of the basic text of the law with all amendments and additions, instead of its consolidated text, the development of a comprehensive Labour Act has been approached, and this has proved necessary in a nomotechnical sense. The proposed legislative proposal regulates the basic issues of individual and collective labour relations, the issue of supervision of the application of labour regulations, criminal liability and the transitional period towards existing legislation, as well as all issues in order to fully comply with labour legislation. I would like to remind you that, starting from the agreement of the social partners and the completed work within the three-party working group in December, most of the votes of the Economic Social Council were supported by the law, followed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent the same to the Croatian Parliament. However, since negotiations with the European Union were blocked, the government withdrew the draft law in question from the Croatian Parliament procedure and allowed social partners additional time for further bipartite talks. The period since June of this year reached an agreement on most of the issues raised in the original Bill Draft, and after separate talks by the government representatives with representatives of the union centres and the Croatian Employers' Association, some other recommendations have been completely removed, and it can be concluded that this Bill Draft which you have received is fully on the trail of the initial agreement of the social partners on the way and content of its production. It is also crucial that the draft draft labour law in question has received a previous uncontested positive assessment by the European Commission on its compliance with the European Union directives, as was the fundamental objective of this phase of the preparation of that law, which is harmonised and precise. Since public statements and polemics have particularly highlighted the problem of the Institute of Work Contracts for a certain period of time. I would like to point out here in particular that a new draft law has now been proposed in full compliance with the relevant European Union directive, and that the European Commission has also given a positive indication in this regard. In this regard, I particularly point out that it is Article 10. Draft proposal of the Labour Act, on work for a certain period of time. Exception, not rule. In the event of the conclusion of such a contract, the employer shall establish and demonstrate an objective reason for the conclusion of such a contract, and shall justify it by a specific deadline or the execution of a particular transaction which is contracted. In order to prevent abuse, such a contract is limited by law to a maximum period of 3 years, irrespective of whether the worker works with the employer in the context of that period in the same or different jobs. I would like to remind you that precisely because of the indeterminate nature of this provision, there has been a phenomenon that workers are working half the working life of a contract at a certain time with the same employer, and this is new so far, this is now a new provision completely disabled. I remind you that this was made possible by the law that was passed in 2003. In addition, the abuse of employment has been included for a certain time in this draft bill in serious violations. Other workers' rights for a certain time are in line with workers' rights indefinitely. Other institutes also covered by incorrect information refer to the longest weekly working hours including overtime and schedules. I stress that the longest week of work, including overtime, cannot last longer than 48 hours, which is a reduction of overtime from 10 to 8, while at the same time at the annual level overtime is limited to 180 hours per worker. When it comes to the schedule of working hours, you know that in Croatia, which is focused on seasonal work, for example. tourism and agriculture, a real need for certain flexibility of the organisation of work, but not at the expense of workers. According to the said consensus of the social partners, a solution which the redistributed working hours cannot be more than 48 hours a week, and only if this institute is arranged by collective agreement and, subsequently, a particular worker gives written consent to such work, in the redistribution of working time, the worker can work for more than 56 hours a week, and this work cannot last longer than 4 months. Unless the collective agreement sets out otherwise, in which case it cannot last from 6 months. So far, there has been no limited duration. Besides, the employer... make a record of such work available to the labour inspector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, in certain statements, there is no misunderstanding of the necessity of harmonisation of Article 49. The law on working with the relevant Directive of the European Union. According to the draft law, there is no absolute ban on working nights for pregnant women, but they are protected in the same way as in European practice. And this means that an employer must not determine the night’s work of a pregnant woman if an authorised doctor has assessed that nighttime work endangers her life or health. Since it is known that pregnancy itself is not a disease, but rather a condition in which individual health needs to be identified, it is perfectly logical that the European Commission and this article have assessed it as fully harmonised. It is particularly important to stress that the complementarity of the Labour Act, i.e. the coordination with the acquis of the European Union and the other previously adopted national regulations does not worsen the situation of workers or employers. Who are further in line with the improved other institutions of the Labour Act. The draft Labour Act, along with the previously highlighted three institutes, greatly improved other institutes, such as The shortest duration of vacations has been extended from 18 working days to 4 weeks, and to underage workers for 5 weeks. In the event of termination of a work contract, the employer shall be obliged to allow the worker to use the annual leave or to pay an adequate fee for the unused vacation. The number of overtime hours has been reduced from a week to a week of 10 to 8. The Institute of Working Time and the precisely defined rights and obligations of employers and workers shall respect adaptation to the standards of the European Union, but also to the real economic circumstances. It protects the right to a medical examination of workers working at night, which has not been the case so far. The shift work, as well as the rights of workers working in shifts, is established and the institution of the right to weekly rest is accurately established. Protecting the right of workers to, i.e. prohibits the conclusion of more contracts for part-time, which cannot be longer than 40 hours a week. Workers working full-time with several employers must give written consent to the redistribution of working hours, which has not been regulated so far. It is precisely defined the condition when the employer has an obligation to work, to develop a program to take care of extra workers. The right of workers to transfer work contracts and cases, cases of transfer of economic activity or part of it has been extended, and so far this has only concerned cases of status changes. What are the accepted additional union proposals, which are not related to harmonisation? On the basis of the proposals added, additional proposals from trade union centres, and with the adoption of social partners in the law, proposals relating to the precise obligations of the Agency for Temporary Employment, as well as the user in relation to the employed worker, have been incorporated. Weeks of vacations are used on Sundays, not on Sundays as it has been. The right to paid leave has been established as 7 working days, not as 7 days, which would include non-working days. It is possible for the method of use of the daily break to be regulated by collective contract or contract of work, rather than by a unilateral act of employers by the labour rules. In the event of termination of the labour contract, the worker, because of his professional incompetence to work, in the event that no employer has been elected, no working council is elected to be replaced by arbitration or by a court decision. As a basis for discrimination, non-membership has been deleted in the union. There were also some union requirements which could not be brought simply for reasons because they were contrary to the European Union directives, and as can be seen from the European Commission's point of view. Therefore, once again it can be fully established that the proposed draft Labour Law has significantly improved the solutions of individual institutes so far, and determines the rights and obligations of workers and employers. As the objections to the ineffective efficiency of the State Inspectorate and other bodies are often highlighted, it should also be stressed that administrative capacities and technical conditions for more effective work inspection and health and safety at work have been increased over the past short term. In addition, within a month and a half of the government's initiative established the coordination of competent national authorities in charge of monitoring the application of labour regulations and health and safety protection at work, with the aim of strengthening supervision and preventing any abuse of workers. In addition to preventive action, within the framework of the project of the Social Partnership Office of the Association of Trade Unions and Employers, they must contribute actively to the practical implementation of the settlement of individual labour disputes. Since the initial results encourage and contribute to discharging courts faster and cheaper settlement of work disputes. However, it is certain that in the area of compliance with the rules and regulations, in this case the Labour Act cannot be excluded from the responsibility of either employers, trade unions or working councils. It is also necessary to stress this occasion that the Labour Act lays down the minimum of certain rights, and a higher level of law or more detailed regulation of certain issues, as well as specificities in certain activities or societies, can be regulated by collective agreements, with full autonomy of trade unions and employers present. And this time I stress the significant role of the working councils, which, in accordance with the powers laid down by the Labour Act, have the opportunity to request employers from among others every three months and concrete reports. The processing of workers who are employed for a certain period of time and the reasons for their employment. The law lays down that the employer is obliged to inform the Working Council of the above mentioned and other issues in a timely, true and complete manner. In addition, the employer must consult the working council on a employment plan, contracts for a specified and indefinite period of time, relocation and cancellation, if the employer missed out on his decision would be void. It can be concluded from the above provisions of the Labour and Attending Practices Act that workers' councils and employers do not use the law laid down rights and obligations, and that is one of the main reasons for the problems present relating to employment and contracting of work. For example, a collective contract or a working council agreement with the employer may limit the total number of contracts to work for a specified period of time. Either the maximum number of contracts per worker or a certain percentage of such contracts in relation to the total number of employees indefinitely. Why isn't that used? I note that there is no obstacle in this respect to the regulation of that issue in a concrete way that is suitable for real activity and for a real commercial society as well as for the common interests of trade unions and employers. What are the additional activities of the social partners in relation to the Labour Act? Today, I would like to inform you that certain bipartite meetings, trade union associations and employers have been held at the government's initiative, in a brief period between this and the previous session of the Croatian Parliament, to try to find some additional solutions for several labour law institutes that go beyond the framework of the commitments taken to comply with the European Union directives. Namely, the mutual interest of both trade unions and employers was to establish a proper balance and compromise between work for a certain time and indefinite time, noting that the proposed solutions were not radical but acceptable. However, because of the absence of consensus on the union side, it was not possible at this time to propose to the Croatian Parliament as a complement to the draft labour law draft you received. The government would have been more pleased if both trade unions and employers had put a compromise on this stage, but unfortunately the same was obviously not possible. The Government of the Republic of Croatia stands on the side of the union, and employers, supports and respects their legitimate interests to better regulate all issues of contractual working relationship as well as other institutes, making it easier for the competent authorities to carry out more effective controls and sanctioning illegality in the field of labour relations. In further work, the creation of the Labour Act must take into account the balance of labour and capital as well as the needs and movements of the labour market. As a representative of the European Commission recently said, you can enter what you want in the Labour Act, but it is important whether it is feasible. This is why the Government adopted the draft labour law in its discussion with representatives of trade union centres and the Croatian Employers' Association, setting out the draft labour law proposal, the conclusion that, within a further 60 days of the joint tripartite working group, work continues to bring together all issues that social partners consider more necessary to regulate, based on real conditions and practices so far, and with respect to specific and general interests and best European practices. Enhancing competitiveness in the broadest sense, new products and innovation services, new markets, exports, entire life education, the development of sectoral cooperation between employers and trade unions, and the practical use of broad opportunities for autonomous regulatory specificity, activities by trade unions and employers, without aloofing and imposing uniform standards with effective supervision are the only real solution for job stability and thus determining the character of the labour contract. Finally, I call on you to fully support the proposed draft Law on Labour in Content, as well as the obligation to close negotiations in Chapter 19 of the Social Policy and Employment, which is fully supported by the proposed Law on Labour in Content, which you have received, and I call on employers and trade unions to continue a constructive dialogue on the preparation of further additions to the Labour Act, but also on taking over the rights of obligations and responsibilities in the autonomous regulation of all issues of work under collective agreements and the work of the working councils. So, after fulfilling the obligations to comply with the acquis of the European Union, let us leave it to the trade unions and employers to do their part of the commitments undertaken to further adapt the Labour Act with the help of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43566	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Excuse me, correction one. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43567	You said the Treaty on a certain exception, not the rule, by existing and otherwise improved law, practice and data, officially defusing you. Eighty-six percent of the work contract is concluded on a certain basis, not indefinitely. WITH 134 labour inspectors as many as the State Inspectorate has, in order to carry out regular supervision only in 1% of businesses, each company will come in line every 14 years, so much for the welfare of these provisions in the new Law. With regard to your statement that the government wants the unions with the capitalists not to agree, I regret, however, that the government has not negotiated with the representatives of the workers, and instead of us having to arbitration, it has arbitration in the dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43568	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43569	Honorable Vice President, Ministers, State Secretary, fellow MPs, colleagues from the union. So the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held on 28 October this year at the 32nd session, he discussed the Proposal for a Law on Labour with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. the number 461, which has been delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 22 October 2009. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as parent body of employment. The Committee was sent with amendments to the proposed Act of the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia, Independent Croatian Trade Unions, Matica Croatian Unions, Croatian Union Association of Unions, Association of Workers' Unions and Croatian Chamber of Commerce. I must also say that certain amendments have arrived, i.e. proposals for amending the Labour Act, certain stakeholders, but unfortunately they arrived too late, the Committee was held earlier so that we could not discuss these proposals and amendments. The applicants explained the amendments at the meeting of the Committee of the Amendment, which was obvious by the applicant's representative, and briefly explained the reasons why the proposed amendments were not acceptable. She pointed out that in the majority of the content of the proposed amendments in the area of interest issues that should be agreed in the spirit of social dialogue by trade unions and employers. In the opening statement of the proposing representatives, she pointed out that in the pre-accession activities of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, it is in negotiating Chapter 19. – Social policy and employment, a legislative initiative to amend the Labour Act, in order to achieve full harmonisation of national labour legislation with directives, i.e. the acquis of the European Union. It pointed out that the creation of the law took into account the overall acquis, i.e. the directives governing working time, working conditions, and the participation of management workers, the freedom of movement of workers and the freedom to provide services. In addition to harmonising with the acquis, there has been horizontal harmonisation of labour law institutions with positive legislation in the field of pension insurance, protection of human rights, gender equality and parental rights. It was also pointed out that the social partners participated in the drafting of this bill that had been under way for almost 15 months. Furthermore, the social partners agreed in most of the proposed amendments and additions. Open interest issues such as a fixed-term employment contract will require significantly broader amendments to the Labour Act on which social partners will need to achieve an interesting balance between the competitiveness of the Croatian economy on the one hand and the protection of workers' rights on the other hand. In a comprehensive debate following the following comments, opinions, proposals on the final draft of the law. The opinion is that this is the first amendment to the Labour Act in almost 10 years, which does not reduce workers' rights, but rather increases legal protection, for example, one regular full-time, including overtime, cannot be longer than 48 hours, which is a two-hour reduction per week compared to the current law. Furthermore, the shortest duration of the annual vacation has been extended from 18 working days to 4 weeks so far. The biggest opposition triggered the provision of Article 10, which was organised by the Institute of Labour for a certain period of time. In the view of the representatives of the union, employers should be limited to the conclusion of a fixed time contract with the number of consecutive contracts to 4, and the reduction of the working relationship time period to a certain time from three to two years. Namely, if, according to the Labour Act, the conclusion of a work contract is a rule for an indefinite period of time, and the conclusion of a working contract for a certain period of exception, in the opinion of the members of the board, most employers abuse the institute for a certain period of time, so the conclusion of a work contract becomes a rule, not an exception. The majority of the committee members agree with the explanation of the applicant's representative that the proposed solution to the work contract has been postponed for a certain period of time is fully in line with the acquis of the European Union, and it is up to the social partners to resolve and agree on all open issues of interest, such as the work contract for a certain time, the collection of pensions and labour rules, etc. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has set a 60-day deadline in which the tripartite working group will consider all relevant issues of the social partners and will then be joined by full amendments to the Labour Act. The social partners agreement is to amend and supplement the Labour Act into two stages. The first part relates to the harmonisation of labour legislation with European Union directives in order to close negotiating Chapter 19. – Social policy and employment, while in the second part of social dialogue all interesting issues would be addressed. The debate put forward a proposal to discuss the law in the first reading, rather than the urgent procedure. However, the board did not support such a proposal and one vote was against and seven votes against. On the proposal of the Committee president, the majority of votes, 7 votes in favour and one vote against, have not been decided on the above-mentioned amendments, as there will be further negotiations between the social partners until the start of the debate on the final proposal of the Labour Act at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by majority vote 7 for and one against, to pass the Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43570	Thank you. Anybody else want any of the board? Yeah. Dear Mrs. Chuhnil, president of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43571	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 27th session held on 19 November 2009, discussed the proposal of the Law on Working with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this act as an interested working body. The amendments were sent to the Committee by the Croatian Chamber of crafts, which was explained on behalf of the applicant by an external member of the Committee. In the opening explanation of the applicant's representatives, it was necessary to include the harmonisation of labour law and procedures with the European Union's legal acquis in order to achieve full harmonisation of national labour law with the acquis. In addition to harmonising with the acquis, the horizontal harmonisation of labour law institutions with already adopted national legislation in the field of pension insurance, human rights protection, gender equality and parental rights has been carried out. It was noted that the social partners participated in the drafting of the proposed law, and they agreed during the agreement and agreed with most of the solutions offered which became part of the changes and additions contained. The proposer's representative, explaining the meaning of the proposed law, particularly kept himself at the Institute of Work with part-time, protection of young people at work, collective redundancy of extra workers, protection of dignity and prohibition of discrimination against women in titles and workplaces, overtime, part-time employment, institute of night work, weekly and annual vacations, as well as the question of collective surpluses. In the debate, on behalf of 4 of the union centre, dissatisfaction was expressed by an external member of the board, saying they supported the adoption of the Labour Law and its alignment with the acquis of the European Union, however, no consensus was reached regarding the proposed work solutions for a period of time. They therefore require national legislation to take advantage of the possibility and prescribe a higher level of law than the existing acquis of the European Union. In fact, the question of working on a certain time of the union centre is viewed as ignoring this problem, which is as many as 102 thousand employees in the Republic of Croatia are working according to the contract for a certain time, i.e. new contracts in work are 90% at a certain time. On the subject of a work contract for a certain time there were frequent abuses and although in the Labour Act this exception was used as a rule in practice. It has been requested that a fixed-term contract cannot last for more than two years whether it is the same or other business with the same employer and that only four contracts can be offered. In the debate on behalf of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, it is regrettable that the text of the proposal is not incorporated into the amendment chamber and has been asked to accept the request that the craftsman with the basis of this law also have the rights of workers and to extend the application of the collective contract. It has also been requested that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce be involved in the social partnership system, but the proposing representative referred them to the basic meaning of the proposed law. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Labour Act by majority of votes 6 for and 2 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43572	Thank you. Any other committees? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. We're going to the club debate first. The first is the distinguished representative Boris Kunst on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43573	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, unions, fellow MPs. The legislative initiative for the adoption of the proposed Labour Act was primarily launched because of the need for full harmonisation of the labour legislation of Croatia with the European Union Directive in negotiating Chapter 19 – Social Policy and Employment. In addition to harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, it was necessary to implement the horizontal harmonisation of labour law institutions with already adopted national legislation in the field of pension insurance, human rights protection, gender equality and parental rights in the field of employment and unemployment in order to ensure greater legal certainty and faster protection of their rights in judicial proceedings. It is important to stress that most of the legal text was created as a result of the good co-operation of the social partners. The social partners agreed through working groups and joint workshops on almost all legal institutes with a view to achieving greater freedom of entrepreneurship and competition in the function of economic development, the protection of workers' rights, the preservation of jobs and the preservation of the social security of employees. Although the social partners spent most of their time agreeing on open issues stemming from the legislative proposal for the last year, several more interesting issues remain open. At this stage, the Croatian Employers' Association opposes the opening of any interesting issue, calling for agreement between the social partners to implement the harmonisation of the Labour Act exclusively with the acquis of the European Union. It is ready to discuss all interesting issues in the second phase of the amendments and the addition of the Labour Act. Interested issues on which there is no agreement between the social partners relate to a work contract for a specified period of time where trade unions seek to reduce the time period on which a working contract is concluded for a specified period of time from the current three years to two years, as well as the maximum conclusion of four consecutive contracts with the same worker in the time period of work for a specified time. Another interesting question is the rules on the work that employers of workers' rights are obliged to bring in line with the Labour Act. The trade unions propose to abolish the labour rules and labour rights of workers to be regulated through agreements and collective agreements at bipartite level. And the third interesting question is the addition of a pension where I think there is no objection from the social partners to settle the matter with the Labour Act. In particular, it should be pointed out that since 1990 Royal Pension Insurance has been carrying out pensions for workers of early retirement and very successful, so that this intervention in the Labour Act does not create a commitment for anyone but only opens up a new possibility of social dialogue. In addition to these interesting issues, the social partners at bipartite level have agreed ten articles of the Labour Act and the other proposals are not in line because they are more or less contrary to the acquis or contrary to European Union directives. The proposed Labour Act does not worsen the situation of workers or employers, i.e. the existing rights are not diminished which has not been a practice for earlier amendments and additions to the Labour Act. The only thing that is unfavourable is that, because of the application of the Directive on the application of the principle of equality between men and women, women are no longer exempt from the ban on night labor other than pregnant women, explicitly on medical grounds. Unfortunately, this Directive applies to all Member States of the European Union and to Croatia, in this respect, could not have been an exception. Adjustments to labour legislation with the acquiss of the European Union encourage the significant role of trade unions. working councils in negotiations with employers on workers' labour rights. Many issues in the field of work can be more favourablely negotiated for workers through collective agreements, and this is a very important role for the union. I will point out once again that the proposed text of the Labour Act does not reduce existing workers' rights, but works to bring them in line with EU directives improves for the benefit of workers and workers. First, overtime is reduced from the current 10 hours per week to 8 hours and is limited to 180 hours per worker per year, which is not prescribed by the current Labour Act. Time's redistributed. It decreases from the current 52 hours to 48 hours a week. It can only be longer with the consent of workers or if it is determined by collective agreement but only up to 56 hours a week and now this Labour Act has been regulated for 60 hours. The quality is defined by the night work of workers as well as his rights, especially the right to a medical examination. It is more favourable for workers to define shift work. The Institute of Weekly Rest has been redefined, which is now continuously 24 hours under the current Labour Act and according to the new Labour Act will be a 36-hour continuous week vacation. The annual workers' vacation has been extended from the current 18 working days to the shortest four weeks, while for underage workers and workers exposed to increased hazards the shortest duration of the annual vacation will last five weeks. Unused annual leave in one employer is no longer transferred to another but will be paid to the worker in the amount of salary compensation according to the number of days of unused vacation. It shall be prohibited to cumulate full-time contracts of 40 hours a week for part-time workers. More precisely, the Agency's temporary employment obligations are regulated in relation to the worker and the service user themselves. The date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union shall cease to be a public document and shall no longer be issued. The proposed labour law brings a lot of benefits to increase the individual labour law, which is a good part and the fruit of the joint work of the social partners. Finally, we can be pleased with the proposed text of the Labour Act, especially the fact that the social partners did not agree to more rigorous labour legislation in Croatia, with full respect for the legal gain of the European Union. This law also lays down a minimum of rights, and more favourable rights can be achieved through collective negotiations that should respect the specificities of certain activities. This time I call on the social partners to make time for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union more dedicated to workers and employers in order to join European standards more easily, and workers' rights should not be reduced but should not be strengthened in order to increase the satisfaction of workers and the quality of work, which is one of the basic conditions for Croatia's greater competitiveness. The Croatian Democratic Community club gives full support to the proposed Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43574	Thank you. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43575	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, union representatives, boys, girls. I am that this law should protect workers, but it should be protected in some way and employers should also protect the state. Speaking of the state, it's clear, it's best protected by honesty, not every day to find out that a large public utility system has been robbed. So is it possible to symbiosis this Labour Act between an employer, a state or a worker? I say it is. Who, at this point, is perhaps the biggest victim in the labour market? The victim, understandably, can't be a state, why? I claim that since 2000, the number in the public administration has been increased by at least 40,000, clearly and state-owned enterprises, grotesquely since 2004. Will any of these people be out of a job? He won't. The same thing, to be clear, was also at local level, so it's not always the one who runs the state, to be clear, the responsibility is on local self-government. We've increased the number of disabled people, say the Homeland War by 10 grand in the last four years, 3,000 HVOs, 15 thousand defenders. It's been all over this place since 2004. Who else profited from relationships like this? They profiled tycoons, those who got everything from the state, now the president of the state. They need to take everything clearly, they have to lose what they took away from the people, they simply have to accept that day or millions are coming. On the other hand, employers who did business outside of turning these people caps down. I should hold them, I dare say, like a little water on my palm. I would even dare say that it may be harder for them than for the workers themselves. They often have less than workers, especially when it comes to these small employers. For example, craftsmen. responds to all their assets, the worker responds to work. I'm 100% on the worker side, but I also think you should tell the truth. A craftsman corresponds to what was created by three, four generations. What did these people from the state get, say? They didn't get anything. Why am I saying that? So to encourage the community and the workers and the craftsmen and those employers outside of the conversion that are not clear, the state was wept. No craftsman, for example. or that one employer by the '90s didn't get a social apartment, almost none. He didn't get to the ground, he didn't get to the stock, he didn't get to the factory, he created everything himself. The rest of the country always gets something, we have to admit it. Some peasants of a country, workers are some social apartment, but these can't buy even city spaces where they work for almost a generation today. What's the point of this law? Today, in 2009, we really have this one situation either we or craftsmen or they. We're workers, craftsmen, employers who didn't participate in the conversion, and those others are normally tycoons and that's the state. I know that when we talk about this law that it is a serious problem, even if it angers the gentleman at the gallery, it means a serious problem in the Republic of Croatia is a union movement. They gave up St. John's Square. Mark, sold St. Mark's Square. Mark for a few promises, Mr. North isn't. Those unions aren't my unions. And then they organize 500 people's gatherings. It clearly offends me almost in a country that is choking under the burden of the social crisis. I'm first, that knows Kunst, broke through the barricades in '98. here in... But what am I saying? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Either the unionists break up or our union movement destroys everything, and that's also the problem with this law. What's the problem? Trade unions operate only in state plus local companies, meaning in public enterprises. That's the problem. One word, we come up with this crisis of their identity. They need help how, so they can be real themselves. Let's be clear, they don't get mad at me, but in 2009, we have a million 570 thousand insurance companies, on the other hand, we have a million 170 thousand pensioners. That ratio is today 1.35 to 1. I think it's only in Istria 1:1,8, but it's a disaster, and it's only gonna happen in the beginning of next year that keeps these systems in real trouble. That number, so the insurance company, the worker will still be I'm afraid to shrink and we'll be out there somewhere around Wazma, around Easter, maybe at a ratio of 1.33, 1.32:1. We will also have 300 thousand unemployed and now we come to this law clearly and the question arises from where help comes from. In the '80s this ratio insurance worker was 1:4, I repeat today is 1:1.35, worker retired, so we're being ill-written but everything, I have an impression, is going to change in due course. Much has to change, whether it's work, pension insurance, because the question is what's going to be left of this country otherwise. Article 9, Article 10, work for a specified time as the central place of this law. I'm not quoting them now. I'll talk about them later. The labour contract shall be concluded for a specified period of time, unless otherwise specified by this law. The labour contract, let the parties commit indefinitely until one of them cancels it or stops in some other way specified by this law. If the working contract does not specify the time at which it is concluded, it shall be deemed to have been concluded indefinitely, etc. Just before, Mr. Lesar said that almost 90% of the people here have been working for a certain amount of time except in state-owned companies. Large companies may be able to hire a man indefinitely. It's going to be very difficult for the little ones. What am I up for? I'm absolutely in favour of working for an indefinite period of time. But who in this country will solve indifference. Because if INA were to follow Croatian highways, for example, they would be able to pay compensation to their companies if they did not steal from themselves. The number of non-equity companies is growing 14 months in a row. The craftsman is in blockade 34904 or 13.3% more than last year in the same period. These crafts employ 23718 people which is 43% more than last year and I won't say it, but it looks like it's going to hell. In industry, 42000 people were out of work this year. By the end of the year, brother to brother 50,000. No one has lost their job in any public enterprise or state or local self-government. Okay. I'm also against firing 20,000 people as someone suggests. But I think there's a lot to be said with the new ministries, enough with the new agencies, enough with the new directorates. I understand that Croatia must have all the institutions such as one Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark. But let's be responsible, let's put it together. Let us not simply waste that national not only energy but also national wealth in such ways. Is there a solution? I want to believe that even this law can somehow be a solution. There must be no exploitation of workers, but what will an employer who has no job due to a decline in consumption, who can't get credit, to whom everything in this country is mortgaged, who can't collect his claims, to whom the state doesn't pay or state-owned companies, whom no one understands again, and we have 200 and I don't know 50, 60 of these parafiscal duties from one ZAMP via the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, City, State, trade unions, etc. etc. Well, of course those people would work. But in circumstances where we have 300,000 unemployed, over 20 billion kunas of indifference how to simply survive these systems. So I'm saying that unions, that workers, employers must be partners, that they simply must not be enemies. Let's get rid of the tycoons, arrest the thieves, clean public institutions from bureaucracy, from parasites, from vultures, from those who steal it, and then I guess everyone in this country will be better off. But let's keep both the worker and the employer clear. Because if they bow down to each other or vice versa, there will be nothing left of our country. What are the basic remarks, i.e. the basic moments of this law? As the Minister of Economy pointed out earlier, the biggest changes relate to work for a certain period of time. So far it has been possible to work for a maximum of 3 years on a given time on the same business with one employer, while the new law introduces a provision that contracts can be concluded for a certain period of time for the same or different jobs that the worker performs for that employer or for the same employer. Also, the rights of workers employed at a certain time with those indefinitely have been leveled. In addition, the same important change is the right to an annual vacation of 4 weeks, and if the worker has not taken advantage of the right to an annual vacation and moves to another employer, the old employer is obliged to pay him money for the unused vacation. Fourth. One of the most important changes is the removal of a work book we've known so far. So that virtual card should somehow replace that workbook, etc. Independent Croatian trade unions had one interesting, I don't know what I'm going to call it a study of women and a new Labour Act, so I can only quote that in the section that provides literally quoted additional protection for women in relation to working conditions. As a result, a ban on women's night work in industry according to the European Union's position in industry is lifted, and there are no longer such difficult working conditions that require special protection for women. A strange European standard, but let me quote here what it says. Moreover, in the European Union, there is a view that the right to protection is equal to both women and men, and that any counter-treatment represents direct discrimination that leads men into an unequal position. You can't imagine how that's holding water! And because of this Labour Act, there is a ban on the night work of pregnant women, but only if an authorised doctor has found that such work endangers her life and health. The trade unions are the view that the above provision should be prescribed in the opposite way, i.e. to determine how a pregnant woman's employer should determine nighttime work only if an authorised doctor determines that such work does not endanger her life and health. I couldn't agree more with one of those opinions. It is clear that, with this law, we need to work with all those who, as I said, are exorcising from the inside. Let's say in this HAC this yesterday's arrest, who chose these people. The council didn't, the government set them up. Who was watching them? The council didn't, the government did. In whose name they stole, not just in their own, and now we see why some went away. But it is not possible that one kilometer of road in Croatia stands twice as much as the road in Montenegro, etc. etc. If those problems were to be solved by the gentlemen you call upon me, then surely workers' rights could be met, then workers' rights would be respected and those principles should be fought for. Through honesty, then, we will surely come to an honest labour law. There's room for the law to be better. There is room to agree on this law and trade unions with employers without, say, parliamentary arbitration and mediation. And if nothing is sacred nor is this Labour Law, then, over time, it is likely that some additional conditions will change and harmonize with the reality in which we live today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43576	Thank you. It's the SDSS club, the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43577	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. On behalf of the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, I will look into it, or try to make a comment and review of this text at the public hearing today, for the reason that we are experiencing the Labour Act as a Bible of all working relationships. The well-ordered standards in the Labour Act are the basis for us and the strongest protection, both workers and employers. At the same time, the best instrument for regulating the labour market, especially this liberal type, is not to say the neoliberal that the market today is in the Republic of Croatia. The regulated markets in Scandinavian countries, for example, labour institutions have arranged to the smallest details. Therefore, there is probably a need for this text of the law that we started to discuss today to be discussed calmly, without haste, to hear and debate the interests of all stakeholders and to adopt a whole text that should tomorrow be both stimulating text and defence mechanism and workers and employers in the period that comes and in the markets that are waiting for us, and according to which we do not have any special experience. The proposed text of this law would be shared by my perception of two groups of normative solutions. The first group is the one referring to an attempt to strengthen the position of workers by additional instruments and to strengthen their position on the domestic labour market. And the other group of normative solutions mainly refers to some, not some new world that we do not know, which is the world of European, European labour institutions. These are, as we see here, European working councils, negotiating committees, European society, European cooperatives. Since it's a whole new experience from this sphere for me I wouldn't have the courage to comment too much on the solution of these institutes, let someone who has some kind of stronger knowledge and stronger experience do it. I will try to look back from the intention of commenting and with some kind of experience strengthening certain articles of this legislative proposal. I'd like to start with Article 5 that talks about it... obligations and labour rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This article in paragraph 4 decidedly states that direct or indirect discrimination in the field of work, working conditions, including these most important selection criteria and employment conditions, and I will stop there. This is a perfectly desirable, perfectly normal one disposition that also has its constitutional foundations, and yet my comment would be next. Do we think that with this one dispositive norm, as defined by this definition, we can force a private employer not to choose in the process of selecting the workers of whom he wants? Do we think that we can make him choose someone other than the one he chose? That's what I'm saying because my experience here in Baranja, in the combination of Belje, only a small number of Serbs do, and in the winery there's absolutely no one, and there was a large number. So, if that were different and this norm would fix that situation anytime soon, I'd be perfectly satisfied and I'd say it's the right solution. I'm afraid it's going to be a long time when we look at this kind of discrimination in a completely different way. At the same time, there is also a question of the new character of the market and the arrival of foreign workers on our market and the competition of these foreign workers from different European Community countries in competition with domestic workers. Did we say what our position was on that? Besides, this standard, this disposition is not sanctioned by any sanctions. Thus, in itself it says how declarative it is.-- The second thing I would say is Article 12 paragraph 5 of this law, which guides us and says this, that an employer among other things is obliged to deliver a copy of the application to compulsory pension, health insurance within 15 days, etc., etc. And that's all right, and that's that classic copy of M's retirement insurance forms, but practice says something else. Practice suggests that the pension insurance application does not monitor the simultaneous payment of pension insurance obligations. So there is a situation that by going into bankruptcy of a particular company, certain companies workers have a big problem proving that they have been paid for the pension internship. Therefore, we specifically think that here we should install the obligation to present to workers every year at the end of the fiscal year a document that the employer at the same time not only reported him to the pension service, but also paid the financial payment of that part of his commitment that he had to pay. Next thing you know, I'd like to comment on it, which is an article 37 that defines the concept of trainees and the status of trainees. Where it is said in paragraph 1 that a person who is first employed in the profession for which the employer has been educated may be employed. So what I think should be done here, i.e. A provision should be installed to stimulate the employer. Especially those employers who employ through employees, over 20 employees, means employers who also have services, who have certain programmes, that they simply have to be employed on an annual basis by a number of trainees. The state must, of course, stimulate them in some way, but the point is that young people who graduate from colleges, including high schools and trades, can't have a single working relationship unless they have confirmation of a completed traineeship, so if we don't allow those young people to complete a proper traineeship, then how do we expect these young people to continue to make their work contributions and get employed somewhere? The following thing I would point out is Article 85(3), which speaks of salaries, the employer, is obliged here to pay the payment of the amount on the day of maturity and then obtains the character of the executive document. Basically it's okay, the executive document is one very serious document, which, the moment you get it, you have certain rights that activate in the way you do. We know how it works, we know how it's done in the public record business, how it's going to be done in this business. And the other thing is whether workers are going to abuse this fact of the executive I.D. every time the employer is late with his salary paid. So I would suggest here to install a defence mechanism in favour of the employer and to specify more precisely how this instrument of execution will be used. And I would finally say something about Article 107(7), which says that the employer who, by business condition, cancelled the worker must not hire another worker for the next six months on the same jobs, I think that this deadline is too short and I think it is a six-month deadline that can be manipulated in a way that the employer, when he wants to get rid of a certain worker, risks losing him and after 6 months on the same job, receives another worker. I think this deadline should be longer and it should be at least 12 months in order to eliminate that possibility of manipulation. I don't think this law should come into force within the time limit that is given here, because there is simply a need for these texts and these solutions to be further debated in public, to hear the opinions of all interested people and to bring one text done in another reading, if not with these remarks, then with the remarks that we will hear today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43578	Thank you. It is on behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43579	Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, distinguished union colleagues. Let me say a few words on behalf of the SDP Club about this law. In fact, this is one of the most important laws that we have passed, and the SDP Club pays particular attention to it, we have also worked on our own law for over a year, then as these variants appear, we have tried to do what we thought and what we thought in cooperation with union representatives, and with experts from universities and elsewhere, so that among the people's some trade unions we will make at least such amendments that will make a good contribution to the single leap of this law to a sphere which he has not reached here and what will be spoken of. In fact, there are more than 40 amendments somewhere, this is a material that regulates the fundamental relations of political, fundamental political relations arising from the relationship between labour and capital and those representing work and which represent capital and in fact each state, and then democracy and the degree of democracy actually measures what has been achieved in this sphere. This is therefore also something without which the state, labour rights, labour rights, labour relations and capital cannot be left to the international community, then also those who quote often the European Union, as a criterion, would have to quote another part, which is that a large part of the labour law and labour rights are achieved subsidically within the framework of national rights, and that most often those national rights are related to improving the labour situation in the countries concerned compared to the minimum standards prescribed in the European Union. This Labour Act changes to align with EU gains, key changes to the law relate to amending provisions governing working time, working for a certain time, and introduces new institutes as workers' rights to participate in decision-making in multinational companies, European societies, European cooperatives through the European Workers' Council and other forms of participation of decision-makers. However, they do not follow a higher level of European standards and at the level of expectations and at the level of union demands, not only unions and those who advocate industrial democracy but those who advocate political democracy I think they are below that level and we will ultimately suggest that this goes into third reading, regardless of what is achieved that this can be served as a text for a third reading. I'd like to share our remarks on several key chapters. First, when it comes to working for a certain period of time, it is regulated in Article 10. It is governed by a Directive of the European Union which requires Member States to prevent abuses in the conclusion of the Labour Treaty for a period of time through the installation of the provisions of the Directive into national legislation. The amendments to these institutes that have occurred in the Law since 2003 have made it much easier to conclude a work contract at a certain time and in some ways an abuse has occurred beyond any expectations. This abuse seems to be from there, that as 85% of workers have already been employed since 2003 for a certain period of time. In this respect, the SDP proposes to amend the provisions of Article 10. ... limit the possibility of abuse of the conclusion of a work contract for a certain period of time in order to fully meet the EU's objectives and acquiss in one word to reduce that period from 3 to 1 year and also reduce the number of possible contract signings. A question about curbing work on black as well as a delicate and specific question in our case. In order to curb work on black and tax ejaculation contrary to the proposals of the State Inspectorate of the SDP, it proposes to reduce the period for the application of workers to pension and health from 15 to 8 days, this seems only to be a sort of halving of someone's deadline, however, it is important that the 15-day period is double shifted, and then 30 days, the period of 8 days actually comes down to 15 days, as unfortunately it is in our delays the records and inspection possibilities are realized. Then there is the complex of issues of work arrangements through the Agency for Temporary Employment, especially one sad chapter in practice in Croatia, referred to Articles 26 and 28. In order to clarify the regulation of legal provisions governing the work of workers through temporary employment agencies, the SDP proposes to regulate the definition of temporary work, to shorten the period of temporary work through the temporary employment agency for a maximum period of 3 months, that is now a year, and to limit the number of workers that can be employed by the employer through the temporary employment agency. The work of workers through those agencies is a legalised zone of the black labour market and workers are in a more unfavourable position and are being exploited. Then there is the complex of the organisation of working time as one particularly undetectable, it is in some way based on the most common abuses. The key amendment to the provisions of the Labour Act also refers to the full harmonisation of Croatian labour legislation with Directive 88 of 2003. The EEC which regulates the organisation of working time. The basic principles on which the directive rests and according to which it is necessary to regulate the organisation... therefore all the values which I would not repeat here but which speak about the minimum right of workers, about 48 hours, etc., options that do not pass 48 hours, which, under the EU's exception, introduce the possibility of working longer than 48 hours, because different exceptions and extensions are greatly falsified so as to say to the Corps of possible abuses or possible interpretations. Therefore, based on its amendments to those principles, the SDP proposes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 46, it shall prevent the inability to further flexibility of the organisation of working time, i.e. the retention of 48 hour working hours, rather than the introduction of an average 40 hour time within 4 months. This provision will lead to non-payment of overtime hours, as the average will be 40 hours in 4 months in the future, and the number of hours of work per week is decided by the employer, whether 48, 46, 35 etc. In Article 47, the maximum weekly working hours should be limited to 48 hours with the possibility of working until 56 hours, but only when it comes to seasonal activities. It is an institute that has not been reached at EU level by consensus, so it should be maximum limit. So where there is no consensus in Europe, it is more and more important for our legislation to achieve it and limit it to the benefit of workers. And that government can't say that it stands between workers and employers. The government must be clearly identified on whose side they stand and in particular what it stands on whose side, because it is not an uninterested third technological factor within the relationship between workers and employers, but is an integral part of these relations. It's a matter of rest and leave. In accordance with the provisions of the Directive, the duration of minimum annual leave should be regulated in accordance with the existing tradition. The Government's proposal will lead to the unequal position of workers depending on whether the worker works for 6 or 5 days a week. They'll both be entitled to four weeks, but the duration of the week is not the same for a worker who has five working days or six days a week. So far, he's been counting on weekdays, so he's working for a five-day worker. 4 weeks equals 20 days, and for the one who works 6 days equals 24 days. Similarly, it is proposed to regulate the rights of workers working part-time on 5 weeks of vacation. It is also proposed to delete mandatory termination of employment by law when the worker is 65 years of age. This is an outdated and inhumane provision that is not practiced in most developed countries with a stronger culture of work. To delete the obligation of workers to apply to the employer for protection of the right before the action is brought. I think it is also the source of possible abuses of delaying to respond, and thus the worker puts himself in as much as it does not have to be in a more favourable position to sue labour rights and we come up with something that we think is particularly important, which is one whole complex that would probably make some of these provisions unnecessary if it were, which is actually participatory rights, rights of co-decision, the rights that are liquids in Europe, the rights that we are deregulation of the former system. But also, by not regulating the new system, they bring the new system to a minimum, i.e. reduce to a mere empty letter, a form that even as a form includes a very small number of employees and a very small number of companies in which these employees work. And it should emulate the whole sphere of labour relations and employers. It is necessary to strengthen the system of participation of workers in decision-making through the strengthening of the roles and functions of the working councils, and to reduce the limit for the establishment of working councils from 20 to 5 workers so far, to establish labour council statistics to see what is and to monitor what is going on. This includes Articles 136 to 153 where the article 150 should define what is the matter, not the mere declaration. That's what I'm going back to. A greater role should be played by the union in the selection of workers' representatives in the negotiating committee on negotiations, and by the basis of European working councils and workers' rights to participate in decision-making in the European society and the European Union. I think the legislation wants to avoid strengthening the role of the union is not in favour of resolving this key issue. Strengthening the unions' role, stabilising unions, and some to say the legal presence of unions in some elements can positively determine the union scene, and thus also the political scene and stabilise the real political scene in Croatia. This is a complex that is far behind. Therefore, the SDP in amendments 136 to 153 requires an increase in the number of members of the working council, more candidates in their election, and most importantly, their greater powers in terms of information, we are looking at written consultation and co-decision of workers on decisions concerning status and labour rights. In particular, I draw attention to Article 150 where decisions are determined which the employer may make only with the prior consent of the working council. The bill offers co-decision only on the cancellation of members of the working age, persons with disabilities, a worker over 60 years of age. We've been thinking for 50 years. And therefore reduces these rights, and in fact avoids defining the main rights of the working council. This is the setting of evaluations and criteria for rewarding work and labour efficiency. Plan of working hours, plan of vacations, scope and reasons for the introduction of overtime to mention just some. Without such ingenuity, the working councils are just a mere decoration and do not lead to what should be achieved. And with these implementations, believe me, half of these problems that arise in this law should not be mentioned, but would be solved on the spot which, of course, has a form of social consensus and a much better quality solution than political intrusion. Why am I talking about co-decision? This is one of the fundamental rights in the European Union under Article 27. The European Charter of Fundamental Rights. They're included in the Lisbon Treaty, so I don't understand when we're already talking, and when we're already on the Lisbon Treaty, in addition to a whole series of things that we're doing in favor of and in working rights. We only adhere to those elements of support for the requirements that come from non-oliberal European associations which concern the neoliberal rights and here we have the opportunity to comply with workers' rights, so I ask that we take into account the fact that this country is the state of those who do, and these are workers in the first place. It has been shown that these rights, with solidarity, promote competence and productivity in industrial enterprises and relations are more harmonious, less strikes, workers are obviously more satisfied with their salaries and working conditions. Many polls show that workers are most often the first to question relationships with them, work and motivation from other things. This is an opportunity for basic social relations to pass a law which can be equal to the law for any party in this country to our great speaker, or the House of Commons, because I assume here that everyone would like to show the interests of the widest part of the population of Croatia, which is in any case workers with their labour rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43580	Thank you. It is next to the club of representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43581	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing an important bill, not only because its adoption is necessary for the closure of Chapter 19 relating to social policy and employment but also because of all Croatian workers as well as our employers. We know that our country has been exposed to aggression and that due to the war, direct investment in new production processes has been lost. After that, privatisation occurred and most of the production was shut down. The result is the loss of many jobs, leading to high unemployment as well as a general decline in standards. Today, the opening of every new job is also good news and it is legally necessary to remove all obstacles that stand in the way of increasing employment so that all those who can get a chance to work. We at the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this bill not only because we are in line with the legal acquis of the European Union but also because we believe it brings certain improvements that will protect workers' rights on the one hand but also free the room for employers to employ a larger number of Croatian citizens. We know that the economy is in recession and that the preservation of every remaining job is necessary. Statistics show that more than half of Croatian households estimate their current financial situation worse than a year ago and do not expect citizens to be better off next year. But the changes made to this legislative proposal do not diminish the rights of workers acquired. In a certain sense, however, they are further protected but with the right unions warn of the fact that since 2003, to date, there are around 80% of the working contracts that have been concluded. This legislative proposal limits work to three years, regardless of whether a worker is working in the same job or another job, with the same employer, which will end up with the practice of hiring someone at a certain time indefinitely. Because in three years, if he has proved to be able to work such a worker, then he should also be employed indefinitely and not constantly keeping him in suspense from contract to contract and thus further create a climate of uncertainty in society because of the possible loss of employment. Also, the rights of workers employed for a certain period of time by this legislative proposal are equal to the rights of workers employed indefinitely. The proposal also regulates the maximum working time per week including overtime that cannot be more than 48 hours per week but also allows for certain flexibility in the organisation and schedule of working hours for specific activities. It also regulates the right to a week's vacation as well as the shortest vacation that cannot last less than four weeks. The introduction of the definition of comparable workers also enables more effective control of equal conditions in full and incomplete working hours. We also believe that the suspension of the work book after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union is an improvement for workers. Since a certain administrative obstacle to the free employment of workers has been lifted and there have been cases where the employer, after the termination of the contract, refused to return the book to the worker and thus suspended him for his rights and prevented him from hiring. Her disappearance will avoid that. Also, the complications that she sometimes used to create for people were bureaucracy that in some cases refused to enroll acquired knowledge in the workbook. In Croatia, we recognise the value of the work of both agriculture and sewing machine or computer, classroom or college as well as trade. We believe that anyone who can and wants in Croatia should have the opportunity to earn their bread fairly in accordance with acquired knowledge and skills. We therefore welcome the provisions in this legislative proposal aimed at anti-discrimination and the protection of workers' dignity raised to the level of fundamental rights. All employees in the Republic of Croatia provide us with services or products, what we need for the standard of life we are used to. On the other hand, work enables every person to make the income necessary to ensure existence, but it also enables him to develop its potential. In addition, one of the fundamental human rights can be a cause of dissatisfaction if it does not meet expectations, but it can also be a source of joy. But we are aware that in society, especially among young people, work is often diminished, and more are those who instead want to earn money without sweat or effort. We should not be surprised because we read about those who in relatively little time made a huge fortune on the pages of daily presses. So the value of the work is reduced, so it is forgotten that the word work and joy have the same root, that the worker contributes to the general good in society. We in the HSS want to believe in the good will of employers to pay their workers honestly, to give them an appropriate job and not deprive them of their rights. We also want to believe in the good will of the workers that the adopted work will do the best that they can and will not abuse the rights guaranteed by this legal proposal. Only if we do not have a figure in our pocket when doing our daily work can we hope that Croatia will become a country in which anyone who can work will be employed, fairly paid for their work and that this salary will enable him to exist a decent man. Then they will also gain knowledge at the price, and young people will instead seek to learn and acquire new knowledge and new skills in the virtual world instead of running away from everyday life. All this can't be guaranteed by the law, as good as it is, but first of all it depends on what kind of people we are, whether we want to cooperate or just order, whether we watch our own pocket or recognize and respect other people's work and other people's knowledge. And that applies to both the employer and the workers. We at the HSS Club believe that the Labour Act is not the only and biggest source of workers' rights, but workers' rights are regulated by some other legal regulations. And the fundamental question that is being asked whether this proposal reduces the existing right of workers. According to us, these acquired rights of workers, the existing rights of workers are not diminished but are increasing. But are they enough? We think they're not and they need to be further increased and strengthened. We believe that by adapting our legal regulations to European Union regulations, workers' rights will also improve, social partners' views will be increasingly closer and more harmonised in the interest and to the satisfaction of our workers. From all this, the HSS club will support the draft labour law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43582	Thank you. And it is the turn of the HNS club, the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43583	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Ministers with associates and associates, union presidents, colleagues and colleagues. It would be very nice today if we could determine that yesterday we are in the preparation of the budget for the next year are able to promise to encourage employment, to promote production, competitiveness, exports and thus ensure one security of our citizens and their better lives. In fact, she promised it to all of us behind this pay phone a few months ago when Mrs. Kosor took over the most significant post in the government when she said, quote: "Governmental measures will strongly boost economic growth and macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia." If that were the case, then this draft labour law would be a logical continuation of a serious job to regulate in a civilised and correct way relations between workers and employers. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, that's not the case. The 2010 budget, as far as work is concerned, is the most expensive method for artificial breathing in Europe. A method I can't put my hand in the fire to keep the economy alive, and that's why I'm not sure we're going to need this new law at all. My colleagues and colleagues, in the real sector today, only 800,000 people work. They feed over 3 million and 600,000 souls, first their families, then the complete public sector and finally their backs from month to month the wars of the great debt of the Republic of Croatia arrive. In February alone, the debt, or war, will amount to half a billion euros. Furthermore, we have heard today, not to say too much, that a large part of these workers are working on the contract for a certain time. A large part of these people get one part of the salary on the current account, another part directly on their hands, etc., so one sad and sad story. My colleagues and colleagues, last week, you had a chance to talk to the Dalmatinian workers from Sinj. I went to them, talked to them, and what to conclude rather than another sad and sad story. Last weekend I spoke to several workers on May 3, another sad and sad story. What has the Government, colleagues and colleagues done to strongly boost economic growth and ensure the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia? Another sad and sad story. Here's another example. The government used to save jobs when we recently re-enabled smoking in catering facilities. But it is not, the government has actually shown that in Croatia we do not have a P from the rule of law. Because, colleagues and colleagues in Europe, when they introduced a smoking ban in catering facilities guess who was the initiator to ban smoking? They were just caterers. Why the caterers? Because if a non-smoking waiter were to suffer from chronic lung disease, God would not give lung cancer to God then he would sue his employer and then his employer would have to sell both his restaurant and all his property to deprive the worker and his family. It's a legal state. When a worker gets sick, he goes into the street and comes from the bureau a new worker. So much for the work and the rights of the workers. A sad and sad story. This government's behaviour in the context of a severe economic crisis, increasing unemployment, indivisibility that grows at a galloping speed and very difficult conditions for the business of the Croatian economy is actually very, very dangerous. How else do you call the government's call to unions and employers to agree on their own, rather than as hypocrites and attempt to get away from responsibility. The government is using this situation to push through minor changes to close one negotiating chapter. So this law has theoretical weight, not practical weight. The proposed changes if you entered a little more detail into the bill, you saw that they were not essential. They're cosmetic. These changes do not diminish, however, we must be correct in the rights of workers. However, if we look at all the open issues that the trade unions have been warning about for years, which we've just pushed under the carpet, then you'll see that we haven't solved anything with this proposal. Yesterday we saw that the draft budget predicts that one item is increasing by 2 billion kuna that is for pensions. We also know why, because in next year, a huge number of people will be out of retirement, out of work, out of work, so all those who have minimum pension conditions will retire. That's why the increase. That's why the increase, not to raise the pensioner standard. At the same time, the government has not taken a single step to allow those who lose their jobs to reorient themselves and to work in other jobs. That is why the Croatian People's Party will not and cannot support this bill until those important problems for our workers are really solved, for all our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43584	Thank you. This ended the discussion by clubs, and I also inform that in 11,06, the possibility of Article 207(2) ended. The Rules of Procedure have expired time to report a ten-minute hearing. We're moving on to an individual debate and I'm informing the MPs that we have 34 individual applications. The first in line is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I have submitted to this bill only 18 amendments. I'm not going to talk about the content and reasons in my debate right now. That's what I'll take advantage of when the minister repels them with pleasure, I guess, next week. And secondly, I want to say that I am terribly sorry that this debate is not followed by the Minister of Justice and the State's Attorney, because only then could we speak equally of such an important law as the Labour Act. By my judgment and the best Law on Legal Labour does not mean anything to workers, literally nothing if the state is unable to implement the legal rules entered in it. And the Croatian state at the head of this government does not want and is unable to protect workers' rights. I repeat, the most perfect Labour Act does not mean anything so long as every worker's right to be described in that law that has been violated will not be returned quickly, expressly and justly. In 2007, there were 111 labour inspectors in the State Inspectorate. They had 12200 surveillance, 16,000 violations, 6400 indictments filed. They found 2856 undeclared workers and filed 57 criminal charges. 2008 134 labour inspectors 13000 surveillance, 14000 violations, 5700 indictments, 2215 undeclared workers and only 36 criminal charges. With this number of inspectors, Mr. Minister, it takes 14 years for regular supervision to be performed in Croatian businesses. Second, the state's attorney reported that in the past year he had only 193 criminal charges under Article 114 of labour rights violations. Now I ask, if 2 and a half thousand workers were found working on black of which the largest number of foreigners, and the State Inspectorate only gave 37 criminal charges whether it means that in Croatia illegal employment and Croatian citizens and foreigners is not a criminal offence. 60,000 workers working, not getting paid, 37 criminal charges. It is proven at the head with Bajic and Minister Šimonovic and you ministers that work in Croatia and do not receive salaries is legal. It can only be a minor offense if only then and if someone dares to report it because the inspector won't find it. They don't find it, they don't sanction it, they don't report it as committing the crime referred to in Article 114. And as long as the head of the State's Attorney's Office is a person who so closely interprets Article 114. The penal code, colleagues from the union, whatever law you have chosen for workers, you will not bring benefits until you force the executive authority to organise itself in a way that sanctions and controls both those in traffic and those in the labour market that cracks workers' rights. Since 2000, I've heard that the labour market must be made flexible. And what are we doing? What the governments suggest. Flexible layoffs, flexible layoffs, flexible labour loss and your working future. But the people of my flexible labour market also means that how fast and easy you can get fired, so fast and easy, you have to find a chance to find a new job. It's a flexible labour market. So when you refer to the legal gains of the European Union and Europe, then say that everywhere where the labour market is flexible, it implies a two-way street. Not one-way. You have introduced a one-way street on the labour market, doing absolutely nothing to enable and to realize that losing a job is not an individual or an individual's problem, that the loss of each job and any resignation in the state must be a problem for the community of society and authorities. It's a flexible labour market, then. We introduced everything flexible, fired, employed on certain, cancelled deadlines, severances almost abolished, night work on Sundays, holidays and holidays paid as much as you gave. If you swear more than that, it's in accordance with the law, even with this one. And I was surprised by a piece of information that my colleague, Maric, told me last night in this hall. Listen carefully, in the last 10 years, Croatian capitalists have achieved 222 billion net profits. 222 billion net profits, 22 billion a year. No one transmitted that information. About that, that's the first time I heard that data yesterday. No one has denied it, no medium has transmitted that information. Is it possible that they have such an impact on the media that this information is hidden? So if 222 billion kuna profits, the net profit in 10 years was, was that part of that profit so huge and large and the consequence of that flexible labour market. After all, I wonder where she ended up? Where did these 222 billion kunas end in the last 10 years? As regards the provisions of the law itself, Article 4 of the record of presence at work, or the record of working time, you write. Ministers, record of presence or absence from work. Ask your inspectors how important it is that this record exists, the boot, for possible control fees. You do not want to accept, and you are removing all the old regulations in the work mandate, that the employer, not the capitalist but the employer, which is management, must keep and organise to keep records. To make a collective contract or company regulation available, Article 6. How? Tell me, did your inspectors give any sentence to an employer who didn't hand over a collective contract or made a collective contract available? You do not sanction or control the right of the declaration. This Regulation shall enter I call it continuing the introduction that Croatian employment lives and works for a certain time. Croatian workers 86%, not first-timers, as someone has been trying to plant them lately, 86% of workers are employed for a certain and so on for years. These aren't the first jobs. Article 24 is not new. The slave rental agency. The agency that deals with renting workers is, you have turned it into your art of original purpose, when it's being introduced to today, look what it's doing. They make contracts, pick up 5,000 workers per worker, pay the workers 3,000 kuna. Mobile operators, all Croatian mobile operators use 80% of your employees to rent from agencies. The pay gap is 1 to 2. You've legalized a simple theft of workers' salaries because you didn't control it and you don't know that information. Article 41 of the Volunteers. First you train people for professions that can't do internships, and then you force all the young women who graduated from school for nurses, physiotherapists, technicians to work for free for the state. Croatian hospitals are full of young people who volunteer for 6 months, even travel expenses must be paid. The state uses young people she first trained, then doesn't give them a trainee's contract, but they have to volunteer. And I'm ending up with a provision that I'm going to quote from the law, somebody translate it for me. ... It's in my head. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The day of the week's rest, the worker shall use on Sundays, or on the day that precedes it or beyond it. Well, for God's sake, you don't know that Sunday precedes Saturday, and Sunday follows Monday. So what are the provisions of the law you write? On a day that precedes Sunday or Sunday follows. Or change the names of the day in the week, I don't understand anything anymore. So I think with such a text of the law come to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43586	Thank you. We have four replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lesar, you said that here in Croatia is actually a common practice and no one is excited because 60 thousand workers do not receive their salary and allegedly work. And it's working. But have you ever seen you and I, we have quite a number of years, that workers publicly, so via electronic media, so on television they cry, that workers pay, don't strike, don't sign petitions, don't demonstrate, they cry. I personally didn't see it in that former state either, here we see the worker is "Zomromrexa", ironworks so Split, "Dalmatinka" Sinj, etc., who cry in front of the cameras. It never was. There's the impotence, there's one thing you can see, there's one really extreme, let's say, the degutant relationship of this country and employers to the workers. And the fact that workers are crying, seeing their tears on TV, it's really unmarked not only in our history, I guess, in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43588	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43589	Comrade Boro, you're right. You had opportunities, we all had opportunities together and saw a young man crying because he had survived his daughter's allowance from his wallet for the last few days. But it's the only one the television has managed to show. I assure you, there are several tens of thousands of people crying a day in Croatia. It's not a question of impotence, it's the intention of this government, deliberately missing out on surveillance, control, and I claim that we are powerless, and even when we all testify for years that we're getting out of Croatia, that we're not investing, that extra profits are achieved by working on black, and even a part of these companies get jobs in competitions opened by the state and that they pay the state. But who cares if workers are crying, who's worried about the fate of a young man where the husband and wife at the same firm got fired, so we have to have a flexible market because otherwise the economy is going to fail, we have to fire the workers when who and how they want it because it's only then that they'll be competitive. And where is the profit, how much of it was invested, how much of it was coming back to the workers, so you have a contract for a certain time that you care about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43590	Thank you. Replicated representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43591	Dear colleague Lesar, it seems to me that you want to say a lot about this Law, and you have obviously what to say and it seems to me that you have failed to emphasize an important fact which is that unpaid work is actually a cancer of the Croatian Society that threatens to metastasize. In view of the relationship between pensioners and workers, except that the worker is damaged and the state is damaged because it cannot give money in development but because of the lack of money paid in contribution to alimony of pensions from other tax revenues which could be intended for health care, education, etc. And I think you forgot to say one fact that most Croatian companies say their profits most of them, honor those exceptions, earn their profits due to a monopolitical position or create because of the unpaid or underpaid work of their workers and cannot possibly thank their profits for a good position on the domestic or world market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43592	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of my colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43593	I said a lot of things to my colleague Silvano, but I'm just getting started, because there's gonna be a lot of time. There's another absurd state behavior that when the employer finds out he's not paying the workers, then he realizes he's not paying his pension contributions. And what it does, as the state defends itself, doesn't recognise the period for workers to retire when you make employers pay for your regulations, they contribute because otherwise it won't get into your employment. Give it to him and take care of it. And even when these debts reach 10, 20 million, the finance minister doesn't launch a bankruptcy procedure through his mechanisms, suffers, postpones, waits. And then the employer is a capitalist state problem and we have to take him down and the workers are an individual problem and he'll be out of work. How can it be that the state knows, and even harmonize contracts on... these obligations without simultaneously taking care of workers at least in part of the retirement insurance position? And imagine, youngsters, but when it happens to someone who's three or four years old until retirement or when he finds out only when he wants to retire, he didn't even have a kuna of paid contributions two years ago. Last year's State Inspectorate report, I found it on their websites, I can't wait here, I've prepared it by the structure of the offense, let's see what the inspectors found on the ground of these 14 thousand surveillance, 6300 reports that were filed. You may all become aware of what needs to be changed in the Law and what institutions to establish. There are more wine inspectors in Croatia than labour inspectors.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43594	Thank you. And now it's the turn of the line, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43595	I'm a colleague of Lesar's. You mentioned a flexible discharge. I have no idea what it is, and probably not even 99% of Croatian citizens, I'll give you an example and you tell me if that's it. Two weeks ago, I got a call from a woman who works at the hair salon, the landlady called her and said tomorrow you're not getting any pay, but I expect you to keep coming to work because you're happy with those tips you get from the women you're washing your hair with. Is that a flexible discharge, because she's fired, but she can come to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43596	Thank you. It's not a current watch, but I'd like to ask the Honorable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43597	That's what you mean when I sit down there and it'll be the actual clock. My colleague Doric, not only in these service activities, unfortunately, has such behaviour in production activities. But the fact that it is a flexible dismissal, and this model of behaviour towards workers is one of the Croatian government's anti-recession measures, because if it wasn't, they would have prevented it, so it's one of the anti-recession measures that the Government of Jadranka Kosor is helping employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43598	Thank you, I haven't read that in an anti-recession fashion anywhere. But let's move on with the replicas, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43599	A colleague, Lesar, you reiterated the information that Maric said yesterday that one layer of people in Croatia earned about 220 billion kuna, at the same time, we know that one layer of people is out of work, there is no naked life, that only the first 6 months of this year, 50 thousand people are out of work, and that points to one dramatic distribution of our society, one discord, one divergence between the two worlds that exist in Croatia, with one very small and very rich, and the other is numerous but increasingly poor. I'm afraid that such a model that isn't even at the level of capitalist model neoliberalism, but some kind of socialdarwinistic theory in which it's meant to say that only the most capable succeeds and succeeds as when we open up a newspaper as we can see thanks to relationships sometimes to crime and theft, etc., and to those others who are more likely to fall into dramatic human situations because they're not able to survive saying that the bad model on which, that they don't fit the legs on which this society stands and that something needs to be changed. It's a question and dilemma, a problem that is common, and for which we are all responsible, however not equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43600	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43601	My colleague Jurjevic was well aware that I was repeating the data from my colleague Maric last night, I said in the last 10 years net profits of 222 billion, but you said one layer. I just want to help you and all of us, to understand, it's not one layer. Croatia is in capitalism, capital owners are capitalists, labour owners are workers, workers are at a loss, and capitalists have achieved a net profit of 222 billion in 10 years or 22 billion a year. I don't know why you're afraid to use the word capitalist, because I can't stand the fact that we're saying we're in capitalism, but we're the only country that instead of capitalists pretend we have employers and how we still have entrepreneurs. Capital owners are capitalists, not entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43602	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43603	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. If we start from the fact that work is the fundamental dimension of human existence, then the Labour Act is certainly one of the most important laws. Not only in Croatia, but in all democratic and socialised states. The value of work is the engine of economic development, social opportunities, the competitiveness of a country, and the very value of society. If the value of the work is low and underrated, then we have a poor and unsatisfactory people. And we also know that social differences trigger conflicts between the elite and the poor. So it's very important here today to discuss and discuss what kind of law we're making, whether this law will allow the company's engine to work properly, quietly as a wurrier to say or the engine's work will choke, and then there's no way we can move or move into a better future. I must stress that this is one of the few labour laws that has been adopted or amended since 1999, so to this day that does not reduce the existing rights of employees, which I have previously highlighted in earlier discussions, except in the part where, due to the application of the European Commission directive on the application of the principle of equality between men and women, women are no longer exempt from the ban on night work. So it was not the will of this government, this state, but unfortunately it is the fact where Croatia must respect this directive. The fact is that the current rights of workers are partly improved in favour of workers in the part where they comply with the European Union directives, which I have already numbered so there is no need to repeat myself now. The fact is that social partners worked together on the text of this law and did not agree to more rigorous labour legislation, but rather, as it had not been before, I must say, they had already respected the legal gains of the European Union. But despite working together on the text of the law, there are always certain interests. The interests of the trade union, the interests of employers, were the interests of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and they were the interests of some other stakeholders, such as the Ombudsman for gender equality, as well as the Association "Iskorak", and the lesbian group "Kontra", the Women's Network of Croatia, along with other proposals for the protection of so-called "Kontra". eternal fees in the media. All these suggestions and amendments are worth the attention, and trust me, most of them I support. But since these are more or less interesting questions, they need to be discussed when amending the Labour Act. There was no time for further delaying the adoption of this proposed Labour Act. Croatia must close negotiating chapter 19. – Social policy and employment, where Croatian labour legislation must be in line with the European Union directives, and that is exactly what this proposal of the Labour Act is before us. Since I do not have enough time in the debate to take all the valuable proposals that I have received and the remarks and amendments that have arrived at this Labour Act, I will single out only one valuable and important, which is important because in the dispute between the union and the employers, as social partners, this is work for a certain time. And the union's desire to protect workers who cannot be employed indefinitely, which supports the Labour Act as a rule, while working for a certain time as a truth. Unfortunately, the fact is that in practice, some employers abuse this labour institute that was incorporated into the Labour Act as early as 2003. Working for a certain time in total employment for 2008 has a share of 81.3%, according to data from the Croatian Employment Service. This means that 104 thousand 287 people are employed for a certain time, and only 23 thousand 941 for an indefinite period of time. If compared to 2007 the share of employment was increased to a certain time and reduced to an indefinite time by 1.3% points. For some time, they employ the most trade activities, processing industry, then hotels, restaurants, etc. However, this work for a certain time would not be so controversial that these workers who are employed for a certain period of time do not treat our society and institutions as second-row persons, who in these days can neither receive consumer loans nor housing loans, nor can they reach checks, nor can they reach cards, can they come up with all those benefits that have employees indefinitely. And there's one big problem, because unfortunately in today's conditions where most workers, citizens, every day, are magical about how to survive from month to month, these checks and all the cards and all those benefits that I've said would certainly mean that they settle all the monthly obligations they have. A worker who is employed for a certain time, unfortunately suffers from a contract to a contract that will receive a certain amount of time, and is even subject to some employers, unfortunately, and with various humiliations, abuses by employers of that worker, because normally everything depends on it, and even on his behaviour whether he will receive this contract of work and whether it will extend it to a certain time or not. That's why unions are right. And they have to sit at the desk with employers as soon as possible, and in the interest of this particular group of workers, means that these workers, for a certain time, have to sit back at the desk with employers and seriously move on and open negotiations on how to end that part of the employers who are just misusing that labour law at a certain time, and thus the work has turned into a rule for a certain time rather than an exception. When such a dialogue begins, I would then call on these all interested associations, stakeholders who also made their own proposals, amendments, I don't know what to do to change some of their interesting issues to sit together with these two social partners and try and put their proposals in place as far as possible to amend the Labour Act. Finally, I will also point out that European labour legislation is more encouraging social dialogue and negotiations through collective agreements than it means to negotiate more favourable rights under the law, meaning the law effectively prescribes a minimum level of law and it is precisely the purpose of encouraging social partners to come to a more favourable right for workers. I believe that trade unions and employers in good faith will make every effort through quality negotiations, agreements to come to a solution that will satisfy workers and normally do no harm to the employer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43604	We have one correction to an incorrect quote and one replica. First, the correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43605	Thank you very much. It is incorrect to say that the reduced rights of women are related to night work under the European Union Directive. I would like to remind here that the European Union directives harmonising this law constitute a minimum of rights. Above that, Europe will not be considered if it goes that the laws are not harmonised. And there is another recommendation from the European Union, or the Commission, and it is about this way, that national legislations that comply with European legislation are inadmissible if they reduce labour rights to Directives of the European Union. It would be good, therefore, not to take certain rights for them as an alibi for the European Union directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43606	Thank you. And we have one replica of Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43607	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Kunst, you used to be a very combat union and today you're very calm in the ruling furniture and you wash your hands by provoking unions and employers to each other's talks and negotiations even though your government has instruments, so tools but also responsibility to do so if anything else comes out. Secondly, you said employers made contracts for a certain time with workers. But you see, in Croatia, the lottery which is a state institution of 117 employees or 25% is working on a certain one, and for this New Year they have a card for firing and for firing, and I guess as part of the anti-recession measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 6 hundred members of their families will be left without bread. Here's the government's contribution, not just employers to this policy of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43608	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43609	Comrade Grubisic, your replica is so impersonal that you do not understand at all what you were talking about, so I find it difficult to respond to your replica. But I'll remind myself just now that you said that for the first time you saw on television that workers were crying. You know, I've well noticed you've been doing this job and seen many years since 2000, and since 90, workers have been crying. If you haven't seen try to ask your president who's in Bosnia why the other workers were crying and why other people were crying and not just about issues related to employment. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43610	And what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? The answer to the replica can't be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... But there's no answer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, you said the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43611	... Who was talking about Mr.... [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43612	You have no right to reply to a replica. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43613	I have the right to injure the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43614	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, say what.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43615	Well, that's what I picked up, so you wouldn't let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43616	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43617	According to Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Kunst talks about what he says and speaks, he gave a reply to a replica about what I didn't even talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43618	Oh, please, it's common that you, before Mr. Hrelja spoke and said the replica in this way "I complement you for not saying.". Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43619	The usual? And he may be ashamed of what he said and what he did too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43620	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's an abuse and an attempt to suit him.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43621	He hurt everything he could.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43622	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43623	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we are discussing the draft labour law, it is much more important and much more valuable to discuss first and foremost what kind of environment the labour law debate is taking place because it is not just a matter of the corrupt provisions of several hundred as a guarantee that workers' rights will be protected. In this sense and in that way speaking is the most important thing in essence that ruling people think about work, workers, and employment. Unfortunately, even those who think they speak and favor workers and workers say that the worker is the owner of the work. Such a theory is devastating and it can produce no improvement, no improvement for the worker no matter what it says in the Labour Law. If the work is considered a slave, if the worker is something that costs the employer no better for the worker and for the employment. Such a concept that led almost and capitalist the whole system and the world to the brink of collapse and the poor and the workers paid off such delusions and such a megalomania that I hear there was no progress yesterday. But we here as Croatia, which in its near past has very positive experience in the protection of employment and on the concept of employment, these issues should also be developed in this sense of protection. Therefore, whether the state is essentially in conflict with workers is a fundamental issue. How do her institutions function? Because institutional practice has shown that it is unequivocal and determined, it simply condemns the work of inefficientness and completely marginalises it. These are the biggest problems and therefore there are serious doubts, serious speculation that even those things that were positive in the law, which existed, will be protected or realised. Namely, how our country works means how much it cares about work and work. She's working at two speeds. It is at first speed when it is necessary to protect the rights of employers, especially those who often work on the other side of the law. And when it comes to protecting workers' rights, then that justice is slow and that speed is almost in place. But when it comes to the duties of that same worker who has to settle countless obligations and has not been paid, then there is no mercy, the state is at the sixth speed. And when it comes to employers' duties, then you'll see, and I'll start by saying what you can't believe, that almost every violation of the law here is sanctioned in violation of certain fines. But there's no penalty for non-payment of wages. So, gentlemen, where do you live? Mr. Minister, it's like you told the workers we don't have bread, eat cookies. Don't be Maria Antoinette right away, because we have a problem with paying wages, let alone for the achievement of other rights that are delicacies for them, they're so weak that they don't dare to ask for other rights at all because they don't get frequent or pay, and even in these difficult times, crisis times, many employers hunt in a blurry and don't pay even when they can do it uninterruptedly. In what conditions are we here and what the ruling thinks of the worker and the labor force is saying and a ban on gathering workers in the square here in front of our building, in front of the Parliament, in front of the government. For what? And the Constitutional Court has not yet found the time, the sixth year, to resolve the matter. This speaks of what the institutions think of the protection of workers. If the Constitutional Court, they don't care if a worker has the right to protest, to say something to that government, to hear it, not to be asked only when... We need to round up what kind of vote we have in mind than that a man has the right to come here and say what's holding him back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not the Constitutional Court's concern, we see, it doesn't care, it doesn't care. We were already the second or third time, in 2003 we were legalized for non-payment of salaries as a criminal offence. That's what you gentlemen have abolished. We've submitted that proposal three times from the SDP club. The government knows what's right? Now I'll read it to you. A frequent amendment to the Penal Code would lead to legal uncertainty. Legal uncertainty. And please, whose? One who does not pay his wages and who thus protects that one Mandarin oligarchy. And how long have you gentlemen been like that? In fact, if we are to discuss and do nothing to stop this one tyranny of one faceless capital, often and questionable capital that leads to the monetaryisation of human relations, to the persecution of all values, to the words of solidarity and community that were almost shameless words in our dictionary, then all this and what can be done and what is positive will not be achieved as you have initially chosen to say. Namely, the invisible hand of the market and that uninterrupted one decides who will advance, who will fail, who will live, who will die. The neoliberal ideology, which is the one that shows that the government is really standing at these starting points, which is why the rich are happy to pour to the top, and labor is left without their own ideology. But gentlemen, it is only a matter of time before this silent work is united primarily in Croatia, but also internationalised, we often talk about the globalisation of many values, primarily of goods that we see in related and large corporations that have made so many of them as the biggest and most difficult and inhuman systems in history, because no one can do anything to them, and so there is a state to regulate, to restrain them. That's why taxes are paid that a man has protection against the exploitation of every species. But no, they are poured to the top, and these are denied in a secure manner. Because as the government has chosen to say, I wouldn't want legal certainty to be disrupted. I repeat, whose legal certainty, the legal certainty of injustice. Legal certainty of injustice. So in such conditions, the actual individual worker is light years away in the values that we have declared in our many conventions and even that have been declared in this bill. In fact, if we don't really start from the beginning that work is the fundamental dimension of man, that fundamentally determines man, that it should be treated that the worker gets his righteous salary from which not only he can live but also his family and that the state is obliged to ensure and sanction the strictest. That's why, and not only have we already proposed it, and it is existing that bill, but I now repeat here that it is both criminally not only and criminally responsible for not paying the salary. We don't have that at all sanctioned here, and you have the possibility of not waiting for amendments to the Penal Code because we often see that criminal provisions are also found in some other laws, and I believe that in this very proposal for a labour law, criminal provisions can be found so as to threaten jails for those employers who don't pay the worker his earned salary. This is ultimately an injustice that literally cries out in the sky and the problem of work and payouts that is a key issue and a social and political issue, almost undeniable. In the end, it should also be said that economic well-being is no longer measured in much more developed capitalist countries than in terms of the total quantity of goods, but above all by how these collectively created funds are shared. Where we're going to get more, are we going to stop acting more in a way that companies, companies that can gain unlimited profits, and have limited responsibility. But if the state doesn't protect the workers first and his salary will become d.o.o. Company, i.e. d.b.o. society without any responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43624	Thank you. And now we have two corrections and six replicas. The first is the correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague, Anticevic, in her debate, repeated twice that this government has come to the top of the world, and for the workers, it doesn't mean anything to them. Counselor, I disagree with that and that's not true. Because today, what we're discussing here is this law that we're going to pass in this House that's the first Labour Act to talk about not reducing employment rights. It is the first law to be passed in this House in recent Croatian history. And if that's not what you said, that's when in 2003, when you just poured the worker down to the bottom of the glass, poured out, when you cut the severances from half the gross salary to one-third, when you cut the cancellation deadlines, and you cut them in half. When you've introduced work for a certain time, but without restrictions, and today we're biting each other's throats. [[Intruder Capricorn: Time.]] You're now a great advocate of just certain work on time and you've cut it down and that's correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43626	You're out of time. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Ingrid Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43627	Yes, a colleague could have reported for a replica, not a correction to an incorrect quote, because in this way she violated the Rules of Procedure's provision of an article...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43628	It's not, please. You cannot determine whether it will be a replica and it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a correction. You're the one who said that the Rules of Procedure that applied for the replica had reported the correcting of the incorrect quote not of the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43629	Oh, wait a minute. Let me know when you interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43630	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43631	Well, it's the Rules of Procedure's injury because she was correcting something I didn't say and distort. In particular, Article 209 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43632	Please! The correction of the incorrect quote was correct to others and please thank you very much. Let's go to the second correction. ... Without throwing out a bench, a respectable representative, without throwing away. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And now we have a second correction to the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43633	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Antičević, I would like to correct the allegations concerning the Constitutional Court. I don't think you as the Minister of Justice should be here, the former minister is pressuring the Constitutional Court, because we have clearly defined this trio of power. And also, we are all witnesses who want to remember...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43634	Please, Your Honor, it's not a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43635	I'll tell him now. Many disputes that workers have been fired...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43636	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43637	Correcting in part, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43638	Oh, please, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43639	I'll fix it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43640	Then you should have picked up the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43641	But I'll fix it now. Many disputes have been won by workers...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43642	You can't talk if I told you it wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much. We have to do everything. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, Your Honor, but it was more of a replica. You have to answer that. But please don't report for an institute that isn't simply correct. Let's take it in a row. The first is the replica of Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinović, you spoke about the consciousness and behaviour of tycoon, employers and entrepreneurs. Here's one to help you, and one to give you a replica. In one of Croatia's TV shows, one of the tycoon, if needed to tell him and the name is not a problem, said he pays and feeds thousands of his workers. You see how far that twisted consciousness has gone, and in fact they're gaining a profit on it. So they do. They didn't get that salary as on the lottery, as on the lot, but they did their salary for a month. And he says he pays them. So much for that consciousness and thinking of our entrepreneurs call. And secondly, you were talking about protecting the Mandarin oligarchy, so you said. It's you again. So how come this Mandarin oligarchy, so the state can't prevent either inspections or nothing, and wash its hands like Pontius Pilate from talking to trade unions and employers? But when taxes are to be extended then they are done and the ministry orders the prolonging and payment of taxes, so we have one case in Slavonski Brod where millions of taxes are not paid. Then how will the state live? What are the anti-recession measures? The tax is prolonged, so his payment to the tycoons until he goes into oblivion, and when he goes into obsolescence, nothing happens to anyone. Here's the policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43644	Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43645	I absolutely agree with the view that it should be, that it's simply radical when employers praise how much they feed their families, and all they have is a working hand. And what they have and the extra profits they have taken from the workers have been created by the workers. That's the real truth, and that's the way it's supposed to turn around and put them back in place. It's simple, and whoever's in charge is in charge of the state. Return the primate work on the primacy of goods and capital. Value, when we restore the value of workers, we restore dignity to a man, because it does not exist. Don't forgive me, you see, don't falsify history because these questions were mentioned by German Bishop Keteler in 1831, who called him the working bishop who, on the alert at this very coming time, spoke of the difficult position of the workers. Today, many are silent about it, and they are invited to speak loudly. And much louder than when it comes to medically assisted insemination. These are the moral issues of our society, everyone has to talk about this. And when you say why not protect the Mandarin oligarchy, because the government created these Mandarins and such an oligarchy. She just created them, and all that lawlessness doesn't want to sanction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43646	Thank you. I would still ask you to stick to the subject, which is the law, the Proposal for a Labour Act, so I ask you to stick to the subject through both replicas and through fundamental discussions. We have another replica, and that's Dear Zgrebec's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43647	Comrade Antičević Marinović, you were talking about the environment in which we are passing this law. The law is passed as was introduced in order to comply with European legislation. But even so far, the Labour Act should be based on our Constitution. He says everyone has the right to work and freedom of work, says that every employee has the right to earn money that can provide themselves and family with a free and decent life. There's talk of work vacations. All of this is prescribed by our Constitution. However, the situation when you talk about the environment is next. We have a low employment rate, only 44.5% of the active population, the working population is employed. For example, the European Union has projected its own plan to target this employment rate to 70%. Where are we? It is precisely because there is a great demand for work on the labour market, and there is little work being offered we have a situation where employers can blackmail workers, and the inefficientness of institutions that are supposed to oversee it actually benefits the worker from working for a small salary, that works more than the law does, in fact, on the working time for which the law protects him, so there is also unpaid work, there is abuse, pay default, and on the other hand, the state is actually most taxing its labour policy, and even that part of the labour income that is not enough for minimum living existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43648	Thank you. And now the answer is to the replica, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43649	This continues with everything that I said earlier, and you have particularly apostrophe, because these are also issues that the government could certainly take care of when it was created and if you knew what the place of work in society was, but that's why it obviously doesn't worry her. On the other hand, the safety of work in Croatia has achieved one worrying level. The Institute of Working for a certain time is exploited and misused to the extreme limits, the new manipulation legally does not guarantee any improvement, no improvement, primarily due to institutional trombones and unwillingness to be resolved at all and to deal with those who break the laws. The Croatian worker is unpunished. Many workers work on dangerous, underpaid jobs, accept longer working hours, unpaid overtime, etc., etc. They feel too weak, too threatened to even exercise their rights. But that misery of theirs, which has been shaken by other colleagues, is already the limit when the worker has nothing left to lose. Think about it, gentlemen of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43650	We have a further replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43651	Thank you. This is the right place, the best place to make it quite clear that the payout for a certain job is stealing. It's a common theft. Whoever steals that one is called a thief. Thieves who steal should be caught, penalized, and those who have been stolen damaged. Indeed, we will be hypocritical to the end, those who represent the Supreme Legislative Body in this country, who maintain the sovereignty of this people, the citizens of Croatia, if we close our eyes and by silently cross that fact. That's why I want to make it clear here it's about stealing, it's about thieves, thieves to be caught, stolen damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43652	Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43653	Not only is it stealing, it's a lot more than that. Who, tolerates, why doesn't the employer pay the worker, and when he can? Well, because he can do it. Because the state doesn't provide any protection. In 2003, in a well-known paper of the Penal Code, we had this crime of non-payment of wages. It's no longer in this bill as a violation. You'll find for everyone that the employer might possibly be responsible for something, but if he doesn't pay anyone anything. Well, it's a sin that cries out to heaven. Well, that's what the popes were talking about. That's what the encyclics are all about. It's a sin that shouts in the sky. He who does not pay the worker, has damaged him, his family. After all, that's what the state will pay for. And why would the state pay for something that this employer should pay for? If they're part of each other, then the question arises. Because those aren't hard questions to answer. When it was supposed to close down those little shops, none of them worked. Then how was the inspector enough? You have to show the will to really be thinking and having a good time. Like this, you haven't shown your will.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43654	Thank you. And now he's a replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43655	Comrade Ingrid, you are right to warn against paying 60 thousand workers' salaries, but look at how the government does not want to react to one problem which is why we even made the laws special, and that was the problem of working on Sundays, when it was claimed that the biggest problem was that workers do not get increased wages for Sundays. The Labour Act, article 86, writes on difficult working conditions, overtime, work on Sundays, holidays, and some other day that the law stipulates is not working, the worker is entitled to an increased salary. If the employer pays a single kuna for Sunday’s work more than regular work, he has satisfied the legal provision. He gave him a raise. '95. There was a provision in the Labour Act on mandatory content of collective agreements. And then it was prescribed that the collective contract must determine the height of the increased salary for work on Sundays, nights work, holidays. Article 255 of the collective agreements does not mention at all the increased salary for these conditions referred to in Article 86. And imagine that in the Law we have a provision that the owner of the company, the employer, can introduce work on Sundays, holidays, nights work only if the collective contract regulates it and only if the collective contract provides for an increase in wages. So when you claim to stimulate collective negotiations and social dialogue, then give collective agreements real meaning, as is true in Europe, to such a provision that ridicule has the right to increased wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43656	Thank you, Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43657	So, fellow Lesar, you remember that the basic problem was, that's what the workers have been pointing to all these years, there have been a number of round tables on this subject, the workers have also been suing themselves to work overtime and that their work has not been paid. The inspectors were suing you, or the state replied that there was simply no mechanism to ask if that particular worker was working that day. Which is why I ask you now that the employer has to keep his list, why that list is not there at all at work, in a certain store, in a particular store, in a particular drive that if the inspector comes, if he has mercy and comes to control which list is there. So, you made a commitment to the list but not to present it to the inspector, that the employer is obliged to always have that list that workers do at a certain time, it's the key to everything but there are no provisions at all. Therefore, nothing will improve, but many things will get worse because the conditions in which the work is being done and the work process is being maintained and what is happening in general with the world of work are becoming increasingly difficult, due to an objective situation. And then instead of increasing such controls and mechanisms of control and enforcement, you're still dropping them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43658	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Boris Kunst please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43659	Dear colleagues, Ingrid, in any case, I agree with you that non-payments should be fined in a way and that those who do not pay workers should be fined if they are to be imprisoned. However, let me remind you that payouts are not only a problem for these governments, that this problem extends for years, that somewhere in 2000 there were about 100,000 workers who worked and did not receive salaries, in 2001 about 80,000, that is one problem that stretches. I am in favour, I need to get rid of it, and it should normally end it, but normally wouldn't be good when you're already in favour of protests and demonstrations that we don't remember that exactly in the year 98 when the biggest protests and the biggest demonstrations were organized in this country that your party didn't participate in such protests, and right then we fought against such privatisations that you often characterized, and I ended up having one of the robbery characters, etc., and then I'm surprised that there wasn't so much concern and desire to come with workers who were protesting and I'm telling them the biggest protests and the biggest demonstrations that were ever held in these places, so I'd rather agree with you to stand up and fight those who don't meet their conditions than to encourage them to go to protests and strikes. Because that means we support those who continue to oppress the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43660	Reply by Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43661	She was returning to the past but the truth works and it may not have been enough, but then after 2000, the workers and their representatives first entered the Croatian Parliament and on several occasions debated the committees. I'm not saying it was enough, but it was only the beginning. The truth is, what you're saying is that this was a big problem of non-payment of salaries for all governments, right, and we just saw this problem from earlier on, and it was supposed to react, so it was just the biggest motivation, that there were those people, that there were employers whose businesses had become liquid, who were able to meet their obligations without a problem and they didn't do it, and that's why we were just offered a team and that kind of behavior, and in 2003, we introduced a criminal act for which we prescribed a prison sentence for those employers who didn't pay the workers' wages. And I can tell you there were big debates about it, of course, it caused this great approval, and already before the law came into force, you'll see later, you see by statistics, that the failure of wages to the worker at that time, so before the entry into force only because of the fact that they're going into effect, and the fear of not going to jail, the percentage of those has fallen, and it was almost the problem that has already been marginalized, so this problem needs to be sharpened even in prison by those who don't pay the workers, the others are gone, and that's the cheapest for the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43662	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Biljana Borzana, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43663	Thank you very much. So here is colleague Antičević-Marinović talking about what the government thinks of the Croatian worker, or of the employment, it clearly appeared in two days on two clear examples. Yesterday on the budget when practically there was no idea of how to protect or create jobs and prevent 50,000 people from losing their jobs in the following year, and today here is this law on working in which to take a step back, in which what was fought over 100 years ago, so those three eights, 8 hours of work, 8 hours of rest and 8 hours for some cultural or similar activities. So, this is something that unfortunately should have been an institution that cannot be changed, an institute that, if changed, is being paid overtime, this law will allow the exploitation of Croatian workers in a way that will be able to work far above 40 hours a week because the employer thinks it should. When this Law is passed, the chairman will be able to say, the Labour Act is voted on by the majority of votes, and this Croatia is another step closer to the slave system.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43664	Answer, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43665	So what you're talking about is also coming from a concept of work, the work of goods and that of dirty goods that should not be often mentioned. As long as you don't realize, gentlemen, that it's the dominant part of a man and that every man and that man only proves by work, that it's the greatest value of a man to work and that he can work, there will be no success. But for what it's worth, you colleagues have also talked about new jobs, it's finally clear to everyone, that without new industrial regional policies, there can be no new jobs, unless you think they're state services and stick which table in their own pre-election is employment. It's the employment of this government, but HDZ doesn't need anyone to do it, because it hurts everyone, even those who are already working in the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43666	Let's move on. An individual debate. Mrs Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43667	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, it has proved necessary to approach the development of the full text of the Labour Act, and the aim is to bring national labour legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, the directives governing working time, working conditions, the participation of management workers, freedom to provide services and the movement of workers. The name was also implemented in horizontal alignment with the legislation in the field of pension insurance, parental rights, human rights protection, gender equality. Here we have been listening all morning to actually different observations, but I have to say actually this proposal is the result of long-term work and during the drafting of the draft, a seminar is organized in order to tripartite alignment. However, it should be said that this proposal does not reduce any rights of workers, but the rights are, in fact, extended, or increased within its scope. There is a higher level of legal protection for workers, so a week of regular full-time work with overtime, we heard can't be longer than 48 hours, and that means two hours a week less than under the applicable law. The shortest duration of vacations from the current 18 working days to 4 weeks, and for minors for 5 weeks, definition of night work, weekly vacation and other. The law also defines comparable workers for effective supervision of equal working conditions in full and part-time. In addition, it is necessary to say that this law will also ensure greater legal certainty as the Minister himself told us in the opening letter and shorten actually judicial proceedings and there will probably be fewer proceedings. In addition, different interpretations are expected to be avoided. The Institute of Corporate Excess Workers, which has been extended to 30 days, requires consultation with the working councils, the creation of a programme for the care of extra workers, and aims to prevent and reduce the consequences of compliance with active employment measures. It is also extended to preserve the rights of workers by prohibiting the termination of the contract, for the transfer of work contracts and for cases of transfer of economic activity or only part of some economic activity. The protection of pregnant and breast-feeding women's health at work and return after the application of parental rights under a special regulation as well as the relationship between the employer and the worker with regard to the manner and procedure of the application of parental rights. But what I also have to notice from the title of the woman, that the additional quality of the possibility of announcing the application of that right, is that it is more favourable to regulate it by collective agreement, agreement with the employer and the working council or contract of work. The principle of equality between men and women with regard to employment, professional training, progress will be strengthened by this regulation. Protection of dignity and prohibition of discrimination raised at the level of fundamental rights. The removal of the workbook shall also remove administrative barriers to freedom of movement with a transitional period with the retention of the evidence force in the exercise of the right. With the possibility of also publishing virtual books. This law leaves the employment contract open for a certain period of time so that the social partners will have access to the full changes and additions of the Labour Act with regard to the work contract for a certain period of time. It is also necessary to prescribe conditions for the extension of a collective contract based on a discretionary assessment, so it will not be disrupted in this case of competition freedom, which is extremely important for small and medium-sized enterprises, when we know that with a high percentage it is very small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who participate in the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I will support the adoption of this law because it creates the possibility of social dialogue and partnership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43668	Thank you. Madam representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43669	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about this extremely important issue that we have on the agenda today, of course we have to consider the things that bother workers in Croatia the most today. I would say that today in Croatia it is a privilege to work, given that the unemployment rate is about 16, 17%, that over the past year 52 thousand new people who have applied to the labour market are not working. To be expected to be another 50 grand next year. And in such a situation where, as I said, it is a privilege to work, normally that the law must protect workers as much as possible and that these standards must be as high as possible in order to raise the safety of workers, workers and our citizens to a higher level. What comes into my eyes is three fundamental problems. The first problem is that all our workers today in Croatia are struggling, and that is work for a certain time. And I think the three-year limit for working on a certain time is too high and needs to be reduced. Although the positive shift is that now it is no longer possible to hire people in different jobs at the same employer’s place of employment and thus to extend the work at a certain time. I think that shift in the law is good, but it's still too much time for a man to hold on to for a certain time. I don't see what would be legal uncertainty if he realized after a year or two whether he needed that worker or not. On the other hand, of course, if the employer in these times of crisis goes bad, he can always, in accordance with the law, reduce the volume of work and take care of the workers in the way the law predicted. Of course, what we have today is a specific feature in Croatia, which is that in the Croatian Parliament the law defends the interested party. Until yesterday, the economy minister participated in talks and negotiations as an employer. So, Croatia is unique in the world that a law fundamentally affecting the fundamental rights of every Croatian citizen defends an interested party that I directly in conflict of interest as an employer or as a representative of employers and that in this way we have one doubt or one situation in which we can assume that certain things that unions would like not to be included in the law. And that's not definitely good, no matter what we find ourselves in that situation by leaving the economy ministry in the previous term. The other thing is the same for working for a certain time not so directly but by engaging the agency for the temporary performance of the job and by defining their status in the law is definitely opening up a grey zone in the employment of Croatian workers and this is a de facto possibility or the right of the employer to hire almost all types of work through the agency for temporary employment of workers in his company. And unfortunately there is no protection of workers related to whether after a year that agency will no longer be needed or the worker will be out of a job. Here's an example. Many companies have emerged over the past years that employ cleaners, cleaners and other technical nature jobs which then these people in some way I would say exploit or not give them the opportunity to work on a permanent working relationship because after a year you can hire an agency with such a worker not perhaps the same place but you can find someplace else that can be technically called either way. So I don't see that legal certainty, and I don't think that part of the law is regulated enough, or that it opens up a gray zone where workers won't be protected enough. Another thing that concerns me particularly in the law is that the law is not sufficiently updated in the sense that workers participate in as many things as they care about within the company. So workers must be partners within the working council to trade unions and employers. Of course not now in countless things, but these fundamental ones concerning workers such as vacations, participation in information must be better worked out in the law and must be through the working council and even sometimes limit the employer's decision-making. Working hours that are so flexiblely regulated I don't think they're regulated anywhere in Europe like this. De facto you in 40 hours a week on average for four months can put one worker in a position to work 20 hours a week and then, by law, workers can work 60, 70 hours a week over certain months. I think it's definitely not good for the workers, and I think it's going to stimulate a lot of problems that aren't conscious yet. I'm also not satisfied that some standards that have been in law so far are changing. First of all, I mean the overtime of pregnant women and women with little children. I think it was a good standard that defined that they couldn't work overtime. Of course, with this flexible working time, the story of overtime loses its meaning. It is a pity that such an important law, despite some provisions being brought into line with the European Union, is brought without consensus with the trade unions, to bring into the atmosphere that unions are even prevented from publicly expressing their opinion either before this Parliament or near this House, or that their representatives are consulted. And on some committees, I heard there were problems about whether or not I could attend. So when we pass one of these laws regarding fundamental human rights, I think the union must have a much greater presence than it did in our case. I hope that what I have said to the interested party means that employers defend the law before the government through the role of economy minister will not affect that some amendments proposed by the SDP are not accepted because we believe that these few dozen amendments proposed by the SDP can significantly improve this law. And that is why I would ask the minister here, not here, no matter what the employer's representative takes into account these proposals made by the SDP, which significantly improve the law in terms of the protection of workers. And as I said today in Croatia, gentlemen, it is a privilege to work and because of this situation, we need to further protect the workers and not allow them to do certain things that should definitely not be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43670	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Maras said Mr. Minister is in conflict of interest as he comes from the employers' association. Well, everyone here has come from somewhere but he is now coming from the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and representing this law. And we're all interested by a dear colleague for the rights of workers, there's no one here who's not interested in making the worker better, being as many jobs as possible and as many employees as possible. But if we're principled it was supposed to be principled in 2000 to 2003 when a large number was also staying, so I, as a doctor, remember that a work obligation was imposed on doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43672	Thank you. We also have four replicas. First respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I respect that. First it means Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43673	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maras, you were talking about how today is actually, as you said, a privilege of working and being busy and getting paid. We've really come into a situation like that. Every day, therefore, over 500 people lose their jobs, lose their income, and today it has become of great value to have a job and get paid for it. I would like to say to this occasion that people are really hard to fight for what they've earned. My colleague Ingrid here spoke of the fact that unfortunately there is not a single criminal provision in this law that says that the employer will carry out the consequences unless he pays the salary. So I'll tell you here how they are, for example. carried today by employees of a large company called "Pevec" in which they haven't been paid in months. So to get how much money to survive today they quit and go to the Employment Service because at least there's a fee waiting for them to survive from that they and their family will be able to survive. So that's the only way people can get some means of survival today because unfortunately they're broke and without pay not to live. Unfortunately, yesterday in the budget of the Republic of Croatia we could see two items that were significantly reduced or completely downloaded at the position of the Employment Service. So, an active employment measure for groups that threaten social exclusion, which certainly includes one part of the Peveca workers, because in the years when they will find it difficult to get another job, had 0 kuna in it, so all the funds were removed. The question, therefore, is whether in the following year and the Employment Service will be a place where people will be able to have such social protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43674	Thank you very much. And the reply to the replica has a respected representative, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43675	Thank you very much. Comrade Opačić, it is unfortunate that today in Croatia one fundamental constitutionally guaranteed right, right to work, privilege. I said 52,000 people are out of work, another 50 grand, probably. And what you pointed out, the workers of the Peveca who fight for their salary, unfortunately, are not the only ones. Today in Croatia, 100,000 people work in blocked companies and do not receive salaries, and that is unfortunately the situation that we have in Croatia today when we talk about the Labour Act. And normally, in such a situation, we need to be particularly sensitive and we need to be careful if someone, I said, is in conflict of interest. Absolutely, if you're involved in the law-making process until a month ago as an employer negotiator and today you're a minister, so how come they're not in conflict of interest? You are in a great conflict of interest, especially when taking into account statements made by the current minister during the process. So we smoke gentlemen cold. If 200 thousand people are directly at risk now, I say 100 thousand of those who are in blocked companies and another 100,000 people who have lost their jobs in the last year or will lose in the next year, absolutely that we have to raise our voice and be particularly sensitive and demand greater rights to protect these people in a more adequate way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43676	Thank you. It is now up to the replica of respected MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43677	Here's your colleague Maras talking about the conflict of interest of the new minister who was representing employers until yesterday, and now here she is in the government minister who should primarily protect the weaker side, the workers. It's very interesting, it's a simple spin by Mrs. Kosor, who sent him to the government to send a message to the public, and now Croatia is going to start a new economic, economic offensive as it used to be said a few years ago. But here, it can happen tomorrow to the unions to invite someone from the union to the government and that's very interesting. It's devastating what you're saying. Instead of making the union movement stronger, not belittled as Mr. Minister did here when he welcomed Mr. Unionals, but he said employers work, please, so I can't come. They work, and the workers, don't you think the workers would come? And the place is, of course, union people are here today. The place here was also for employers to hear because the process of work is common, but that's not how they understand it. They will never understand that, and the government is giving them a very strong understanding of the work and the work process and the relationship of the participants in the work one such support for such a vision. It's one after all and a new bossing, because the employers' place today and employers' representatives were here, along with union representatives. But apparently they're sitting in government, so much care about work and the process of work. But the truth shall be spoken, and it shall be done, and there shall be so many worthy employers, who shall pay the laborer his wages before them, and they shall act lawfully. But what is their destiny? They're going down.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43678	Thank you. Replicate response, Your Honor, Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43679	Thank you very much. My colleague Ingrid, I didn't speak here, and I don't mention this conflict of interest because of Mr. Drinker who is a person of quality and did something in life, etc. I was saying that the problem is that this moment must not be used in some way and yet it is difficult to remove this suspicion that the relationship between employers and now the government that proposes this law through the minister institution is something stronger, or much stronger than the union. Trade unions must be at least in an equal position, if not accepted even sometimes more than would be suggested by the proposal to the initial position. So it is not good on this side, and of course, Prime Minister Kosor had to address this situation in a way that the minister would have to be someone who was potentially active among employers, but not at the expense of workers, or at the expense of the proposed Labour Act. I don't think we were in any hurry, that some items within the law could have been accepted or changed, and I hope, in the end, that through our amendments, they will be corrected and adopted by the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43680	Thank you very much. The next replica is Brankica Crljenko's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43681	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras, you have well stated that in Croatia where we live today, the working side is weaker and needed to be protected by the Labour Act, which must be a substantive and good law. Unfortunately, the government did not engage enough to pass the law. It is generally known that today in Croatia, the institute of work is being violated and abused for a certain period of time, and even 84% of the work contracts have been concluded for a certain period of time. The worker waiting for the extension of the labor contract is a worker living in fear. I note that this is mainly about young workers who are unable to form a family. The provision that a work contract can be concluded for a certain period of time in exceptional cases regularly violates, so contracts for a certain period of time should be concluded for a maximum year, not for three years, as such a provision directly destroys the Croatian society and the Croatian family.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43682	Thank you. And a reply to the replica by Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43683	Thank you very much. Mrs. Crljenko is not a problem just a contract for a certain time although you pointed out the big problem is that 84% of all contracts are related to contracts for a certain time. But an even bigger problem is the failure of the inspectorates and many contracts that have been concluded for jobs that are needed, and these are contracts for work unfortunately we have also witnessed in state institutions that many are working on a work contract in places where work contracts should be concluded. And why do they work in those places? The fact that there are no more employees in this way does not require competitions, etc. But in the end, it all goes to the expense of the workers. I would say tens of thousands of jobs that we still have on top of this administration within state institutions. And we all know that, and even inside this high house, there are people on work contracts, and there could be jobs for them, because there's a need for them. So we have to go gentlemen when it comes to the protection of workers first from the state, and then we have to apply all the rights and rules to other institutions and other companies and legal persons. Unfortunately, sometimes the government, or government and its institutions, have misbehaved because they employ people where they could be employed for full - time work very often.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43684	Thank you very much. The last replica of this exhibition, Honored Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43685	Thank you. I don't think this debate can pass without mentioning the anxiety that has prevailed over the fate of workers in Croatian trafficking and Croatian shipbuilding in general. The former Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Polancec, signed that if the second round of privatisation is failed, and that's how things are sought there will probably be bankruptcy. My question is whether we are aware of what it means if there is bankruptcy in Croatian shipyards, does this mean that workers will have to do it and the excellent workers who make one of the best ships in the world, and the ship is the most important product in me and the most important product. Will these workers again pay the price and be delivered to the account of the incompetent government that brought them into this situation?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43686	Thank you. We'll hear a reply to the replica, Agent Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43687	Mr. Jurevic, in your doubt, unfortunately lies a good part of the answer. They will pay the price of people who will lose their jobs, and I would not only say in shipyards, unfortunately, unless we make sure there is a perspective for Croatian shipbuilding, and we should, because it is an industry which is the Croatian traditional industry and which binds many cooperatives to itself. About 50,000 jobs are tied to Croatian shipbuilding. If Croatia can afford to lose those jobs, I don't think so. But the fact is, Mr. Jurovic, that many questionnaires are related to shipbuilding and few answers. Unfortunately, we are not sure that this government will succeed in the privatisation process of shipbuilding in a successful way, and this is only to preserve jobs in shipyards and in co-operatives working with these shipyards.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43688	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. It's up to the esteemed representative Boris Shprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I will try in my discussion as I do not repeat the discussions of former predecessors, especially those parts in which I agree. That is why I will first talk about the environment in which Croatia is located at a time when we agree to work legislation with EU legislation, and then I will say something a little closer about some of the general institutes that are proposed by this law. But quite specifically and clearly I will talk about when we will discuss the amendments, when amendments to this law are decided. Real capitalism in Central and Eastern Europe doesn't exactly have a human face even though it's imported from the Western world. Socio-economic and political development in our environment and with us, it was almost one-way. It was not led by domestic factors but by external factors. The domestic factors failed to resist external pressures that were huge. All Eastern and Central European countries have passed the first stage of democratic transition with the following consequences: poverty, increasing social inequality, reducing living standards, increased unemployment. Over a decade, a broad gap was created between the lowest and highest category of income from one to three to one versus ten. The second stage of democratic transition in Eastern and Central Europe is just in action, as their countries are already members of the European Union, but now with positive consequences. The standard of living for their citizens is increasing, social inequality is decreasing, unemployment is decreasing. Of course, except for this year, which was a global crisis, but they're already mending, and they have a tendency they've had before. The transition strategy is the least prepared in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Democracy and market orientation have had some success in Croatia, but it is still a long way before the standard of living recovers and we come closer to the European Union standard. Croatia is still in a phase of wild capitalism, capitalism in which the only goal is profit and rapid wealth and does not worry about the disbursement of broad social layers. Such a transition should be interrupted. The SDP requirement is a clear, fair pay for fair work. The SDP believes that the biggest violation of workers' rights is unemployment, so the state needs to ensure the safety of work for the worker. This is possible by economic development and new jobs. The safety of workers can guarantee labour inspection, but independent and efficient. Justice, but independent and efficient. And union support and union struggle. The security of workers can be achieved through the establishment of specialised court workers, the creation of institutions for the peaceful resolution of labour disputes and arbitration, the abolition of discrimination on the labour market, the strengthening of action and departures of labour inspectors and the provision of free legal assistance to workers. Because we have the Law on Free Legal Assistance, but the law is primarily based on free legal aid to a wide circle of dissuaded citizens, but especially workers. A particular problem is working co-decision. In Croatia, in which 30 years of working self-management has created significant comparative advantages for Croatian companies, compared to companies... Property behind the iron curtain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of taking advantage of the commitment of workers to companies, which was the strongest in Croatia at the beginning of the transition, there was a rough empowerment of workers in the way that nationalisation was carried out and property was practically, and property was practically donated to those closest to the ruling ones. The fact that we did not turn social property into the ownership of workers was due to the fact that today we have a double standard lower than Slovenians. We are not in the European Union, they are. The Slovenians took advantage of the comparative advantages, we ruined them. The Czechs also did it and they're a real lesson, because they were behind the iron curtain, and we weren't. Workers' shareholders, they today are not represented in work and business, but have strong social cohesion in functioning as a former country of socialism, and now advanced countries of capitalism. The European Union's labour and employment strategy is based on three objectives: first full employment, second labour productivity and third social cohesion. Croatia is sinking into increasing unemployment and is far from full-time. In recent times, instead of flexibility, the concept of flexicurity has been used to reconcile two incompatible concepts of flexibility and security. Labour flexibility implies a dynamic situation that adapts workers to market conditions and general level of competitiveness, and safety implies a stable state of work process. Labour flexibility is not considered to be a lack, but provided that state support is provided in employment measures through the promotion of employment and subsidies, the release of part of the obligation for new employees and especially the more difficult categories of persons employed, especially older and disabled persons. When it comes to the second fundamental objective of the European Union, which is labour productivity, we know that Croatia is at a low level, but it cannot increase the conditions of a low unemployment rate, a huge external debt, alarming internal indifference, a large deficit of trade in goods with abroad, budget deficits, social threats, inefficient and expensive public administrations and slow justice. All these barriers must be removed with sound state policy based on a designed development strategy, which is unfortunately not available in Croatia. As for the third fundamental objective, which is social cohesion, I wonder when and how it will be achieved in Croatia, where the relationship between labour and capital is increasingly tightened, in which capital is increasingly more powerful than those who rent their work to the employer, and in which the HDZ Government is definitely protecting large capital. In the end, one message. Only those countries that respected work and working values succeeded. I hope Croatia will get the strength to go that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43690	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. First respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43691	Comrade Šprem, which you specifically apostrophe that almost the most difficult position of employment has in these transition countries, and it is devastating that it is in our country as well, even in the nearest environment. Several years ago, the International Labour Organization held in its Vienna Congress, where it claimed, these are messages from there, that nowhere like in Croatia, a worker is forced to work so much for so little rights. The concept that the government persistently pushes, abandoned by developed capitalist countries, against liberal economist David Richard, has already given up. Everyone stood up to it. So it's somewhere at the end of the 18th century, and it's the ideal starting point of logic of our government. Namely, one who tolerates non-payment of wages as a fundamental right is not only against workers. It's against the family. You gentlemen are against the Croatian family, because you did not protect the man, you did not foresee as a non-payment violation. Because no matter what you say, actions say more than any words or any spin. And one more thing. Pope Paul VI, not that you say so, was such a company, but everyone protected their workers. In the early 60 ’ s, he claimed that there was no exclusion, these are the words of Pope Paul VI, nor the possibility of using force when there was a violation of fundamental rights and on extremely difficult occasions. You're responsible for everything that's going to happen. This is high time to get serious, establish a more economically fair relationship, and make sure the worker gets what he deserves, and that's a minimum.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43692	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Shrem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43693	I fully agree with Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic's allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43694	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected MPs of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43695	Thank you very much. Well, here I am, and my colleague, Smrem, has offered me to rephrase to him because of what he mentioned about honest work, an honest salary. We're miles away from that concept. Unfortunately, in Croatia today, it is not only the unemployed who are at risk, but also the Croatian workers are in great danger in a way that in Croatia they can already earn a saying that works is afraid of hunger.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43696	Thank you very much. There's a replica of the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43697	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He spoke of security in a broader context of work. I think it should be emphasized in fact that the worker is safest when he is sure that his legal rights will be respected. And so this law that is now in force, and this new one, whatever the provisions, they can't be as bad as the practice can be that such provisions don't apply either. In 2006, the SDP conducted a survey among workers, polling how much their rights are guaranteed in the then applicable Labour Act, and we came to the conclusion that the most vulnerable workers in small companies are up to 20 employees and where the union is not organised. This way, of course, calls on trade unions not to forget those workers, because all those stories we hear on TV are heard from big systems when they come to the end, so what happens now with Peveco, we hear such fates when things end, and in small companies, workers who are not respected by the labour law don't hear their voice because they're not a big voting machine. They're left to themselves, the state doesn't protect them, the inspection doesn't protect them, and the only thing left for them is the beans for May 1st to eat because no other country's rights, inspections, the ministry doesn't need them, they're left to their employers under the threat of firing because they're easy to get another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43698	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43699	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What I wanted to stress about is the fact that Mr. Bauk spoke about, and that is that despite this concept of the law we disagree with, the SDP today has come before you to submit a number of amendments in an effort to correct the legal text, at least as far as possible at this stage of work, if we look at things unfortunately we have on the other hand to the government that proposes what I propose, so I answer to Mr. Bauk that among the amendments there is also a number of amendments concerning working co-operation and union roles in this, and we will try to strengthen the role of the union through these amendments of working co-decision in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43700	Thank you very much. The last replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43701	You mentioned, among other things, that at least that is how I realized that the basic task of every serious government and every responsible government is to provide their citizens with that general security, security against crime, but of course it is safe to work in a way that works of which is a constitutional category and constitutional law can be earned and that work can be lived. So far, safety at work is such that we have 80% or slightly more work for a certain time. How much security this gives to the worker or family of that worker so that he can borrow, that he can live normally I leave this government to think about and sort of determine. But you see the reasoning we heard in the opening statement from the Minister of Economy who said that this Law is for the benefit of workers and for the benefit of workers' rights and for the benefit of work, so I'm surprised that the unions did not support this Law, I'm simply surprised that the union leaders and unions representing workers did not recognise that it was good and that it was in favour of work and for the benefit of workers. I don't know what they read or what law they read when they didn't recognize it was so good. Obviously, in this case, this law went to the capitalist side, not to the worker side. And the government washes their hands, they say the government won't intervene to mitigate the lack of understanding of unions that don't understand how well they're doing so they said we're washing hands we're waiting for the partners to agree. The capitalist and the worker need to make a deal. You know what it looks like to give a hungry lion's capitalist to guard the gazelle, and the government as a hunter says we'll guard the gazelle. Obviously, the hungry lion will overcome that gazelle so that the capitalist and worker will not agree without the participation of the third partner, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia who must thus demonstrate its responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43702	Thank you very much. More response to the replica, MP Boris Shprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43703	Thank you very much, Mr. Denona. I can answer your questions with the following facts. When we were a few months ago it seems to me that in the 5th month we submitted the procedure to the Croatian Parliament a proposal to amend the Penal Code, then in the Republic of Croatia it was registered not to receive the salary of 52,000 people but works. In the meantime, as far as I was able to find out today, this figure is about 85 thousand but the Croatian Parliament has not yet put on the agenda of this Law, but we suggest the following, if an employer does not pay the worker in due time for his salary will be fined for at least 6 months, there is no other way to pay the wages for the work that has been determined. Likewise, if the employer does not return the employee's workbook after termination of a working relationship, he will be sentenced by a prison of up to six months, or at least six months, and a third if the employer does not return to the work of the worker, and that is due after a final court ruling, he will be punished by a prison of 6 months to 3 years. Where's the rule of law?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43704	Thank you very much. We continue with individual debates, in turn the respected representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43705	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The labour law that is before us today is primarily passed because of the full harmonisation of the labour legislation of Croatia with the directives of the European Union. Most of the legal text was created as a result of the good cooperation of the social partners i.e. Unions and employers. Of course, in addition to the negotiations and negotiations between the social partners, some of the interesting issues are not agreed and these are the working arrangements for a certain time, which was the most talked about today in this assembly, the rules on work and the third question is the addition of a pension that there is no dispute between the social partners to settle this social issue by the Labour Act. It is important to stress that the social partners will continue to co-operate to agree on open issues that are now subject to the dispute. I believe that this agreement will be reached in order to give the Labour Act a final form of satisfaction for both sides. It is important here to stress that this is the first Labour Act to be passed in the Croatian Parliament without making it worse for workers or employers, i.e. There are no reductions in existing rights which so far has not been a practice in any modification or addition of the Labour Act. Adjustments to our labour legislation with the acquiss of the European Union encourage a more significant role of the union in negotiations with employers on labour and social rights. And it's important. This is something new that brings us to bring our legislation into line with European legislation. The newspaper that brings us this Labour Act is a reduction of overtime from the current 10 hours per week to 8 hours and is limited to 180 hours per worker per year. Redistributed working hours are reduced from the current 52 hours to 48 hours per week. It can do so longer with the consent of workers and only if it is determined by collective agreement. But only until 56 hours a week. Now we have 60 hours of time. The quality is defined by the night worker as well as his rights, especially the right to a medical examination. It is more favourable for workers to be defined and shifted. A redefined weekly vacation institute that is now 24 hours uninterrupted, and according to the new Labour Act will be 36 hours continuous week vacation. The annual workers' vacation has been extended from the current 18 working days to the shortest 4 weeks. While underage workers and workers are exposed to increased dangers, the shortest duration of their vacation will last for 5 weeks. Untapped annual leave where the employer is no longer transferred to another employer, but a working fee is paid at the rate of salary compensation according to the number of days of unused vacations. It shall be prohibited to cumulate full-time contracts of 40 hours a week for part-time workers. More precisely, the obligations of the agency for temporary employment of workers are regulated compared to the workers themselves and the service users themselves. And I can finally say that this is a good law, and through collective bargaining, even more favourable workers' rights can be achieved. And I also hope that given that a deadline has been set for further negotiation of stakeholders i.e. The employers and unions, that they will reach an agreement, but I hope for the benefit of the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43706	Thank you very much. Now we're going in lines, there's seven of them. First of all, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43707	Thank you very much. You said in your debate that this law is positive, because by the way, some workers' rights are not abolished, which is not true. In my debate, I said, let's say that now it's possible for women, pregnant women, to work overtime. It is now possible that women work overtime that have children up to three years old. So there are still some things that are going to harm the current standards that we have in the Labour Act, and they're shrinking. Second thing, you said you'd continue the social partners story after this law was passed. Well, that's the main problem, it wasn't a quality story before the law was passed. The unions were pushed aside. That is also what you as a HDZ representative should not just support the law. Because unions will now have the adoption of this law and normally that they will continue dialogue. Well, that's the point of getting them together and working, trying to try to raise workers' standards to a higher level. But the problem is that so far there has been no quality debate with them, or their proposals are not included in this bill. And I invite you to accept the amendments to the SDP that raise that standard and protect workers to a higher level and you will do well for Croatian workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43708	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šolić has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. But fellow Maras, look, you weren't now the first term in the Parliament, were you? I remember very well when the Labour Act was passed in 2003. At the time when the law was passed, many companies in Croatia were sent to bankruptcy. What happened? Thousands and thousands of workers ended up on the road. At the same time, it is brought to the Croatian Parliament when your political option was in power to amend the Labour Act. And how did you bring those changes? So you got those people out of work. You've cut their severances, you've cut their notice, you've simply restricted them and introduced them for a certain period of time. And what happened here? So today we have certain workers who have unlimited work, so there is no time limit until they can go to that particular working time. So you've forgotten all about it. And this very law that today is ahead of us is the condition that this doesn't happen any further. And it couldn't have happened without amending the law, it was simply necessary to reject your law that you passed in 2003 and we went with a new law, so that all these insubordinations for workers would be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43710	Thank you very much. The next replica, a respected representative, Krunoslav Markovanovic, has it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43711	Well, here's a colleague I just wanted to remind you that perhaps in the list, there was still a need to say that in the 2003 bankruptcy in 2002, there was a little change in order, so the workers came to the last place when they were to be paid out of bankruptcy. So many of them are left without what they would get in a normal situation. But, well, these are today's midwives on my right who, say, have a headline in the paper in the morning that 70,000 workers should be kicked out of work, and this afternoon we defend them. But that's right, there's not much help there. In fact, the law is a compromise this, not good enough for a worker but not good enough for employers. But if he's gonna keep his jobs, that's good. But in any case, fighting for workers' rights as hard as possible. Well, at least tomorrow's and the day after tomorrow's influence in the European Union, which also doesn't protect much more workers than we do, except it has much more quality unions that can protect workers and protect and provide financial security.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43712	Thank you very much. Next replica, Agent Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43713	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coliica Šolić well recognized that this is the first law that does not reduce workers' rights as opposed to the 2003 law. Workers remember also the bankruptcy and layoffs they received and remember very well the police, schooling, health care, the treatment they had during that single term as the government acted with the SDP. It has not been repeated and I believe that such activities in Croatia will stop and that such a rule as it was during the SDP will not be repeated soon. The workers have not forgotten this and show it by their vote in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43714	Thank you. ... I didn't really see the tile. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[Speakers speaking out loud, doesn't understand.]] Next time only with a grain plate answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43715	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Apparently they're afraid that again... and what to do. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] Apparently that's why they're afraid to hear. I'm going to remind my colleague, Huška, of another indignity that then happened when... Maras shut down because it's not yours, behave in the Assembly properly. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] Let's remember... The coalition government also signed collective agreements when it failed to comply with collective agreements, when the government that came and took responsibility in the Republic of Croatia continued in 2004. ... [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] pay off the damaged workers. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] You can lift as much as you want, but... [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43716	Thank you very much. Replica has a respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43717	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Šolić, you have said that this law is actually in line with what is in the European Union, but I would remind you here of a letter that Mr. Secretary-General of the European Union has also directed to the President of the Croatian Parliament and to the Assembly MPs, so I quote: "You are in a more fair and fairer position to regulate the Croatian labour market, prevent the exploitation of workers and deregulation of work." It further states: "By introducing work for more than 48 hours, Croatia will be one of the few European Union states that allows such a possibility by law.". You also said that you and other colleagues on your part that this law did not touch the rights acquired, in fact that they remained intact. However, you are also a woman and you know that women are otherwise subject to the labour market or that they are discriminated against and this law requires doctors to explain in writing why a pregnant woman cannot work at night. Isn't it sad that this kind of government, is this population policy that this government does not simply ban the night labor of pregnant women and overtime and does not ask the doctor for an explanation and a written explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43718	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43719	My colleague, I will tell you personally I also disagree with that that pregnant women work nightly work and that they must first if I cannot work to bring confirmation from a doctor... I'm asking you, Vice President, to make order on this left. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43720	Please, this disfellowshipping thing really doesn't serve anything. And that's why I'm asking you not to do it anymore. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43721	We are here together in agreement, and I disagree, but I believe that in the second part of the negotiations between employers and trade unions this issue will be settled. That question will be settled, I'm deeply hoping. And what you said we were being warned by the European Union. Yeah, and that's what this law says. You see, work hours have been redistributed. The current 52 hours are reduced to 48 hours. And that's what you asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43722	Thank you very much. Replicu has a respected representative, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43723	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. It does not seem to you, Mrs. Solic, if you have read "Germinal" Emile Zola, that this law is very similar to the laws of that time, which are written in this novel by Emile Zone French writer. And besides, you were talking about overtime. And it is not clear to me that you have not read paragraph 3 in this article 45, which speaks of irregularities in this overtime, and says that these irregularities must be notified to the labour inspector. Now I'm asking you who has to tell you if it's even defined by this law or this article. Will the workers, let me read you a text message that says so from Slavonski Brod, from the Fridge Slavonski Brod in which workers, so Todorovic's coolant, in which workers work overtime and must not notify any inspection or anyone because they will be fired now before the holiday, before Christmas. It's that one of your "guarantee" or the crime of the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43724	Thank you very much. The next one is the respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43725	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Well, obviously, Coli Solic, that you encouraged this part of the reduction of labour rights and that in that part we are all agreed and that we are all interested in not being reduced and will not be except in that part of what the president of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership said and you mentioned, you and your colleague Bonačić spoke about the protection of pregnant women. Of course, I don't want to go back to history about these rights, but I have to remember again because I'm a doctor when doctors are reduced to the right when they're given a job obligation. Let's say so much of that on the way. But you were also affirmatively saying that special rights are given in this section regarding medical examinations, but also in accordance with Article 33, which says on the protection of health at work, work injuries and occupational illnesses, so either way, that part will improve, that part and reduce the sick and other things. So you should also look at the positives anyway. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43726	Thank you very much. The last line has a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43727	Dear colleague Šolić, I must oppose your stated claim that this law is adopted primarily because of compliance with the acquis of the European Union. Such an important law for the world of work, for our workers, for our employers, but also for pensioners cannot be passed just because of compliance with the acquis. In doing so, we amnesty of the social partners for nelados, demeaning one of the most important institutes in the world of work, and it is the social partnership that is the property of the European Union. And secondly, we can reduce the rights of workers by prescribing and not prescribing. For example. If we prescribe the obligation of a written labour contract, then there is a contagion that brings more and more workers exposed to non-payment of work done.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43728	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. It's up to the Honorable Representative, Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43729	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before the debate on the essence of the bill, I would ask all colleagues and colleagues who use the Syntagma labour market to avoid it because it is dehumanized, unfair to man, creative work and incorrect in its essence. Of course I'm not going to create a new one, but I'm sure it's better to talk about the labour market than the labour market. It's an offensive syntagma and it tells us how we treat a worker. It should be said at the beginning, and I think we will agree, that work is the only constant and effective pleasure a man wants throughout his lifetime. And before assessing ours, there's something else about the government's draft labour law that needs to be added in principle. Therefore, the workplace, the permanent job, is not only important for the existence of workers and their families, it is even more important for the dignity and credibility of man because it shows his creativity and ability in this relationship. Of course, the government has its problems and multiples when preparing the Labour Law. First, it prepares it under quite unfavourable conditions and these governments and states and workers. The environment that the government must take care to boost investment in Croatia and bring investors into the country has prompted development to force it to be on the side of capital. Let us not forget that this country owes 41 or 42 billion euros and that there are now about 300 thousand workers. Of course, under these circumstances and under the circumstances of globalisation when capital is protected in itself as powerful but also protected by large and strong states that protecting workers' rights in the Republic of Croatia without an active and very important role of the state is not possible. If it is added that in this process of adopting the Law on Working with the bill, workers' representatives, trade unions disagreed, then this is all about this bill. So despite the disagreements of the representatives of the workers, the union, the government has decided to send the law into the procedure and its adoption. Such a drastic recognition that it stands on the side of capital, entrepreneurs, simply delegates this law to be passed in this form. All those who claim that the government has ensured the protection of workers' rights must at least look into the fact that it has been missing for several months, the government has agreed to amend the Law on the Work of Trade and for reasons of its inability to protect the workers who worked in trade. If added, and indeed it is true that the SDP has already asked several times to protect workers' rights, at least as many rights as we set out in the law, so as far as we think it is possible to do so in the legal framework at this time, to ensure that state instruments can be realised. In other words, to ensure supervision, inspection and court. Since we have courts like this and burdened as they are burdened, inefficient, there is no protection of workers' rights or work as a whole unless specialised courts for workers' rights and labour rights are organised, or at least councils in existing courts. We cannot say that we are a social state if we are asking in this House to abolish the law because we are unable to implement it in action. About the institutes that are set out in this bill, I will look back at two things. First of all, workers are in no way guaranteed by law or in essence to participate in the creation, business policy of a business subject, the creation of development and thus the protection of their interests. True, workers are provided in a certain way to participate in the crisis situations of the company or to strike or to initiate the liquidation or bankruptcy procedure. But it's a fire strike where workers are sent, but there's no policy in the Labour Act of this country. About working for a certain time, there's already been a lot said. But it's principled that working for a certain time must only be for the reasons of the job. If it's not for a job that would be another justifiable reason to work for a certain time. If jobs themselves do not dictate such a working relationship, then there can be no other reason or time limits or anything. I should be taxing on what are the working reasons of the work process that require the establishment of a working relationship for a certain period of time. Because without a steady working relationship, it is hardly possible to talk about the dignity of workers in the workplace. But those who say that this law is on the side of workers should understand all the reality of Articles 46 and 47 of this law on the allocation of working time, redistribution. This is an open opportunity to say "scillation" of workers in a legitimate way. I can't be any clearer, open-minded opportunity to hack workers in a legitimate way. That hours can be done despite all the so-called. restrictions of 48 hours of working week can be redistributed, and without question we will see workers in a year of application which negative effects will be passed by this law and how we will then feel responsible and who will suffer the consequences of such a provision. In fact, it is explicitly said that there is no limit of 48 hours of maximum work when redeploying working hours within 4 months. And if we are going to analyse the processes of work especially in Croatia then the manipulation is indeed given as a whip employer. I don't think we're gonna do that. I'm convinced that we won't just point out that, because the government only emphasizes what's like a folic in favour of workers, so it says that this law retains the rights of workers acquired, and no one in any word relied on what's on the plank for the worker. But it's not just a workman's plank, it's also for all of us who are going to raise our hands and leave the employer to be able to redistribute his hours for four months without any apparent reason or consequences for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43730	Thank you very much. One correction to an incorrect quote, four replicas. First of all, the correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct Mr. Leko's misstatement when you say the government has decided to let the law go in the process with the union's disagreement. This is not true, Mr. Leko, because the social partners participated in the draft law, and during the alignment they agreed with most of the solutions offered, which became part of the substantive changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43732	Thank you very much. The first line has a respected representative, Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43733	Thank you very much. There's my colleague, Leko, it would be good if when we speak, we're first of all accurate and honest. It's not true that 300,000 is now unemployed. You can easily check this on the portal if you enter the Employment Service as many unemployed in Croatia today. As for the fact that the government sent this bill with the unions not agreeing I'll get to know you, I believe you know that but you've made it more populistly this way for maybe if it's still a television broadcast, that 15 months unions and employers are trying to negotiate some interesting issues, and that just the original agreement was between trade unions and employers that will go into the amendments to the Labour Act, that is, to the adoption of this Labour Act only in the part where labour legislation is harmonised with European acquiss. It means he won't touch any interesting questions. Unfortunately, however, interesting questions arose, and there was disagreement. Logically, if these two social partners couldn't agree, you would now want the government to cut that off and that the government is being placed on one side of the social partners. No, the government said here's another 60-day deadline, sit down, try to set up some interesting questions and we'll go with an amendment to the Labour Act, but because of the time period where we have to close chapter 19. – Social policy and employment we no longer have time to wait simply for your agreement. It's for the very truth. But since you're so provoking about the interest of workers' rights, and where you were in 2000 when the cancellation was introduced during pregnancy into the Labour Act, when the status of the mother was deleted, then in 2003 when the severance was reduced, when the cancelled deadlines were reduced, when work was introduced for a certain time. Then why didn't you stand up so hard for those rights of workers and say let's not do that, but let's protect those interests of workers. So you just know the thing is not one side, there's one side.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43734	Thank you. Time's up fast. Now the reply to the replica has respected representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43735	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kunst, look into your eyes and tell me how long you've been in power without changing the law we passed in 2003. Whether it's your responsibility or my own citizens hear it. You've been in power for six years, and by your spells, you agree with that law because you've done nothing to change it. And now you teach me a lesson why I haven't changed it or why I brought it. It doesn't make sense. Such demagogy does not pass even in a common regiment. And without the government's support in the treaty and the government's position on whose side they're going to stand, there are tripartite talks. There can't even be a deal. It's just proof that the government has settled on one side. Because if it were of interest to be on the side of the workers, she'd be involved in these arrangements and she'd go over the workers' side. And one last thing, I'll repeat, that the state cares about organising and protecting workers' rights she certainly can. And without it, there's no protection. There's no protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43736	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43737	Comrade Leko, you said that if the state did not side with workers in protecting the rights of workers, and his dignity, and in this case we see in the adoption of this law that as Pontius Pilate had washed her hands, and chose her side, it is obvious that this standing on the side of capitalists cannot, of course, be in this case that we have ultimately in that capitalism that we know a satisfied worker. Because capitalism knows a satisfied worker. Because without a satisfied worker, it's obvious that our capitalists honor the exceptions, they can't be capitalists. I can't accomplish anything if they don't have a satisfied worker. It is already clear in some other modern democracies. But in any case, this satisfied worker should have some kind of security that I was just talking about, which is first that he has a roof over his head, that he may reach the roof over his head, and be full. I'll make it simple. I don't want to talk any longer. You know who recognized that someone had to have a roof over their head and be full? I won't offend you if I look at your gray head, so you learned in some schools, the slave owner. The slave owner knew that the slave had to have a roof over his head and that he had to be fed up because his hunger couldn't work. And this law doesn't recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43738	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43739	Comrade Denon, it is not correct to the European Union and to transfer to her the responsibility that she is asking for the rights of workers, which she asks to comply with the standard of these rights, then I am quite sure that the European Union is asking every country to ensure that they are implemented. And our demand is minimally what we determine by law to ensure that a worker can be realised without great problems. It is not a European standard, it is a human standard of every country that it must implement its laws and enable them to implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43740	Thank you very much. The replica was also reported by the esteemed representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43741	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Leko, I want to actually refer to that part of your debate where you talk about the state's impotence, actually in terms of respect and the applicable Labour Act. Regardless of all the shortcomings in this Labour Act that we are discussing today, I am afraid that any law that we have passed will be implemented in the first place, given everything we have seen so far by the state in terms of protecting workers' rights. In this regard, I would refer to a subject that appeared in the daily list once a few days ago, where it is spoken as in Croatia, just as in the European Union, women are paid for their work in relation to the meaning of male colleagues in quite large numbers, means private companies, and even in some cases 50%. Although the current Labour Act today regulates that an employer must actually pay equal qualifications and pay equally for the same type of work for both male and female workers and workers, it is not really implemented in practice. And because of that, I'm asking, and now I'm asking the question, what instruments does the government actually mean to force employers in this case, and in all other cases where workers' rights are violated, that employers mean respect for the applicable law, no matter how missing it is. Without it, I'm afraid we're not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43742	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43743	Dear fellow Holly, unfortunately, it's not the only Labour Act that this country doesn't implement, but it does. If we could go into inspection and figure out how much tax is unpaid, and we could see how the state actually milks only where it can, where it will. And when it comes to the Labour Act, unfortunately the unions defend the law in 2003 and its legal framework, and they claim that it has failed to implement it in 5 years, and that is the problem, not its legal framework. That's another proof that we have a state that has two arches, two criteria. And when that's the case, it's certainly about this social moment, and it's shown through this bill of the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43744	Thank you. We're moving on with the individual. And I'm sorry, it says here another replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43745	Thank you very much. Comrade Leko, you have noticed one of the greatest injustices of this law, which is that workers will practically not be able to plan working hours at all, because these 4 months, they are not specific to the 4 months. It stretches very easily throughout the year, because it's average. You know what the average is? In 4 months, you can work this much for the first 3 months, and 4 months more, then 4 months less, so that workers will have undefined, i.e. slippery working hours that they will not be able to plan how many months each month they will work at all. Not four months, but the whole process of work. It means a whole year or so they'll be employed by a certain employer. So from that position, it's clear that it's possible to hack workers, clearly that there are a lot of Mobbings possible, and it's clear that it's possible that people won't be able to plan their lives at all. They will have to submit to the full employer, the job he is doing. Because how are you going to plan things if it's just not possible when you're taking an average of what you've been doing, one month you'll be able to work 200, 20, 30, 50 hours, and then the next month double. So that one uncertainty is absolutely the greatest injustice of this law. And I say it's not about four months, it's about an average that can extend to the whole process of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43746	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43747	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you see very well that every man's greatest insignificance is a particular worker's indetermination of rights. The uncertainty of the right puts it in the uncertainty and uncertainty of its life rhythm, but subdues it to the wills and needs of employers. That's why I emphasized it as the biggest problem of this Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43748	Thank you. And now we can move on, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43749	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with members of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I dare say immediately at the beginning of my presentation that this law is the result of poor social dialogue in Croatia whether it is a bipartite or tripartite social dialogue and a lack of collective bargaining system. I dare to argue, too, we don't have representative unions, we don't have representative employers and we don't have a representative government. And in all this, keep your mouth shut. Give me a proposal for a law that professors of labour law, and there are, participated in the creation of this law. Labour law professors who have done this for 20, 30 years, who have participated in negotiations, talks, agreements on the best solutions in the Labour Act. No one's there, no one's writing. Why do I dare say that? So we have a bill in the parliamentary procedure without the consent of the most important institution in the world of work, which is the Economic Social Council. One law, if we respect the principles of a developed democratic state, cannot come to a parliamentary procedure without having consent to the Economic Social Council. The second thing that this Economic Council has started to do is deal with politics, collective bargaining and everything, it's a different story, it's a story of system arrangements. I, in my union work that I've been doing for 13 years, have had the opportunity to meet 7 European social systems. And the closest one to the temperament and everything else is the Italian system. I must stress that he was a colleague of Lesar who was not present at this time in the assembly was the closest position to him because he decided in the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia to arrange a collective bargaining system modeling the Italian system and then by 95 we had a general collective contract and started working on collective contracts of activity. However, there are also certain forces in the unions, and indeed it was more appropriate for employers, to take the initiative and to start collective agreements in enterprises, so-called. House collective agreements that are the greatest evil for the collective bargaining system. What's this about? In Italy you have a law that is probably less than what we are, so it does not deal with excessive norms, you have a general collective contract, a collective contract of activity, and then collective agreements at company level. But not a single, low-ranking collective contract takes over the negotiation of the previous one. What does that mean? The company shall not negotiate what is agreed in the activity or in the general collective agreement. And it's a regulated system of collective bargaining. I have this experience and I know that at company level rights were negotiated less than they were legally or less than those in collective agreements of activity. This is inadmissible and that means these are characteristics of an unregulated system of collective bargaining. The Italian labour market is very lively, it faces the problems that we will face when we are 5 to 10 years old, these are the problems of immigrants and their employment, the provision of conditions, language and all that we are dealing with at all or almost not. That's why it's important to have what they have. They have two systems, have a system of collective bargaining and a system l`organizzazione, that means a system of negotiation, a system of planning the development of their economy and their relationship on the labour market. Therefore, it is the primary task of the Economic Social Council to plan what will happen tomorrow on the labour market, and the negotiation is left to the trade unions or is left in the finals at the level of domestic collective agreements which cannot violate what is agreed at the level of activity. So protection of workers' rights must be the obligation of all three social partners, not just one. Working legislation is directed in favour of weaker "and the favorite lab" in this case. So that's the essence of labour law. I must tell you one of my experiences. When one company from Zagreb did not pay off two months of its workers who worked at the Shipyard "Breda" in Margera, they were our workers, Croatian citizens addressed their unions, the management suspended payment to this company in Zagreb, asked for our indication why they were not paid and what we suggest we do in Croatia. We agreed that the employer from the Croatian company will pay when they pay half of the pay to the company, that they will pay the full salary or if it does not, the other half will be left to settle workers' salaries directly. So the employer Shipyard Margera was ready to hold a contract she had with our company to pay the workers who worked with them. This protects workers' rights and at one perhaps international level. There are many good amendments here that I have seen, one amendment that I particularly highlight is the amendment that Mr. Lesar has taken over is about the needs of records of work done. Without recording the work of the inspection, they can't work, they can't, they have no basis to prove that the worker is damaged. So it's a very good amendment that in any case, no matter what decision I make in this law I'm willing to support. Secondly, an amendment that I also appreciate about one of the best social products that has happened in the Republic of Croatia, which is the addition of pensions. So that's the amendment that fellow Kunst submitted during this debate. Therefore, I am ready to support this amendment because it is a proven social product that has been existent in Croatia for 18 years to the satisfaction of all those who have used it. This is much better than the severance that is spent in 6 months and then ultimately remains a miserable pension, i.e. a pension reduced by the missing years of internship. Furthermore, I have given personal amendments concerning work contracts for a certain period of time. And I agree with all of them that there is no need for excessive normativeism, that it should be openly said that it is created exclusively for certain situations and that it should be limited to the situation, not to the contracts. If a contract is concluded for a specific situation that lasts more than two years in that case, only a contract may be concluded indefinitely. And secondly, I gave the amendment a written form of the labor contract. The Mandatory Relations Act recognizes other ways of making a contract, but I don't recognize that aggregate state. We cannot say that in such an important segment of human society it is possible to recognise an agreement equal to that written for example. If anyone has agreed to bathe in the order of the apple umbrella vineyard. If we're down to that level, then there's something wrong with us. Instead of going forward we're going back. So, I believe that the labor contract must be written exclusively in writing, and this is particularly related to some further articles, it seems to me to be 112, which says that the cancellation of the labour contract must be in writing. The workbook is a special problem. We now have problems because you have a doctor who works in a former military hospital, it is known that he worked 20 years as a doctor. He writes it in his work book, but his pension system gives him a coefficient of 1, because the documents are in Belgrade or in the basement of the archives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Therefore, there will be great problems I warn. And final. The law can be slightly improved by amendments but what I said at the beginning, lack of social dialogue cannot be fixed. And it would be best to refer this law to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43750	First one notice. No more live TV transmissions, so you know. And now we have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43751	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative Silvano Hrelja said that this law is bad and that experts did not participate in this law at all. That's not true, counselor. Experts and best experts participated in the drafting of this law but on both sides of the law. They also participated in this draft law and independent experts. Therefore, do not publicize falseness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43752	Thank you. And we have one replica, the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43753	So it's really not right to say that we don't have representative unions, we don't have representative employers, we don't have representative... But you and I can't say that because we're part of these unions and I don't think it would be right for them to say it, because we've made some of our contribution that they are today as they are. That's the first one. Secondly, on the Economic and Social Council, you say there's no agreement. So you know that on the Economic and Social Council decisions are made by revote, not by consensus. So it was quite clear that the decision was made by the majority of votes that supported this Labour Act and referred it to the procedure. Next, I must warn you, and I believe that you know you yourself have organized various protests when before the Labour Act or the amendment of the Labour Act is that this is the first law that does not diminish existing rights. And that's where we have to admit the fact. I agree that there might be something else that needs to be improved, etc. But these are interesting questions, that's the second phase we're talking about needs social partners to sit down. Thirdly, the European Labour Legislative, which is based on this proposal of the Labour Act, points to the social dialect, collective agreements to make this instrument more favourable than the minimum level of the Labour Act is prescribed. Well, that's the point of social partners, to negotiate, to get to a more favourable level by collective agreements. If everything is standardized by law, and you're contradictory and you're a little bit critical, then you're saying that you support it, that there should be better rights in dialogue, let's not be contradictory. Then let's support that really social dialogue achieves a higher level of law than everything is regulated by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43754	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43755	My esteemed colleague Kunst, I don't run away from my responsibilities for union work. I have more than a hundred domestic collective agreements behind me, which has few trade unions in the Republic of Croatia. But when I claim that unions are unrepresentable, then I'm going from the experience of others. Why do only three union centres negotiate in Italy? Why didn't they take thousands of unions to negotiate something? So that's one claim. We at the employers to be representative, we have too many of those who have done nothing of something and few of those who have done nothing of it. And the claim that we don't even have a representative government stands, because if it were representative then not every other day a minister would be in an affair.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43756	Let's move on with the individual debate, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43757	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The fact is that in this House we bring every day, every month countless or new laws or amendments and additions to laws, and that in fact a large part of these laws remains just written down as a certain norm and is not implemented in life. And the question is, what does it mean to be a right that is not exercised and that citizens cannot achieve? There have been speeches here that can contribute to the implementation of this law and to the protection of workers' rights, to ensure normal labour market conditions. Of course there are trade unions with their union actions, the organisation of workers who will deal with employers for their rights, but one of the big problems and what does not work, it is simply a system of control of the implementation of the Labour Law. Why do I think that the system of control is, and in some ways, one system that would make employers respect the Labour Act, why is that important? Because it seems to me that, in fact, employers who operate in some European Union countries when they come to Croatia are acting completely different. So, what they don't do in their countries of origin because they wouldn't think of doing it there because then they're facing heavy penalties and sanctions, they allow themselves to work in Croatia. Therefore, the problem is that we have not developed a good system that will make employers in Croatia respect the Labour Law, respect workers' rights. Of course, on the other hand, I think that what's called employers' ethics should be developed, I think it's one of the great responsibilities of the Association of Employers who should have worked a little bit more on certain ethics, which means that they simply have to accept that workers are not slaves, that they are not their means of obtaining capital and wealth, but simply their partners, and only so can they progress together. The most escalating example, in fact, of our state impotence, struggle, or rather insufficient will to implement the Labour Law was work on Sundays. So these two governments in this House broke their teeth on Sundays because it was a constant pressure to ban it. It was therefore banned because work could not be regulated on Sundays. If the Labour Act had been implemented, that inspections, courts, all did their job, that employers had been forced to pay the work on Sundays the way the Labour Act said, so the increased payment of fees was the question of whether employers would be worth working on Sundays. If it were good, the workers would get 30% or 40% higher pay, they'd get another week off, and I think it would be both of them. Unfortunately, this was not an example in Croatia, but workers worked on Sundays, worked on holidays and did not get paid. So the question is, what does the state do to get employers to pay for that work, then we wouldn't need the law that we've passed here on two occasions, so the Constitutional Court has suspended us. The problem is the lack of working courts. We didn't do anything to get working courts or at least departments that would just do it. And what rights we speak of when workers still lose their jobs in the 1990s, some today have not received judgment. So after 19 years, many have not received judgment and do not know whether they have lost their job in the 1990 ’ s in accordance with the law or against the law. Therefore, as long as we have such a situation to judge the judiciary with a delay of 10 or 15 years in work disputes and not within 6 months until we will not have an effective system of protection of workers' rights because there is simply no other way to make it more effective than this for the court to simply decide within a very short period of time and bring its own justice and thus protect the rights of workers. The second lever for law enforcement is the State Inspectorate. The State Inspectorate, which often complains about its working conditions in its reports, also proposes some measures. So here's the 2008 report from the State Inspectorate proposed some measures that unfortunately were not adopted again in this Labour Act. So if you're not already listening to us here in parliament, as Minister Schucker did not listen to us yesterday about the budget, I called yesterday to listen to the employer and today, Mr. Minister, please listen to the State Inspectorate. If people do field work, if they have certain problems, if they suggest some changes, I don't see any reason why it wasn't in these amendments to the Labour Act. Among other things, here is what counterpart Ingrid Anticevic was talking about about paying the salary. So they are also asking here to install certain provisions in the Labour Act for those employers who do not pay salaries to their workers who have done their job fairly. However, what happens in the courts again? The State Inspectorate has submitted certain reports, however, let's see how this ends, for example, in criminal courts. In 2008, for example, there were 13 thousand 689 applications in the field of labour relations, of which 30% went out of date. 30% went out of date and the rest of those convictions actually went to the minimum wage of employers. As far as I know in the countries of the European Union, the maximum penalty is to go to close firms. In many ways, employers are motivated to sit down and solve all problems with the working councils, so with the representatives of the workers because every trial is terribly expensive for them and is not worth it. It doesn't seem motivated. So they're motivated to solve the problem in agreement with the workers. Here, with our misdemeanor courts 30% in this section alone went out of date, everything else is basically the least possible punishment. Two thousand 124 applications were filed from the field of protection at work, 44% of which went out of date. And then we're talking to the mechanism about forcing employers to respect the rights of workers when we have 30 or 40% of the cases in the courts going out of date. Therefore, there is no sanction for the behaviour of an employer who does not respect the Labour Act and violates the rights of workers. When the contract of work is at a certain time, I would like to say that it is definitely one of the most violated institutes and has become a sort of means of blackmailing workers, it has become one subject of great uncertainty because workers who work for a certain time simply cannot plan anything in their life, I cannot provide even housing loans to solve maybe living space and a roof over their heads. So 85 of these newly concluded contracts at a certain time have been in recent years. Thus, an extremely large figure and one of the institutes with which employers had terribly manipulated and brought workers into a situation where they really did not know what was waiting for them. And that is why we are and we will insist primarily on these amendments, which would further limit some room for manipulation of employers so that the contract would finally be actually used for what it is intended for. And in the end, I'd like to say, you know, there are positive examples. For example, you have a situation, for example, I will tell a negative story from workers in a company that is in Slavonia for the sake of which the workers told me you know the working conditions are such that we are about the same as in Serbian camps. So, when workers tell you so, you can really think in what conditions they do. They don't have a break, they can't go to the emergency room, they're working with those chess clocks where they measure their norms. In summer when a hot number of them end up so that several times during the day they pass out. Indeed, a very ugly situation, no one reacts and women are forced to work there so that for that little money they get they can still feed their family. On the other hand, however, you have, for example, an example. One company in Međimurje in which the employer treats his employees as his associates and those who make profits with him invests in their knowledge. The last measure he had, for example. She's very interesting. He increased the salary of 5% to any worker who gave up smoking, who quit smoking. So, countless motivational things he introduced into his company to make his workers satisfied. Until employers realize that only a satisfied worker can be a good worker who will work for the benefit of his own company and his own future, until in fact, in Croatia will continue to talk about the Labour Act in the way we speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43758	Thank you. And now we have two replicas. First, he's the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43759	Comrade Opačić, you've well noticed that I'm going to tell us a little bit more, a Europe that's good times when we need it, and it's not good when we need it too. In fact, you said that working courts in this case are neither on the trail of this Labour Act nor are they even thinking about allowing workers to come in any way before they can come in our legal system in order to defend themselves or protect their rights. But you see, in the interpretation and the proposal of this law, it is said that this law is, of course, in line with the legal property of the European Union, that we do not have time to continue to agree on the different views of capitalists or employers as we call them and workers on the other hand, because there is a chapter to be closed and, in any case, because it requires Europe. And you see, in Europe, there are "work courts" and this legal gain that has been going on in Europe for a long time is not being able to translate into Croatian legislation because it will. Obviously, we also show how much we care about the rights and protection of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43760	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43761	Here is my colleague Denon, when you talked about harmonising with the European acquis, of course, that I think that I should do a full job of harmonising with European legislation, that Croatia's goal is to join the European Union, I would be the only one who would be much happier if we were to edit our relations in the country for ourselves. I think that only when Croatia is a well-organised country with a good, high-quality and stable economy that we can be a good member of the European Union at the moment. So, first of all, I would like to have our relations in the country and our problems solved for ourselves, because of our future, and not because we are in line with the European Union, and it is even worse when the European Union and the harmonisation of the acquis of the European Union becomes an excuse for some bad solutions and for the lack of political will to get into serious problems that are unfortunately not since yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43762	Thank you. And another replica, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43763	Comrade Opačić, your assessment of the work of the State Inspectorate is a great warning to both the minister and the competent ministry. Besides being poorly organized, they are unable to enforce the existing law. The provisions of the new labour law shall bear the greatest risks in the provisions relating to the regulation of working time or the flexibility of working time. So many possibilities that basically every employer can solve the flexibility of working time, so much opportunity. I'm asking the minister if he's assessed whether he'll be able to control the compliance of this law. If he had assessed these provisions, the government wouldn't have brought them in, he wouldn't have. It will not be possible to control and there are the biggest injustices, when the worker notices he has no respect for the law, and the minister will not be able to control it. Therefore, these dangerous provisions that will lead to the worker's feeling threatened because the law is not being implemented, and the minister will be completely powerless, will cause the biggest dissatisfaction. And then we wonder who's responsible. The law, however, proposes by the Government, and is unable to implement it, and that is something the minister would still have to go and think about another reading and see if he can be trained and how he can be able to control the provisions and those that would violate the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43764	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43765	That's right, colleague Linic, you're right. Unfortunately, one part of this law opens up a new space for the manipulation of employers and for violation of labour rights. So what you're saying here about the division of working time in four weeks about the average calculation is simply one big space again and one big eldorado for employers who will not respect workers' rights but will again primarily protect their interests. I will now take the opportunity to say that in this report, therefore, the State Inspectorate has asked for two more things to change in the Labour Act that we have warned in our amendments, which is that the beginning of a working relationship, i.e. application for compulsory pension and health insurance, must be regulated within 15 days but with the first day of work. And secondly, to edit real-time records differently because it also presents a very big problem. Unfortunately, you haven't adopted any of that in this Labour Act. I urge you once again to consider the amendments we have made on behalf of the SDP Club and to at least try to make the law better and close as much space as possible to employers who exclusively look at how to bypass the Labour Act, not how to direct all their strengths to increase profits in their company.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43766	Thank you. And we're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to start with, I can say that today is actually a sad day for Croatian workers. They are not aware of this right now because on the other side of the assembly they are getting, if they have listened to today's session, information that this is some kind of historically good law that will solve many dilemmas in a way that will make the worker better. Unfortunately, practice will show that it's not nearly that way. Here I'll just say some evidence in my debate about it. In fact, this is a law that reduces workers' rights and explains that we are harmonising with the European Union. That is precisely what the European Union prohibits, so it prohibits calling on them when it comes to harmonisation of laws in a way that reduces rights. Today it was also mentioned here that the letter of the Secretary-General of the European Union confederate was not accidentally addressed to the President of the Parliament, because he wanted to appeal to it, to the conscience, in fact, of the advocate who would raise his hand for this law. Therefore, he stresses in his letter that the process of harmonising labour law does not require the reduction of acquired labour rights but rather the opposite. Today we were able to pass a fairer and fairer law. The HDZ has been calling all day for SDP to pass a bad law in 2003. Here, this was an opportunity to fix everything that was, I suppose, since I wasn't then a representative of the HDZ's observations as an opposition, to make a law that would be truly fair and just. However, this opportunity has been missed today. This law will offer, like, the legalisation of so far bad practice, enabling manipulation by the employer and exploitation of workers. And here's what I'm gonna say at the beginning, and I'm gonna say some evidence of what I'm saying. First, establishing an average working time in which the employer's work week can make a difference. So the worker can work 60 hours a week. Let's just think about how he must be motivated, how he must feel a worker who works 60 hours a week. That's what the soul gave for the injuries, for the state of prolonged stress. So, for all that ultimately leads to an increased number of illnesses, it causes problems for the employer who he is not aware of at that time. I have to say, since the medical work is my profession, that I've met in my business with a lot of all kinds of employers. There were those who were looking to maximise the law, there were those who really treated their workers in one truly respectful way. Unfortunately, though, those who behave in a positive way are in a large minority. So, I don't even blame the employer who, at the moment he determines working time for a worker who will be 60 hours a week, that he doesn't realize that it might ultimately be a problem for him because that worker is going to get hurt at work or he's going to get sick because of some disease caused by fatigue, stress, and so on, I don't blame him. But we are the ones who have to pass a law here that will make it impossible for the employer to simply come to the opportunity of the worker in this way to work overtime. What's still very interesting is the only motivation for overtime, so far the overtime that obviously out of this law-making will no longer be time-consuming. The only possible motivation is that the worker was paid a little better for those overtime hours. Now, unfortunately, there won't be any more. So he'll do a lot more for the same month's salary. I also find it totally unacceptable that there is no more absolute ban on the overtime of pregnant women, parents until the third year of a child's life, single parents up to six years old. They're just risky categories that shouldn't decide for themselves whether to work overtime, let alone be the employer who tells them now you have to work overtime. What has been mentioned here today particularly much, what has been the most objections were the contracts on a particular one. So these contracts are one means of blackmail, a means in which an employer can therefore extend the contract 36 times in three years every month to a worker. I have worked for a certain five years and I know what this means and how it affects the sense of security, or uncertainty, how it affects the confidence of workers. It's a really difficult situation that keeps you feeling such a constant stomach cramp. There are some exceptions defined here in the law that will be able to do so, but there are so many exceptions that they could become a rule. Therefore, in our amendments, we have proposed, among other things, limiting the number of consecutive contracts to two. But here is what the government has already called for in advance on the European Commission, which says it is necessary to introduce mechanisms that will effectively prevent the abuse of the institute of work on a specific one. So I mean what you can say I know us, we know us. Well, with people just where employers can't say everyone, there are positive exceptions, but they'll see that they make the most of what the law has is simply providing. Therefore, in our opinion, it must not be left for a millimeter of the employer’s imagination that he uses the law as he does, and to the harm of the workers, for they will simply make a fat use of it. That contracts on a particular thing in Croatia are not clearly said in the data that over 80% of last year's contracts, as well as in previous years, have been signed on a certain one. So this institute is very much used by us, and that is why we should have, and that is why we have proposed in the amendment some conditions where such possibility should be limited. Here, I sincerely hope, unfortunately doesn't give me much of the optimism of the situation so far as it was, as SDP's amendments were treated. We've given you 44 amendments. I sincerely hope to be considered after all. My God in hope is salvation, even though I say so far practice doesn't give me much right to optimism. So this is a law that proves in many details that the government has put itself directly on the side of the employer, and that workers will be asked even less than before. So this is another one in a series of bad news for Croatian workers in the whole situation in Croatia today, where those who are employed are anxious for their jobs because every day an increasing number of people are out of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43768	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Brankica Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43769	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I will rely on your debate in the part where you say that this Labour Act establishes a ban on the night labor of pregnant women, but only if an authorised doctor has found that such work endangers her life and health. That provision should be prescribed in the opposite way, i.e. to determine how a pregnant woman's employer should determine nighttime work only if an authorised doctor determines that such work does not endanger her life and health. In addition to pregnant women in the ban on night labor, a woman who is breastfeeding was certainly to be included. This category has been left out of that prohibition. The fact is that Directives of the European Union generally prescribe only minimum standards, which do not prevent the establishment of more than one level of law and, in particular, in the context of the principle by which the harmonisation procedure does not go below the level of rights acquired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43770	Replica reply, Ms. Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43771	I'd like to thank my colleague, Blackie, for mentioning this. I mean, here I am as a doctor and as a mother I really mean and proved in the end line that in a political career, I think that a pregnant woman is not a woman who should live in a way that I don't know what kind of regime she's sick. So you should try to live as much as possible, what you say is normal. But here, I think this daily vacation is extremely important and I'm sure no doctor will dare tell a pregnant woman that she can work night shifts, because she won't accept that responsibility because of this woman's lack of nighttime rest, that he's guilty of it. So it seems to me all expensive senseless. It was simply forbidden and no longer asked questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43772	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today we hear from those who are taking this very form, the proposed form of this bill, say that it is a alignment with the directives of the European Union and we, in this kind of text, in this form of law must also accept it. And in most of the laws that we are harmonising domestic legislation with European legislation, we have such an actual answer. We need to coordinate that exactly the way we do. These are the criteria or conditions for closing certain chapters. And now I'm just going to say two examples of how we are, how we do it. Yesterday, the government had amendments and additions to the Agricultural Support Act at its session. When we adopted this law here in Parliament 2, 3 months ago then it was said exactly in that form that must be adopted, it is in accordance with the Association Agreement, with European legislation and this is a condition for closing the agricultural chapter. What does it mean now that after two months the law is not even in place, we have changes and additions? These days, we will also be in the agenda of the Credit Institutions Act, which we also brought in a short time ago and said that this is a compliance with European legislation. However, this is a slightly different situation with this law. Directives of the European Union which regulate labour law actually prescribe minimum conditions. National legislation should accept at least those minimum conditions. So we are not forbidden to impose better conditions in our national labour law than in European directives. So this, like this persistent defense, we are now introducing into our national legislation exactly what the European Union has, can and must not be true. We can ensure even greater rights. I don't know what that kind of thing is, now it's being defended that this law doesn't reduce existing rights. And then we say that we've abolished some rights. Let's get them back. In six years, we could have brought them back. If not in six years, let's get them back to this law. No European directive prevents us from having better conditions than are prescribed by the European Union directives. What is, in fact, two important objectives that legislation should achieve are working legislation. It's to protect the weaker side. The weaker side in such negotiations is workers. Therefore, the health and safety of workers should be protected and employers should be prevented. No one says there is mass abuse of labour rights in Croatia. In fact, a large number or the largest number of employers want to have a satisfied worker, well paid and if he wants to do long-term business, if he has one specialized production that requires the expertise of his employees, he will be very good at keeping his workers and his jobs. Even in times of recession and times of crisis as they are today in Croatia, it will try to preserve as many of its jobs as possible, just so that when it comes out of the crisis that there are no major earthquakes and that someone new doesn't have to learn in these jobs. And what is the history of labour law in independent Croatia? Let's just remember that first law, early or mid-90s when we passed it, when workers were required even obedience. The first versions of the Labour Law spoke, not even about employees or employees, but about someone who obeyed the employer. The workman's word was undiscovered, it was not in Croatian labour law, it was returned. The worker was returned to the Labour Act only in 2003. That's when the lockout institute was introduced, which in practice means a strike ban. So one rigid legislation that was, you may have another opinion, but if the worker can close, if the employer can close the factory if the workers strike, what is it, but a strike ban? What are the problems in Croatia? Why can you pay such a minimum worker? There are two reasons why a minimum wage is paid by a worker. One is a very high labour price that burdens the price of the product, because at some levels the pay and obligation exceeds 52%. So the worker 52% of his earnings must be financed by state and public needs, and only 48% remain with him. It is, there is a problem with the fiscal system in Croatia, what we keep trying to say is that it is an unsustainable state, that incomes from work are so highly taxed by taxes, which by parataxing, rather than spreading tax types. Another problem is that there remains a low net wage, of which a worker cannot meet the minimum needs of life. That may seem because we have a low employment rate. Of the total active population, therefore, this rate measured in the population aged 15 to 65 is only 44.5%. So the demand for a job is great, the employer can choose, and then chooses what is best for him, and no one can blame him. He can pay a worker a little, he can keep him long to work for a certain time, he can even be violated by some of his rights prescribed by the Constitution and by law. So when I said that the state had to protect the weaker side in this case of workers, it would have to do so on several segments. It should support and strengthen the union movement. So, the union would have to be in function, it would have to be and supported perhaps in the first time and certain legal provisions, to stimulate workers to trade unions and that that's their interest. She would have to stimulate collective bargaining, her colleague Hrelja said something about it, not leave it to the employer's will whether he wants to talk to the union or the working council in his company or not. We have faced cases that the owner of the company prohibits even the entry of the union and let alone the union organisation of its workers. More effective surveillance, we need a new law on state inspectorate and, in particular, judicial protection that needs to be effective and swift. As time expires, I would look back only from a series of amendments that our Club has made to the proposal of this law, only to Article 3 which speaks in the restriction of application. It is called here on the European Directive, it is about jobs where it can be deviated from the provision of daily and weekly holidays, and then I would particularly refer to paragraph 3 which states that this refers to workers who, as management staff, are bound by the statute of the social contract of a declaration of establishment or other rules of employers, are authorised to conduct the affairs of employers. This is so broadly defined that the employer can determine by means of his act that such management staff is up to the level of the head of the shift and catch the largest number of employees, the possibility of restrictions in application, and for example, if a reduced daily vacation can take 20 hours and that 7 weeks does not have to use the daily rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43774	Thank you. Replica Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43775	My colleagues when you were saying that certain employers, and you really immediately drew attention to the fact that there are employers who are truly consciously fulfilling their legal obligations even more because they realize that their work with workers is common and they see it as a social process. However, the truth is that, and these are not rare, these are worrying phenomena that escalate year after year because the state is real deaf, dumb and blind and does not find a way and obviously does not want to do so, because it has all the mechanisms to use to protect workers because they are often left to the inhumane treatment of employers and to unsustainable competition. I cannot simply, and this power should not allow employers to simply subject our entire lives to their economic logic, to their own economic logic, and to take advantage of their whole affairs, or to the functioning of the state, by turning this into their own benefit without regard to the human dignity of workers, to the social aspect of the economy, even to social justice and one common good. This is not what the Government should do, especially at this adventary time when the first benches in all churches will be reserved for all members of the Government, we should remember exactly the words of John Paul II. who said just on 1 May 1991 when he published "Enciclica Centesimus anus" on the 100th anniversary of "Enciclica rerum novrum" saying exactly about workers' issues and the protection of workers and what you said to colleagues Zgrebec now in the 1990s when it was an explicit provision, of course it was not a worker, but an employee obliged to obey the employer. You mentally, or mentally, even though these provisions are no longer in place, have not made much progress. And that's why this is happening to us that nothing really happens to the protection of workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43776	Home Vice-President Zeljka Antunović, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43777	Thank you very much. Well, given the very large number of amendments that the SDP Club has given to this Act, I will try to put on my own review of the political and social context in which we are going to amend the Labour Law. A good part of what I think and advocate has just been said by a colleague of Zgrebec who had her own exposure right before me. In view of the effects on the position of workers and on the position of employers, I have come to the conclusion that it is much more important that these changes in the law reflect on the position of workers than on the position of employers, and that these amendments and additions of the Law will cause further and so difficult jobs without giving employers an extremely better position than they have today. When the state budget was debated yesterday, then it seems to me that we who spoke from this position of the SDP that we strongly advocated the interests of employers. Today when we are discussing this law in existing social and economic conditions, then I am holding not only our obligation, but I am holding unnecessary too much to advocate the interests of the employer. In fact, the position of workers in Croatian society is in itself very difficult because of the labour market. The full liberal relationship in the labour market that governs brings workers into some kind of position in which they are valued. In view of the insufficient supply of labour market work, it must accept different blackmailing positions. It must work for a underrated price, it must accept violations of the Labour Act and keep silent about it, it does not help the union's existence, because unfortunately the union is organised as it is and often the workers do not seek the protection of the union, because between protection and existence, they still choose existence. And I think that this is the legislator, regardless of the pretext of compliance with the European Union Directive, should be taken into account. Currently, workers in Croatia are in such a position as to need additional protection of the state. We've often been listening to a sentence used by a presidential candidate lately. He says, "Justice is in your hands." He's talking to the citizens. And I think that justice in relation to the workers here in this assembly is in our hands, with representative hands. It's one thing. Even the existing law is not much worse than what is offered, therefore, right like this or like that, I don't think right now is the key to what we need to think about. I think that we need to think about justice for workers, and in order to achieve how much justice, then I think that the amendments to the law should not go in this direction, but in some other ways that can be done to improve the application of the existing law. One sentence I heard from one MP from the ruling majority in the context of this debate on amendments and additions to the Labour Act was "And this was the first amendment and addition of the law in these last twenty years that will not significantly violate workers' rights". I think it's actually a sentence that shows that all of us, in relation to the protection of the interests of workers, are actually defeated. Beated through all these years, and so on these changes and additions. It's not good, it's not what citizens expect us to do, it's not what will contribute to a better economic position or workers or employers on the labour market, it's not what will create a new perspective, a development perspective in economic terms in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, this is another law that will pass because it is covered on one side by the requirements of the European Union, which is also wrong. On the other hand, with a long debate at the tripartite level, but unfortunately, there will be insufficient debate, not seriously debated in the Croatian Parliament, and there will be once more solutions that will unfortunately make the position of workers so difficult. Let us try to think about it, try not to accept everything offered in this law, try to accept some of the improved solutions offered in this debate or to offer proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43778	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43779	My colleagues and colleagues allow me to say a few introductory words about the whole and also the context which changes the Labour Act, including the arguments cited as a reason for changing this law. I do not think that this is a sad day for Croatia or for Croatian workers, nor do I think that these changes are a crucial deterioration in the position of Croatian workers, and even less I think that they will in any way help to improve the position of Croatian workers, if that is the subject we are talking about today. A fundamental issue that should be managed by the Government when it comes to the proposal of one of these laws should be the question not of how to meet the form and demand of the European Union, but of how to respond to the interests of three actors in this case. On the one hand, how best to protect the interests of workers, how to protect the interests of employers and how to protect the interests of the national economy. To the extent that this or any other law in the labour-social legislation package helps to address these issues to such extent, the law may be acceptable or unacceptable to the adoption and acceptance of this Parliament. What is really in the context of a proposal to amend this law concerns? It concerns the fact that we are completely deaf, blind, autistic towards changes that are so powerful, so deep in the world of work, that we do not recognize the importance of these changes and the far-reaching consequences of these changes and the lives of every individual, every citizen, but also of national economies in Europe and the world and wherever these changes occur. First of all, the fact that number one in our environment is the fact that the huge unemployment we still have in Croatia is a problem that is once again becoming very current and it is very important to have it in front of our eyes when the problem of unemployment wants to be resolved and when it comes to working-social legislation. It is not acceptable, it is not seen as something that could motivate the legislator in this bill. Another major change that includes and affects the world of work is the enormous precaration or work uncertainty that has not passed by workers of any developing country or developed country. Flexible work leads to the fact that, in addition to its own good, it enables people to work more, that they are more easily employed in different forms of work, and that the work becomes insecure and insecure if the state does not compensate for increased security measures, that people are unhappy, that they are afraid, that their existence is getting worse, that they are brought into a more medically unfavourable situation. So uncertainty in itself is a major problem that serious societies need to think about systematically. The characteristic of this world is labour and the globalisation of capital, the globalisation of the commodity markets. Only the labour markets actually remained closed in the national courtyards and then in the 1990s, especially in the countries of transition, something that we call social dumping happened. In my time, I talked to colleagues from the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Slovenia and how and how to stop these transition states from competing which will offend more and, in a legislative sense, make them less secure just because they are hit by these transitional times. However, if circumstances are as they are, if in the neoliberal concept of capitalism, the system has led to the fact that workers have received lemon responsible government needs to find a way to make lemonade out of lemons, and that lemonade can only be made if we have responsible, competent governments able and ready with political will to protect and national interests, economic interests and the interests of their citizens, primarily workers, as weaker sides in these new constitutions and conflicts of labour and capital. This bill unfortunately represents minor changes in relation to the maximum needs the labour market in Croatia would also require because it is a living organism and live tissue that must be constantly monitored. Croatia had not even had a minister of work for six years because it exclusively referred, exclusively represented itself as a minister of the economy and the work was a completely neglected and marginalized topic as if it were not really the most important social system of a country and every society. The impression is that Croatia doesn't care about both workers and employers. We are the only country in Europe as far as I follow that which does not have, for example, the Institute for Labour, has no system of scientific and serious monitoring of what is happening on that labour market and in the world of work. We also do not have adequate social dialogue, occasionally calling on employers and trade union representatives, and one or two months of the prime minister's arrival at these meetings is not social dialogue. The form was actually trying to cover up the real lack of social dialogue and lack of social partnership in Croatia. The result of the lack of social partnership and dialogue is precisely wanted and seen in the fact that this law comes without the consent of the social partners before this Assembly. What I would like to say, given that time slowly stands out as a particular problem, is what caused the most disdain by the union and therefore further I would say that the situation of workers related to a legislative normative solution is worsened for a certain time. The amendments that have submitted 40 of these amendments do not affect any directive of the European Union and are absolutely acceptable. And they, as colleagues have warned above standards or within standards, but in the upper part of the standards because there is no reason to accept suboptimal and substandard solutions because we are talking to God about our own country, our own people, our own workers. They will not in any way compromise the interests of employers. They are therefore not opposed to the interests of the national economy or the interests of employers. I therefore appeal to accept these solutions. To the extent that we can ensure that our workers are protected without going below the standards, below the European Union's solution, and in that sense we do not make our national economy less competitive, there is no reason not to accept it. In 2003, we had the World Bank, the IMF, etc. We have managed to pass labour legislation where we have amended 11 laws, 55 completely new legal solutions that we have protected workers. We did not damage any employer in any way, nor were any of the workers at risk. Here, a number of times mentioned restrictions on severance and cancellation deadlines were merely bringing not to an average but to the highest level of standards in the European Union, which even now the trade unions protect. So, if we could bring so many quality, proactive, working laws in 2003, there is no reason not to take a step further today because they are not opposed to the European Union directives either.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43780	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43781	Thank you. A colleague Vidovic, like you, has often been talked about the relationship between employers and employees, but I need to say something that has not been mentioned, and this is about the lack of business morality of the manager who conducts the policy of employers. A fake painting was created about the importance of the manager in Croatia, and about the godless insignificance of employees in the success of the overall business. However, these same managers, some who receive a million, two, three million nets a year, give these employees 25 to 30 thousand kuna a year and abuse them and harass them. And there are those who treat employees primarily as human beings, but most of them treat employees as goods, as a cost, and measure their success mostly with the number of fired employees. And the man is not free unless he's economically free. And since her colleague Antičević was quoting Pope John Paul II. Then I will also see Paul Joseph Ratzinger who says that freedom cannot be kept to himself, it is indivisible and should be observed at the level of general humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43782	The answer is not a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43783	I'm completely in agreement and I'm glad you warned of a dimension that I didn't get to say in this, which actually points to the fundamental problem we have. It's gonna bleed out here around an institute, this one or that one, whether it's gonna be one way or the other. And the whole practice actually goes through our fingers and good and bad, so good law or law enforcement isn't just in the interests of workers, it's in the interest of an honest employer. We honest employers must protect against the hohstapplers who have entered the world, not to make money in business, but to rob, to exploit workers most brutally and, in fact, endanger employers who work decently, as you yourself have warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43784	One correction. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Vidovic incorrectly stated that the Croatian government doesn't care about both workers and employers. That's incorrect. So the Croatian government is making immense efforts to improve jobs and jobs. In addition to this, business zones that are open, about 300 etc., what is the number of jobs exactly of the Ministry of Labour, Economy and Entrepreneurship in that part of the effort and only the Economic and Social Council where the social partners are engaged and negotiated at all times. But unlike that time, you speak affirmatively from 2000 to 2003, so in that part there were reduced maximum rights, from maternity benefits to here and I have to go back to my profession, and other rights to the doctors you imposed on. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43786	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43787	Your Honor, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I will say that I agree with all those who in today's debates have said that this legislative proposal does not bring anything revolutionary. Some institutes in it have been broken, but I fear that even so-broken ones will not contribute to the protection of workers and workers being better. However, I think this proposal will legalise poor Croatian practice so far under the pretext of compliance with the European acquis. But let me say some things in order. One of the most important intensities of this legislative proposal is that the contract on work at a certain time should be an exception, not a rule. Croatia is really quite the opposite. Contracts at a certain time are an exception, and they are a rule for a certain time. Which people would say, the law in the woods, and indeed in the road. Namely, the case-law in Croatia does not consider the continuation of work after the expiry of the contract on work for a certain period of time by working indefinitely. In addition, our citizens, our employees for a certain time are literally citizens of the second order. When they show up in banks with a request to get a bank loan, they simply don't want to talk to them. A few more words about the flexibility of the work. The flexibility of work should in principle be positively perceived both for the employer and for the worker. For the employer because it opens up a space of rapid and effective response to phenomena in the world of work and should reduce labour costs for the employer. And for the worker because it opens up greater opportunities in the world of work, while at the same time allowing better adjustment of employees to family conditions and family obligations. However, in recent Croatian conditions, flexibility will certainly result in the escalation of unpaid work that has so far been an extremely massive phenomenon, and so far employees have achieved hundreds of thousands of overtime hours that no one has ever paid. In this place, I will remind you that the SDP club has proposed amendments to the Penal Code to which non-payment of salaries would be sanctioned as a criminal offence. Unfortunately, we know in advance what the fate of this law will be. A colleague, Maric, just a short time ago, said yesterday about the budget, that Croatian entrepreneurs had achieved 220 billion kuna in the past ten years. I'll say that the huge part of that gets pulled out of the business process and immobilized in expensive properties, in expensive cars, in travel consumption. And this irrational and wasteful vacuuming of newly created value from the business sphere and its transfer to consumption is actually one of the most important reasons for the huge financial problems facing the Croatian economy today. In the context of today’s debate on the Labour Law, however, it is a question of what part of it was to be obtained by workers who created it. Entrepreneurs created it with their financial capital and entrepreneurial ideas and workers with their capital, work and knowledge. In fact, it sounds hypocritical to say that workers are the most important developmental resource. They're actually the most exploited developmental resource. How much of the newly created wealth was taken from workers because employers could also afford it because of the globalisation of the labour market and the fall in labour prices. I'll try to document this from the OECD report. In fact, globalisation is designed to bring profit to everyone. But decades pass, and the vast majority of people are actually making a smaller share in world wealth generated by economic growth. The OECD report is about this dark side of globalisation. China, India, Brazil and Russia are pools of cheap labour that account for 40% of the world's total labour contingent. For comparison, European Union countries account for around 20%. In the last 20 years, therefore, since the 1990s, the share of wages in the gross domestic product has been reduced on average 20%, with this being 7% in the United States, in the European Union 13, and in Japan as much as 25%. The gap between those who make a lot of money and those who are at the bottom of the payroll is increasing rapidly. Unfortunately, the fact is that globalisation cannot be prevented, but it is the task of the national government to fight its national legislation against the negative consequences of globalisation, which is one of the most dramatic, precisely the fall in labour price. However, even a quality legislative framework is not a guarantee of effective protection of labour rights. This guarantee is exclusively more effective than the institutions of the rule of law. So we can also pass a good labour law. But if it won't work all the other levers from the inspection work to the judiciary then we haven't actually done anything. It is a sad fact that today's labour inspectors can buy one good lunch, and it is also a sad fact that working legal disputes have priority in Croatian courts. However, despite this urgency, seven, eight, and 10 years still last. It would be really funny if it wasn't tragic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43788	Thank you. Final review, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Đuro Popijac. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43789	Vice President, thank you very much. I thank all the participants for the discussion of the constructive presentation of the proposals for thinking, suggestions. Here's our ministry will really try to consider all your proposals, all your amendments. And believe me, if there is a reasonable possibility that whatever is possible at this point, we must have, of course, a understanding of what reason this law is, first and foremost, built into solutions, which we must communicate with our social partners that we will try to do so. I need to say something about working for a certain time. A lot of things have been said and it's true that most contracts have been negotiated for some years. However, no one mentions how much these contracts have grown into work indefinitely. The fact is and that is true, and you need to know that the total number of contracts in Croatia is 12.6% of the total number of workers and the European Union average is 14.5%. This means, no matter how long the contracts are concluded for a certain period of time, one of the largest parts of those contracts is extended indefinitely. If not, then the percentage of contract participation at a certain time in the total number of employees would grow, and it does not grow. The unemployment rate is extremely low and we all agree. The Lisbon agenda speaks 70%. We're at 57%. That's what statistics say, not 44%. Unfortunately, we must also agree that the good part of that percentage is right in the public sector. So this economy, of course, that you expect from me personally, is also the main of its future activities and will focus on raising the number of employees in the real sector. As for the protection of women and pregnant women, of course we can emotionally speak here you're right. But what if we forbid it, and we cannot ban it because you see it is in line with the European Directive. What if a pregnant woman wants to work at night? There are wonderful jobs well-paid at night call centres, say. So we can't ban work at night because it's discrimination. I'm a minister for five days and this law was passed on to the government on 22.10. So, from the position of the Minister of Economy, I could in no way influence anything. But, of course, I've participated in 16 months together with my colleagues who I'm sorry for now publicly if I offended them with that little remark, but they're not here right now. But I had no intention of disabling our work together, bloody work all this time. I didn't mean that they don't work because they're here. Non-payment of wages, as you know, contractual relationship is therefore a working relationship, today a contract between the employer and the worker. And you probably know that sanctioning non-payment of salaries is governed by special regulations, the Income Tax Act and the Contribution Act. There is no need for two readings since the law is fully in line with the European Union, but we will see what and how the amendments you have proposed will be treated. Just a note, the Labour Act is not a Bible. She can be considered by workers. The labour law is one of the fundamental documents governing the labour market, and I think we can agree that the labour market is the way in which one of the essential elements of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and society function as a whole. It is the same, this same Labour Act is a Bible of businessmen and businessmen. I'm really sorry, I don't know how many entrepreneurs are watching this debate. You'll resent me now, probably, because you'll say I'm coming from an interested group again. I'm the economy minister today, of course you expect him to probably do something for the economy in a very short time, and primarily to make it competitive. So many difficult words that have been addressed to entrepreneurship, of course you speak to all those who are bad. Well, we've always said, I'm saying today, of course, there are bad ones. But 800,000 people work in the private sector today. They didn't deserve to be likely, when you listen to it on this side, it still gets the impression that it's generalized too much. I agree with the lady who last said that every grain of course has a weed, but it's being eradicated by mechanisms, repression, the state, and that's all right. We can't just root him out by law. I agree with all who have said that law enforcement only guarantees successful implementation and only allows for what we want by law. Believe me, I come from that world, and I've been able to be an employer myself, after all, and the manager, this is amazing to me, but even in the world of entrepreneurship, there's no interest in exploiting workers. That's what you all know, of course. The world of entrepreneurship corresponds to an orderly system, loyal and fair competition, and no abuse of legal environments and incompetence of institutions to do their job. But this Labour Act is the law and the Bible and the economics. And there's got to be a balance here. The greatest protection of workers, labour rights is a successful businessman, and no successful economic worker is exploiting workers. And it's in his interest, of course, to have a satisfied worker, and you mentioned them. And only then can he be successful. Now I'm not talking about some of your comments on, just some about the law, here's just one general review. And I assure you that I will personally move on, because for the first time in this way and I am talking to you as representatives, make sure that we continue to try together with the social partners, with unions at various levels, not only at the central level of the Economic and Social Council, but we will continue to open dialogue, industrial dialogue with industrial unions, with the real sector and look for the best and best-quality solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43790	Thank you. One correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43791	It is incorrect that Mr. Minister has now claimed that there is a contract, that there is a salary, in fact a contractual relationship, part of a contractual relationship, that there can be no sanctioned non-payment of wages here, because that is settled by another law that speaks of taxes. What do you, Mr. Minister, do to me at all, you didn't understand the whole of our debate at all, nor can you just go out and enter the world of work. Well, the fundamental right of a worker is to pay for it. And he's not protected here or trespassing, and we're looking for criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43792	So who challenged it? I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing 2nd, on Wednesday, at 9 a.m., a vote on the budget and on all other points discussed, including this one. 9 o'clock, 2.12., 2 December, Wednesday, 9 o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43793	And we're moving on to the final draft labour law. It was an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. Number 461. The debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: First, on the Proposal for a Law on Working with the Final Bill, a debate was held in the first reading. Secondly, all comments and proposals from the debate shall be made to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the text of the final draft law. I ask the Government's representative to be made aware of the proposed conclusion of the Representatives' Club. Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43794	Thank you, Mr. President. The government does not accept the proposed conclusion. Namely, what we expect on the 21st of the month is the closure of chapter 19. The terms of closure are the Labour Act. I remind you of a 60-day period in which a further harmonisation of the views on this law with the social partners is expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43795	Since the government does not accept then I am voting on the bill submitted by the SDP advocates' club. Please, let's get on board and vote on it. The result? This law was not adopted because it was voted by 31 MPs, 4 abstentions and 74 against. Mr. Representative Furio Radin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43796	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament thank you very much for giving me your word. It's about the Labour Act, the very important instrument, the organic one that we bring today. I'm asking him to be present as minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43797	To be present, the minister and I are asking for the presence of a minister, but it is enough according to our Rules of Procedure that there is a secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43798	I know, but I wasn't talking about the Rules of Procedure. I was talking about the importance of a law like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43799	I also think it's important and please, I can't do anything but agree with your wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43800	But I would just like to say one more thing, Mr. President, thank you for giving me support because we really need to introduce parliamentaryism in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43801	You're absolutely right and we're going to ask you to be important, but it's hard to determine now what's less important, but some important laws to have ministers or vice-presidents of the government, but this time I can't do it for procedural or business reasons, but there's also the vice-president of the government who's competent for this whole area. Therefore, I think it meets these demands of ours here and I ask that we move to a plea, and Minister Resorial was during the debate, but there is also the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the area in the government, so I think we can move to a statement on the amendments. First we have, here you go, Mr. Lesar, tell us who we hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43802	Mr. President, when drawing up an amendment review on the final proposal of the Labour Act, Article 169(6) of the Treaty was injured. Rules of Procedure which speak and prescribes the order of declaration on amendments submitted to the same provision of the law of the same content. Of the 92 amendments to this review in 10 cases on the same article, the same content of the amendments is not respected in the order of amendments to the submission. I have submitted a description of these amendments to the work table, so please respect this provision of the Rules of Procedure which discusses the order of declaration on amendments to the same content in the same provisions of the law. That I don't read what amendments they are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43803	Thank you. The explanation is as follows, Article 169. "If more amendments to the identical content are submitted to one of the final drafts of the law, only the first of them shall be voted on." In our practice in Parliament first, if the same amendment was submitted by the board, then by the club, and then by the representative. It is therefore all within the scope of our practice and in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to the amendment. The first amendment is Mr Sima Lučina's representative in Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43804	It's not acceptable... to the law on the same-sex communities and the rights afforded by that law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43805	Mr. Shime Luchin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43806	Thank you very much. I must admit, I haven't heard such a concise and clear explanation in a long time. I mean, why isn't it acceptable? For the simple reason this amendment on the Labour Act says nothing but requires compliance with part of Croatian legislation. I also warn you that you have such precedents in the Strasbourg court where work disputes have been lost precisely because of the lack of review of the facts of extramarital communities and same-sex communities. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43807	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2. Amendment of the SDP club representative to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43808	The government doesn't accept. We are originally taking over Article 17(2) and (3) of the relevant Directive and implementing horizontal alignment with sectoral regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43809	On behalf of the club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43810	Probably if the reasons had been justified then you'd have heard them. This is how the deputies didn't even hear them, which is your argument, but the fact is that from the rights given to this law the exceptions to these rights and the right to an annual vacation have been significantly reduced. And what are we looking for with this amendment of ours? That such exceptions, which are really due to the nature of the work in certain activities, are necessary to minimise just as we propose, otherwise they will often be questioned in different places of health, and then ultimately the lives of workers. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43811	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3. Amendments by Dragutin Lesar have been consummated through these amendments 2. 4th Amendment of Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43812	It is not accepted as the employer's duty has been raised in the debate... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43813	You can't hear anything, so pay attention to the MPs...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43814	Get a little closer to the microphone, and it'll get better.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43815	So the government doesn't accept. Namely, such as the law, or the bill of law, the proposed duty of the employer is to keep the full record of working time. In the debate, it's explained, not just certain hours. So certain hours, paid, unpaid vacations, vacations, holidays, days off, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43816	Thank you, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43817	I am not satisfied with the reasons for the refusal of this amendment because its intention was to introduce it in this law mandatory to keep records of presence or absence from work. The more this law removes all legal regulations, the old legal regulations, about keeping records from the field of work. Your explanation is actually such that something may be regulated, but in an unknown way. That's why I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment. And Mr. President, in advance for all of you to submit my amendments, I am giving up any explanation, any vote on everyone, given that the order of amendments you have interpreted as practices in the House is not true, because there is therefore a record number of amendments submitted and thus denied me the right to explain the motives and what with them in the 10 amendments. As a sign of protest, I will not comment on any more of the government's negative manifestations, but I demand a vote for all my amendments. That's how I protest the practice you allegedly introduced this day.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43818	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43819	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43820	This amendment is an integral part of the bill. Six. The SDP representative's club shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43821	We have not accepted the provision directly from Directive 70, and I refer to a fact-finding question, i.e. the prescription of the reasons for the conclusion of a work contract for a certain period of time, and not to the taxation of reasons as proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43822	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43823	This amendment, submitted by the SDP club, refers to me as an important and important provision of a fixed-term working contract, which is cancer of the early and of this bill and the source of the greatest abuses so far, and looks like it won't end. And exactly what the SDP club insists, as well as not only the directives, but also the practice of the European Court of Justice for the implementation of that directive, that mandatory Member States and countries of the State are to a maximum extent to specify and specify when a contract can be concluded for a certain time, precisely for the purpose of not abusing that institute. So what you've explained is essentially a falsification and you're falsifying the directives you're referring to. Because we're calling exactly 1483... The emphasis in the European Court of Justice's view. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43824	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Mr. Pupovac asked for something, related to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43825	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDSS Club and National Minority Representatives' Club before we continue to discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43826	The club asked for a break. I'm setting a break of 15 minutes and we're going on at 11.30.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43827	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session after the break requested at the request of SDSS and National Minority Representatives' Clubs. On behalf of both clubs, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac will state his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43828	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS and the Club of Representatives of National Minorities believes that we should not continue to discuss these amendments until the minister arrives and attends this debate. We think it's the most important law of this ministry, we could say that his organic law, and we think it is necessary for the minister to be present in this debate. The second thing we also think is that some of the proposed amendments by the SDP Representatives Club significantly amend this law, especially the amendment that we have rejected earlier on regarding work for a certain period of time. We at the SDSS Club and at the Club of National Minority Representatives believe that the refusal of the amendment, which expresses at the same time, is not a good position for the union and we are also not acceptable. And because of these differences, we would not want to stop the adoption of this law which is one of the European laws and which depends on the opening or closing of one of the chapters, we are proposing that Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of our HDZ colleagues, that the vote and the further debate on this law be postponed for Friday and that we consult and try to agree on what is most important. And of course, we believe that by Friday the minister will find time or schedule his obligations so that he can be present during the debate and vote of this law. If things were to go differently during this proposal, we at the SDSS Club and the National Minority Representatives Club would not be able to accept such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43829	Thank you very much. We will continue the debate and vote on the amendments and on the final vote, we will decide on the final draft law after the debate on the amendments has been held. The government has also authorised the minister and state secretary for the economy to work on drafting this law. ... Leave yourself alone, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who worked on the draft of this law and therefore the government's authority and the Government's meeting of the State Secretary is not a reason to suspend the debate on amendments and on this Labour Act. The Minister of Economy is officially prevented because he is out of Zagreb and on other business. We need to continue this debate. Secondly, as regards the scales of the matter, with regard to the content and acceptability or non-acceptability of certain amendments, the Assembly will declare and demonstrate by voting. Amendment number seven of Dragutin Lesar's MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43830	Thank you. The government does not accept this amendment, namely... Article 10 of Directive No 70 has been assessed in accordance with the relevant Directive and as mentioned in the discussion of the previous amendment is a matter of fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In each individual case, the Court will assess the reasons for the work at a specified time. And I use one more chance to remind myself that in Croatia, in total employment contracts are represented for a certain period of time with 12.6% and that the measures taken by both this and the current law are being taken to prevent abuse show their results. Let me say that the European average is above 14% of the contract's representation at a certain time in total employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43831	So Amendment 7 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43832	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43833	What? It's unacceptable. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43834	Mr. President, I have said and I repeat in all my amendments I demand a vote and I will not look back on the State Secretary's explanation because I have been denied my business rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43835	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8th Amendment of Mr. Representative Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43836	The government doesn't accept. Therefore, Article 10 of the Law is fully assessed and in line with the relevant Directive 70, and we also refer to nomotechnical reasons for which this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43837	Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43838	I don't think the proposal for this law by the Government's work for a certain period of time is an exception. It becomes a rule and my proposal for an amendment is that it does not in any way become a rule, that extraordinary circumstances cannot last so long, they cannot last for three years. My proposal is that if it takes two years or more than two years then you have to give a contract for work indefinitely. And I also think that this law suffers from the need for excessive normation and that it could leave the freedom to collectively negotiate a single general collective contract that would say that the month after month cannot extend the contract of work to a certain time because when there are exceptional circumstances it must be known to predict their duration. I have not in practice recorded many cases that last for three years and then extend the work contract to a certain time month after month. It's a poor norm inaccurate and I don't think this has to be accepted, but it has to be accessed in another way. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43839	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Nine. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43840	The government doesn't accept. Namely, the statement in the draft law is fully in line with the provisions of the relevant Directive 70. And in that sense, with the assessment of compliance, the government will not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43841	From the SDP club, Ms. Agent Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43842	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President, I think it's necessary at this point to determine the quorum so that we can make good decisions on certain amendments as well. Our amendment refers to the precision of the situation that because of the employer no worker is employed indefinitely and does not work in such or similar jobs or has the same or similar expertise and ability and is the employer of the worker who works for a certain period of time is obliged to ensure appropriate working conditions. So our amendment is fully in line with the provisions of Council Directive 1999/70, because it precisely specifies these exceptionalities that have just become a opposition to the union, and with our opposition, that such situations are determined as accurately as possible. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43843	You wanted us to determine the quorum. 88 Let's go and see electronically. [[/Intruder: We're missing 88.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The quorum. 84. 84 quorum. ... Please, give me gentlemen and ladies. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who's for this amendment number nine? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10, Agent Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43844	The government doesn't accept. I would like to remind you that in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union, it is agreed to approach only those parts of the laws which are subject to compliance with the acquis of the European Union, the provision of Article 12 is not, and I would also stress that, in a no-technical sense, the amendment is not eligible for acceptance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43845	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43846	Madam Secretary of State, I am experiencing a very sincere response from you, and then the second time you write in the light of the law that it's not good to submit amendments to that part of the law that doesn't change so I know I don't have to try. But the fact is that here I have encountered illogicalness in the context of the conclusion of a work contract where paragraph 1 states that it must be in writing. The proposer shall then be legally provided for in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 for failures and failure to comply with such an obligation. So, instead of prescribing sanctions because the labour contract is not in fiscal form, we allow certain failures. And I'm asking you how someone can, and it's mandatory, written to cancel a work contract, and there's no written contract on work because it's in the spirit of this law. Namely, for the cancellation of the employment contract and the worker and employer, it must be cancelled in writing. Therefore, I think it would be normal if there were only one provision, that the labour contract must be in writing and no further cases should this article of the law be provided for. I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43847	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43848	The government doesn't accept. In particular, Article 12 is in line with the deadlines of the application which are subject to mandatory insurance, subject to the regulation of the specific rules in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43849	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43850	Unaccepting this amendment, the government has made it clear that it does not care about curbing the work on black which remains a major problem in protecting workers' rights, but also the spread of tax evasion. In order to curb work on black, it is proposed to shorten the deadline for compulsory application of workers to pension and health insurance. In practice, the current norm was large, allowing for work on black and non-registration of workers at a certain time. The State Inspectorate has even indicated such provisions to be effective and therefore it is quite unclear why the Government does not now accept this SDP amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43851	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43852	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43853	It becomes an integral part of the law. 13, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43854	The government doesn't accept. It is, therefore, the norm which is identical to that of the applicable law, and the provision of Article 21 is not at this stage the subject of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43855	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43856	This explanation that you just said has nothing to do with our amendment, because we are not just harmonising this law with the European Union, but we are looking at what our worker needs, but just by seeing which standards should be corrected in order to be as effective as possible in protecting workers' rights. Therefore, the fact that a worker cannot know at just such a moment is quite illusory to expect that he will go to a working relationship in such jobs where their existence would interfere with him in carrying out a work contract or that would endanger the lives or health of persons with whom he or she comes into contact in the performance of the job, or in the light of it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43857	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14, also the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43858	The government does not accept with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43859	It's the same as my argument right in... of this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43860	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15, also the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43861	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43862	It becomes an integral part of the law. 16, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43863	The government doesn't accept. I refer to the restrictions prescribed in Article 28 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43864	SDP club, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43865	In this regard, given that, in the case of work through the Agency for Temporary Employment, we are proposing that these amendments be made more specific. Because they were also the source of many abuses in the current law. Therefore, it is taught on this amendment, as well as those you refused to explain to us at the club, and it is incomprehensible that the Government does not want to change norms that were the source of uncertainty and abuse of the rights of workers. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43866	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 17th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43867	The government doesn't accept. In the conformity assessment process, the proposed amendment has not been assessed in accordance with Directive 104 of 2008, and the existing standard already has a positive conformity assessment by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43868	Representative Lesar. You said you weren't looking for an explanation. You were asking for a vote. Right? Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43869	It's unacceptable. In particular, Article 28 has an assessment of the consistency of the European Commission. It is a valid norm and was not subject to harmonisation. I would like to point out once again that the current standard has passed the European Commission's compliance assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43870	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43871	Our amendment also goes towards preventing abuses, and here in a specific case, that is, in this provision on the use of employee tolerance, it is necessary to really limit the time to which the agency is allowed to grant a worker to carry out temporary work. We hold for a year that it's too long a period that doesn't fit the definition of temporary jobs, and that's clear to everyone. I don't understand, or we don't understand how it's not clear to the government. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43872	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43873	The government doesn't accept. This Regulation shall enter The bill is not the subject of harmonisation. Once again, I would like to remind you that the agreement between the Government and the social partners is particularly at the level of trade unions and employers that this bill represents the necessary changes towards harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43874	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43875	Madam Secretary of State, we are making laws for Croatian citizens and we are aware of those provisions that must be harmonised, which are not against our citizens at all. But it is incomprehensible that you are explaining, or refusing here an amendment that goes to protect Croatian workers. So do you know that Mrs. Merkel is protecting German workers? Get into your head that your first mission is to protect Croatian citizens and Croatian workers. It is this amendment that goes towards supplementing item 3 for the purpose of experimental work, for the sake of precision, but also for all possible abuses that have also been the source of many injustices for workers who have found themselves and who have to be found to carry out permanent work on experimental work. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43876	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 20. Same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43877	The government does not accept for the same reasons as in previous reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43878	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43879	We also suggest that this formulation prevents any possible doubt in practice that arises whether the employer may cancel the working relationship to the experiment, for example after one or two months if he finds that he has not been satisfied. In the end, you must also know that the very provisions that we wanted to fix right now were the source of not only abuse, but also required the intervention of the court, but also the judicial decisions that are going to improve the current situation, and we now want to present and integrate this norm in order to avoid the situation so far. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43880	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43881	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43882	It becomes an integral part of the law. 22. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43883	The government doesn't accept. According to Article 38 of the Law, this substance is governed by the Labour Regulation, i.e. the Labour Contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43884	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43885	I can say the same as this previous amendment of ours. There is no obstacle to such a basic norm being resolved in law and further collective agreements specify certain situations. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43886	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 23. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43887	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43888	It becomes an integral part of the law. 24. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43889	The government doesn't accept. I refer to Article 107 of the Law and the content of the amendments, so that it consumes exactly Article 107 of the Law proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43890	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43891	In practice, this situation has a difference in opinion on whether it is a cancellation of a business condition or a conditioned guilt of the worker himself. And since the type of cancellation has a particular effect on the length of the cancellation period, the proposed amendment would remove all those misunderstandings, and would uniquely address workers' rights if such cases occurred, and knowing the case-laws they were not a rarity so far. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43892	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43893	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43894	It becomes an integral part of the law. 26. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43895	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43896	It becomes an integral part of the law. 27. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43897	The government doesn't accept. By way of derogation from Article 6(1)(b) of Directive 88/03, the Institute of Working Time Schedules shall comply with the provisions of Article 6(1)(b) of Directive 88 of the European Parliament and of the Council. In the national law, the institute is further restricted to work only organised in shifts. For these reasons, the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43898	Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43899	We suggest that paragraph 3 be deleted in Article 46 which speaks of average working time, which would actually increase legal uncertainty for workers. It would have consequences on workers' health, because it could work for an average of 40 hours in four months, which means that in some months it could work a lot longer, so we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43900	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 28th Amendment of MP Dragutin Lesar was consummated with the previous amendment. 29th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43901	The government does not accept for the same reasons as the previous amendment, i.e. full compliance with the relevant Directive 88 of 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43902	SDP's club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, 29th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43903	We suggest that paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 be deleted in Article 47, as they are introduced so-called “the Feast of the World. ” The institute... outa, or exceptions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, there are objections in the European Union about this institute and there is no agreement between the European Parliament and the European Commission. In other words, if we left this provision, Croatia would be among the few countries that have this institute. At the same time, leaving the institute would regulate work for more than 48 hours, which would directly please employers to the harm of workers. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43904	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 30th Representative of Dragutin Lesar and consumed through this amendment 29, which has been rejected, which is completely identical. 31. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43905	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43906	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 32nd Representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43907	The government doesn't accept. I refer to Article 7 of the relevant '92 Directives. years and her demands.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43908	There's no representative. We should vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 33rd representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43909	The government does not accept for the same reasons as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43910	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very short. My amendment referred to the Law on Labour as an absolute ban on working nights for pregnant women and women who breast-feed children. With the possible exception only if the doctor assesses that nighttime work will not harm her and the child's health. For some of the same reasons, the government does not accept the amendment. You remember the debate in this Assembly on the most intelligent policy and dramatic warnings that the number of inhabitants and the number of newborn children in Croatia is falling. What measures did you propose, action programmes, what kind of... working on the subject, and now in the Labour Act, you're eradicating an absolute ban on working nights for pregnant women and mothers whom the child, I'm going to tell them to get pregnant, let them get pregnant, let them breast-feed the child, because it's healthy said the Minister of Health, but you'll work at night if the employer so decides. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With what explanation? Same as before. Has anyone figured out with what explanation of the Croatian woman, the worker? Do you understand why you will now have to work at night when you are pregnant, when you are breast-feeding a child? This is the alignment of the tobacco with the legal acquis of the European Union, is thus a reasoned amendment to this law. It's not like that. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43912	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 34. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43913	The government doesn't accept. The statement of the proposed Article 49 is fully in line with two relevant Directives, including the number 885 of '92. In 2003, and 88 of 2003, it received a positive opinion from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43914	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43915	We are calling here on the International Labour Organisation Convention, which says that because of the nature of night work, special measures should be taken for night workers to protect their health, help them to carry out family and social obligations. We also call for the protection of a single parent that the 18 years of a child’s life in accordance with our legal obligations of parents to care for children until their age, and also in the proposed paragraph 4, a new paragraph 4 would actually be fully incorporated into the provision of Article 9 of Directive 94/33 on the protection of young workers. So it's about single parents with children up to the age of 18, and underage workers who should actually be assured at night that they don't work except with special consent. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43916	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 35th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43917	The government doesn't accept. The proposed amendment is directly contrary to the definition... the work referred to in Directive 88 of 2003. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43918	Who's in favour of this amendment? You said yes. Yeah, okay. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 36. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43919	The government doesn't accept. We implemented Article 17(2) and paragraph 3 of Directive 88 of 2003, in full content and scope, directly in the statement of this article of the Law proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43920	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43921	We believe that this provision from the exemption from the day-to-day vacation in seasonal affairs is actually too high, and contrary to Article 17 of that directive, as stated by the State Secretary. Because actually, this deviation is only possible by regulating through lists, through collective agreements. However, Article 3 of the proposed law can, in fact, in a certain way, the employer in any case make an exception to the daily or weekly rest. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43922	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 37th identical to this previous one, so it's consummated, so we won't vote on it. 38. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43923	The government doesn't accept. The statement of the current proposal of Article 55 has been fully assessed in line with the relevant Directive 88 of 2003 in full content and scope.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43924	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43925	By amending Article 55, we are in fact introducing criteria and criteria for determining the length of the annual vacation, and then directly applying the provisions of Directive 2003/88. in the case that, following the application and the criteria for determining the length of the annual vacation, no four-year vacation would be reached. It should therefore be noted that for certain jobs there are also difficult working conditions which should actually affect the length of the vacation. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43926	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 39. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43927	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43928	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 40th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43929	The government doesn't accept. I refer to Article 56(1) of the Law and to the regulation of the duration of the annual leave through the number of working days of this provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43930	Who's in favour of this amendment? Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43931	Well, I'm giving up on my own before the rule is said, because the chairman's giving up on the Rules of Procedure, but good. One big news gift to the Croatian Workers was that the annual vacation will last for 4 weeks, the part is accurate. However, the government did not give any further explanation that this depends on how many workers a week are working. I have made an amendment that the number of days that counts for annual holidays depends on how the working time of workers is allocated. So without my amendment, workers who work six days a week and not five will have a two-day vacation shorter than those who work five days a week. The government and the proposal do not accept that, regardless of the number of working days in the week in which the employer schedules their working hours would have the same length of their vacation. I don't understand why, out of reason, I couldn't really understand it, especially because the annual vacation established in weeks, without the definition of the vacation days, really leads to an unequal position in front of a worker's law that has not put itself in an unfavourable position. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43932	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 41. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43933	The government does not accept for the same reasons, and I refer to the necessity of regulating the duration of the annual leave on the number of working days arranged precisely for this provision which is proposed to be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43934	She's a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43935	Since no amendment to Article 55 has been accepted, then this becomes groundless, so we withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43936	Thank you. 41st Retired. 42nd representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43937	The government does not accept, it is a matter governed by the regulation, the Law on Same-Sex Communities, a roof law that allows for the withdrawal of all rights and obligations and for same-sex communities under other laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43938	Representative Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43939	Thank you very much. Unlike the first amendment to this one, I've been given some sort of explanation, and it seems that this hour the government has remembered how to defend this argument. Unfortunately, that's not worth it. The fact that in one law in the Republic of Croatia, something is written, if it does not say in the Law which treats a specific, or substance that it is not implemented, since one group of people is being discriminated here, I am not sure that this Constitution, as well as some other issues, will go through in the Constitutional Court. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43940	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 43rd also representing Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43941	The government does not accept, namely the proposal for this article is not about the provisional conclusion of the agreement but about the offer of permanent solutions for workers and that is the purpose of the proposed norm, for this reason the Government does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43942	Who's in favour of this amendment? You explained no? Excuse me, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43943	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the intention of this amendment has actually been to protect women, or pregnant women. Among other things, the most common question is when to meet when to go to work, that the employer is asking if she is pregnant. And that's also when she stays pregnant and works to keep her job at work. I'm surprised the government didn't accept this amendment because it's discriminatory. A solution to the existing law, and this should have been amended. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43944	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 44th Representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43945	The government does not accept with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43946	Representative Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43947	I am surprised because de facto you did not accept this amendment by the employer made a doctor, because the amendment intended to prevent women from being silenced from work without medical consent or getting fired, which is unfortunately the practice in Croatia and I ask the vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43948	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 45th also representing Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43949	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43950	Given the core reasoning, I'd like to ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43951	Who's in favour of this amendment? This amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43952	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43953	Amendment 45 has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. 46. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43954	Therefore, for the same reasons that were mentioned earlier, in addition to some of the proposals for an amendment to Article 79, it is also not the subject of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, for this reason, for the intensification that this proposal reflects only the changes that are necessary, in order to comply with the legislation, the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43955	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43956	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43957	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 47th Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43958	The Government does not accept this amendment, thanks, of course, to the amendment proposal, I would like to stress that this provision of Article 84 is a harmonised proposal for social partners to ensure and implement in practice and to respect the fact that an agreement has been reached between trade unions and employers on the provision of Article 84. The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43959	Councilman Dragutin Lesar please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43960	I'm sorry, I didn't hear whether the government was accepting or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43961	He doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43962	I'm sorry, you're kind of shy of saying that. So as my amendment reads, wages are paid in periods that may not be longer than a month. I wanted there to be a provision in the Labour Act that obliges employers that the accounting period in which workers have to pay their wages cannot be longer than a month. The government says it does not accept this, but that in the Labour Act there is a tempered version of the social partners. What does that mean? That even in compliance with the legal acquis of the European Union in Croatia, we will not have a maximum period of work for which the employer must pay the salary. The existing provision of Article 84 is not sufficient and is not sufficient to ensure that the billing of wages will not be for a period of more than one month. The refusal of this amendment actually accepts the practice in Croatia that 60,000 workers who work and do not receive wages, this non-receivable salary is exactly according to the Labour Act. It's a message from a proposal like this. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43963	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 48th SDP representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43964	The government does not accept specific regulations governing the area of pension insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43965	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43966	In Article 104, paragraph 3 is proposed to delete, which speaks of the termination of work contracts with 65 years of life and 15 years of retirement. It is now possible to extend work activity for up to 70 years in certain activities under special regulations. We believe that the flexibility of work will actually lead to a change in the upper limit of life until it can work and should not be limited by law. I'm proposing a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43967	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 49th same club of SDP representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43968	The government does not accept Article 107 of the Law, so its norm is not the subject of harmonisation with the EU acquis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43969	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43970	We do not adopt amendments to the law and additions to work, we adopt a new Labour Act and it is possible to intervene in every article of the law regardless of whether it is in line with European legislation or not. Therefore, we suggest that in Article 107, paragraph 7 at the end of the sentence, the point is deleted and the words are added, otherwise the employer’s decision to cancel will be considered to be irrelevant. It is, in fact, a regular cancellation of the Labour Contract if other workers are involved at the same time in these jobs. We believe that in the present state, when we have a low employment rate, it should not be possible for employers to hire other workers or use overtime, while canceling work contracts. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43971	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 50th legislator of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43972	The government does not accept for the same reasons as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43973	Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43974	So the norm is that the written termination of the labor contract is given to the person to whom it is cancelled. This in some ways implies unity and in some ways states that only the worker is cancelled although Article 110 says that the job contract must be cancelled and the employer and employer must be given to the worker. I expected that, despite the fact that you did not accept this improvement in the text, you would be in the spirit of this law, or that you would change this same article of the law. In the spirit of this law, there are no persons, there are employers and workers, and only an employer or worker can be cancelled. Therefore, the written termination of the labour contract should be given to the worker, i.e. the employer and the finished story. Then everything would be clear. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43975	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 51st SDP representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43976	The government doesn't accept. Namely, the proposed amendment contains a procedural provision and this with... the time limit for the court to make its decision within 30 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given the material and legal provisions of the Labour Act, the government does not accept such a formulated amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43977	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43978	In view of the long-term duration of proceedings relating to work disputes, this Appendix 2 to Article 116 sets out the deadline when the court is obliged to make a decision within 30 days. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43979	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 52nd of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43980	So the government does not accept the provision of Article 119, as stated before for some other proposals, is not the subject of harmonisation of the law with the acquis of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43981	He doesn't accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43982	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43983	Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43984	It is an article 119 that regulates severance payments when the workers are fired. We propose that in large companies severance should not be agreed at less than one half of the average monthly salary, the salary paid by the worker within 3 months. Unlike the basic severance of one-third of the average salary. So in large companies, it couldn't be less than half. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43985	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 53rd Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43986	The government doesn't accept. By virtue of Article 121, it has received a positive assessment of the level of compliance with Directive 59/98. years in the content and scope of the provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43987	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43988	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43989	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 54th Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43990	The government doesn't accept. We refer to regulations in the area of pension insurance carried out by the proposed institute in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43991	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn 54. 55th Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43992	The government does not accept...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43993	Yes, amendment withdrawn 54. What's the matter? Mr. Kunst?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43994	Well, I don't have to say that otherwise, as far as pensions are concerned, it's been working for 20 years and there are certain solutions in collective agreements, so I don't insist on voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43995	You're withdrawing the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43996	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43997	Amendment 55 withdrawn. Representative Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43998	Mr. Vice President, this really isn't right that the government refused and it's not right that Mr. Kunst pulled this off. It's a social product that's been around for 18 years. I don't think this is right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u43999	You can't do that, be kind you can't comment on it. You know you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44000	But I mean, I'm protesting. This isn't right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44001	There's no protesting. 56th Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44002	The government doesn't accept. In fact, the existing institute in the applicable law was not assessed as inconsistencies and there are a number of nootechnic reasons why this amendment could not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44003	In fact, the European Union does not know the rules on work and this is not the choice of workers' rights in the European Union. There's talk of collective bargaining. We believe that higher emphasis should be given to collective bargaining and less regulation of labour rules. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44004	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 57th was consummated. Amendment 58.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44005	The government doesn't accept. The European Commission assessed the positive, i.e. the harmonised Article 129 in the current content.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44006	Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44007	That's no reason. You could have said the same thing today was Wednesday, and that would be an adequate explanation for a amendment like this. This norm, if it did not delete what we are asking for by amendment, would be counter-constitutional to this whole law on its own norm, and we are already pointing to the counter-constitution of the existing norm that needs to be deleted, because we will also require a constitutional court reaction and thus support the already increased set of requirements there, which lie in the waterways of our constitutional and legal reality. In fact, we suggest that we delete this stated norm, because instead of strengthening the protection of workers' rights and numerous cases that have been dragging on our own and now international courts for years, you, in this way, set even the pre-exclusive deadlines in which the worker must address the employer, is not visible in any way. So it's an institute that's going to be massively abused by employers, and that's how you're going to make it impossible for a worker to even seek judicial protection. So with what right do you deny the right of the worker the opportunity to address the court? Is this in preparation and judicial reform in the opening of the judiciary primarily to protect workers' rights. I repeat again, therefore, such institutes as you have introduced are very short deadlines, and on the other hand, the long-term length of court proceedings are tolerated, although the last and the last amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure are regulated by deadlines in which a court order must be adopted on the protection of the rights of workers, but no one reacts to it. And he's practically instructive, and these are your pre-plugs because the worker in 8, 15 days if he doesn't turn or be seduced by the employer, that he will respect his remarks later would be played out and disabled to protect his rights in court. Think about this one more time. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44008	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 59th representative of Dragutin Lesar. Consumed, sorry. We don't have to discuss it. 60. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44009	Today is indeed Wednesday, and the proposed amendment is indeed summarised in Article 5 of the Law, or in the proposed norm. For this reason, the Government does not accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44010	Here you go. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44011	Here the Government has shown this to the protection of any notion of worker dignity, regardless of what certain norms in its total are in some way incorporated in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, but the protection of the dignity of workers' rights must be found in this law where it is precise, where it is precisely the place of total its protection. But as apparently the government is protecting the workers' rights to the last hole in the play, and now you're shutting down that player. I ask all of us here to reconsider and declare this amendment to the SDP Representatives' Club. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44012	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 61. SDFP's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44013	The government doesn't accept. The existing proposal for Article 133 has received a positive assessment of compliance with Directive 23 of 2001 and the proposed amendment has a significant impact on the content of the existing standard of vis-à-vis the higher acquis which has been taken over.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44014	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44015	Well, here's what we wanted to do with our kindness to help the government, and ultimately, we wanted to protect the workers from various interpretations. And this amendment goes exactly that way in the direction and direction of consistency and transparency of the text itself. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44016	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 62nd also SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44017	The government does not accept for the same reasons as the previous explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44018	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević 62, i.e. who [[I'll get on with it.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44020	So, Mr. Vice President. Did I understand that the amendment was not accepted? It's not accepted, as I believe everyone else in the mind of co-decision. This will show the real mood of the government to its workers. This is about an amendment that speaks of workers employed by employers who employ at least 5, not as the government says 20 workers have the right to co-decision through the work of working councils and trade unions. The fact is that over 80% of legal persons, i.e. employers, employ less than 10 workers, this argument did not work today, and the fact is that in Germany it is a common practice that with at least 5 workers the working councils function. Secondly, in that amendment, we have also proposed that the right of employees in the state administration to co-decision be established. Why rule them out and on what basis, we got no reason. So they are placed in a more unfavourable position, which is unfair and illegal. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44021	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 63rd also of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44022	The government doesn't accept. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44023	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44024	But it's not even a surplus that's inadmissible. That surplus is needed. But the government has no understanding of our proposal, which consists of the fact that the number of members of the working council is determined according to the number of employees of the employer in such a way that at least 5 employees of employers have the right to co-determination and work of the working council, and the Government proposes 20th and all other criteria are disturbed because the government cannot accept that most employees are employed by so-called workers. small employers can make decisions at all. So, by a larger number, you want to reduce the influence of unions and workers in decision making, and we want to increase that impact by a smaller number. And that's where we differ, I just don't know why you're doing it. Why don't you let the workers decide who bothers? Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44025	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 64th representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44026	The government doesn't accept. In fact, we have a provision once again, I would refer to the Law on Equal Communities, the Probative Law, which gives to same-sex communities or partners in same-sex communities and allows and allows in all rights and obligations to withdraw these rights and obligations, as regards this law, as well as all other laws where family members, family members, or where we are in a situation where we have same-sex communities, same-sex partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44027	Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44028	Thank you very much. If that were the case. Regrettably, the current Labour Law also referred to provisions if they applied to the Law on the Isexpanded Communities. Unfortunately, in practice, something is quite different. I don't know if you know what kind of torture and abuse homosexuals go through in their workplaces when it's discovered that they're homosexuals and that's why they need to give extra protection and provide extra protection because they're a vulnerable minority. I must admit that I don't understand this government's fear of mentioning in laws, not just in this, in a series of other laws, same-sex partners, homosexuals because there would be another big argument here. We could call for several more European Union directives. Unfortunately, it does not go or go very hard without talking about how much adopting these few amendments of this type that I have given actually contributed to reducing homophobia in Croatia, which is very large. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44029	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 65th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44030	The government doesn't accept. Article 142 of the law proposal is not at this stage the subject of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44031	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44032	Very interesting. So, it's a list of candidates for the selection of workers' representatives, for example, in the working council. It says here in Article 146, so all members of the government are not from anyone else. He says this in Article 146(1): "If one representative is elected, the candidate who received the largest number of votes of the workers who voted." And then you have in 142: "Every candidate list must have as many candidates as the employee's representatives are elected." Please, so don't you need the European Union and where it is a restriction from the European Union to be more candidates to elect members of the working council. Nowhere. And you're saying it's not the subject of coordination, but it may be the object of non-compliance with them, but of us because otherwise we have more candidates everywhere. And then what kind of democratic decision it is if we keep those standards. And one more thing. There will be poor application in practice of these two articles because they are mutually exclusive. Therefore, there is no reason why you did not accept the amendment and thus facilitated life in the decision-making process in a secret way by representatives of workers in co-decision in a particular company. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44033	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 66th and Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44034	The government does not accept with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44035	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44036	So, what are we proposing here by amendment? That information on the elections carried out for the working council is delivered not only to the employer and the union but also to the county office responsible for the work. Why does that bother us? In fact, we have these working councils that have been working for a few years, and it's very bad, but where they work, they'd need to be strengthened and we're weakening here because we're not giving any room to strengthen their role. So today, we still don't have the data and information on the work of the working councils how many have been selected, where employers, how many members they have, etc. So how will we monitor the work of the working councils in the Republic of Croatia when we do not even allow the simple information on the selection of members of the working council in a company to be delivered to the competent county office so that it can be united in the county and at the state level. There's no reason you didn't accept this amendment. But that's the problem you normally have that you don't want to help a worker. Thank you. Voting please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44037	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 67th and Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44038	The government does not accept with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44039	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44040	Therefore, this is about the obligation of the employer to report in writing to the Working Council on the issues for which there is a notification obligation because it is very difficult in practice to prove that there has been any reporting. And here we have also proposed to complete a list of cases where there must be a notification obligation such as human resources management policy, vocational education and training as well as results carried out by inspection supervision in relation to work and protection at work. So, neither here do I see a word of co-decision. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44041	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 68th and SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44042	The government doesn't accept. Article 149 of the Law in its content and scope is assessed in full compliance with Directive 14 of 2002.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44043	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44044	It is also the form of co-decision of workers that consults the working council before the employer makes a decision. We propose to establish the employer's obligation to provide data relevant to the decision-making body in writing, which is important for the position of workers, and we propose to delete the subparagraph in paragraph 2 which determines the employer's obligation to consult the working council in the adoption of the labour rules because we hold that the adoption of the labour rules should become a co-decision obligation, which means, without the prior consent of the worker's representatives, there are no labour regulations and that is why we have proposed, you will see in the second amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44045	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 69. The Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44046	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44047	It becomes an integral part of the law. 70. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44048	The government doesn't accept. The European Commission's positive opinion is higher than that of Directive 14 of 2002 on Article 150 in the full content and scope of the existing draft norm.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44049	Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44050	Thank you very much, Vice President. There is no way we can accept the explanation of the government's representatives because I do not know where it is forbidden to seek the previous consent of the working council, so this is the strongest institute in co-decision of workers, not to introduce additional categories of workers who would be protected from firing. Therefore, we suggest that the additional protection of a single parent's life up to the age of 8, as well as a parent or adoptor with three or more children under the age of 18, or children at regular schooling. These additions focus on strengthening the role of the Workers' Council and on preventing employers' self-will to the detriment of workers. Keep going. We suggest that, as I have already said before, the Labour Council decides with the previous consent of the Working Council, not with regular consultation. We also think that with previous consent decisions should be made on the reasons for the introduction of overtime, the appointment of a person to protect the dignity of workers, the plan of annual holidays, the schedule of working hours and, ultimately, the protection of older workers. It's about protecting the older workers we're proposing here. In fact, we suggest you can't fire a 50-year-old worker, and you're proposing 60 years. So we think that's it, so today a man who loses his job at 50 can find a job. I don't know, I really need a candle to look for him in this country. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44051	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 71, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44052	The Government does not accept Article 153 of the Law at this stage because it does not constitute the subject of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44053	Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44054	Thank you very much. This is about the fact that if the Working Council, as it says here in the bill, uses the opinion of experts to make the right decision because workers do not have lawyers and other experts around them who can help them with the right judgment and decision-making. It is therefore proposed that this goes to the employer's burden, without any agreement or further consent. The government does not accept this for understandable reasons because it cannot protect workers more than less. Thank you. Voting please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44055	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 72, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44056	The government doesn't accept. I refer to specific regulations governing the area of confidentiality of information. By accepting this amendment, they would have a situation of double standardisation both in legal and non-technical terms. Since there are laws governing this matter, the government has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44057	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44058	We thought that as before, it was necessary to regulate the concept of business secrets and this law so that the whole Labour Act had that access to the fact that it was seen what a business secret had to deal with in a way that it did not endanger its rights. That is why we have proposed this amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44059	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 73, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44060	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44061	It becomes an integral part of the law. 74, same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44062	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44063	It becomes an integral part of the law. 75, Club of Representatives...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44064	The government doesn't accept. Article 174 has received a positive assessment of the compliance of the European Commission with Directive 45 '94. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44065	Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44066	Therefore, the basic intensity of this amendment is to simplify the process of appointing representatives to the negotiating committee from the Republic of Croatia in the European Union because it is a matter of the government proposing that only employees can be employed by the employer in that negotiating committee, and we think that union representatives can, if necessary, streamline and reduce costs. And I don't see any reason why that amendment wasn't accepted. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44067	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 76, representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44068	The government does not accept this amendment. Article 174, as well as the earlier amendment proposal, has been assessed positively in line with Directive 45 of '94. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44069	There's no representative of Lesar. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 77, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44070	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44071	It becomes an integral part of the law. 78, representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44072	The government does not accept the amendment. The European Commission's assessment of compliance with the 2001 Directive failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44073	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 79, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44074	The government doesn't accept. We believe that the amendment already exists in Articles 155, 156 and 201 of the Law. For this reason, what is proposed is practically already regulated by the draft law in those three articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44075	Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44076	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's standardized, just not to say that members of the council of workers have the right to education with salary compensation. That doesn't say in any of these articles. So, simply, the councils of workers are left without the help that can be given to them by the employer... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Working council, yeah. Or the council of workers. But I accept it to be a working council, to make it clear to everyone. So I'm asking for a vote because I think it's a rational amendment in favour of the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44077	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 80, Dragutin Lesar's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44078	The government doesn't accept. I am also adding Article 210 of the bill to the earlier explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44079	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 81, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44080	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44081	It becomes an integral part of the law. 82, also the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44082	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44083	It becomes an integral part of the law. 83, agent Boris Kunst. ... Amendment 83 withdrawn. 84, Club of Representatives of the SDP. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44084	The government doesn't accept. The norm of Article 290 of the Law at this stage is not the subject of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44085	Representative Marija Lugaric, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44086	Dear Madam Secretary of State, I think it is entirely illogical that we give workers the right to unpaid leave when they participate in the campaign, and by the time they are elected as members of the presidential bodies in local self-government units, we do not give them the right to stay out of work as part of the Institute of Unpaid Leave to attend the meeting of the council they were elected. This is simply not a question of harmonisation of the European Union, as is this previous part of that article, which regulates unpaid leave during the duration of the election campaign. And so far, especially in the smaller environments, we have a situation where employers don't let their workers go to municipal or city council meetings for these or those reasons, mostly political reasons because they don't like it, because the worker is in the opposite party but an employer, and maybe we have a 5-5-1 or 6-5 in the Council. It is simply illogical that in the law of the existing and on your proposal we have a leave for the campaign, and we do not have leave for selected local doctors. So please vote. I hope you change your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44087	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 85, representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44088	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44089	It becomes an integral part of the law. Therefore, the candidate for the President of the Republic of Croatia has the right to an unpaid leave of up to 20 working days during the duration of the election campaign. Candidates, when this law is passed. 86. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44090	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44091	It becomes an integral part of the law. 87. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44092	The Government shall, in part, accept this in the part relating to subparagraph 4. So, in subparagraph 4. behind the word "if on occasion" under quotes, the words "choice procedures for the job candidate" are added (conversation, testing, surveying, etc.) and so on."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44093	That's pretty clear. Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44094	You have indeed accepted the amendment in part. I think that's the part, but I need to see if I can tell if I agree with that. But I believe that what you read is one part, but that essential part of the amendment. This is about the fact that because there are frequent abuses of employers in the use of work at a certain time in a way that violates the Labour Act when the institute is applied, and given the poor situation in the judiciary that makes it impossible for workers to quickly and quality way of protecting their labour rights from working relations, we suggest that this infringement, which is qualified in your proposal as a serious offence, is punishable by the employer from 31 to 60,000 kuna. We suggest that it be transferred, so when the employer abuses the legal right to regulate the working relationship at a specified time to punish himself with the smallest, with a penalty of 61 to 100,000 kuna. That means it's the most serious violation of this law. And I'm sorry you didn't accept that, because why you're protecting employers with a smaller sentence, why don't you get a bigger sentence when they're often breaking the Labour Law institute for a certain time. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44095	So, for the unaccepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44096	Yeah, for this first part, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44097	For the first part, who's for that part of the amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Part two is accepted. 88th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44098	The government doesn't accept. Namely, the offence of the employer and, with the consent of all the social partners, it has been transferred to the category of serious offences, and this amendment is not accepted for this reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44099	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44100	It is a violation of employers when, by law and collective agreement, contracts on work are concluded for a certain period of time. It's by the definition of the government, and apparently parts of the social partners tend, not a serious offense. Which is an even more serious offense, the employer may make except for the abuse of the institute, whether or not, and after the refusal of that amendment on compulsory payouts. Yeah, the hardest one is probably this one that doesn't pay at all. But neither is it sanctioned in Croatia nor as a criminal offence, I don't know if it's like a crime. I will request a vote on this amendment. He probably won't get the required majority, and I'm not calling this law the Labour Act anymore, I'm calling it the Slaves Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44101	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 89th Representative Boris Kunst. Retracted. 90. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44102	The government does not accept this amendment. Neither have the proposed amendments concerning the provisions resulting from the infringement provisions, so legally, the nomotechnical government is not able to accept this amendment either.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44103	Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44104	That was Amendment 90? You don't accept, I didn't hear. Thank you very much. So the explanation concerns that previous amendment that I just explained. The government therefore does not agree that employers seek fines, so that penalties from at least 61000 kuna to 100000 for a violation committed by an employer when he abuses his position on the labour market in such a way as not to comply with Article 10 which regulates the contract of employment at a specified time. I'm sorry the government didn't accept it from all this chapter on working together. It is evident that the government does not care about workers and their position and their better position in society. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44105	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 91st representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44106	The Government shall not accept with the same explanation as with the amendment to Article 88. So, with the consent of the social partners, the delinquent liability of the employer has been transferred from easier to more serious violations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44107	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44108	Final comment. I also expect the Government's proposal that employers who pass the law are employed on a specific basis, who do not pay salaries within a month for the past calendar month, who force and force pregnant women and mothers who are breast-feeding to work at night instead of infractions or possibly criminal acts to propose them for the greatest state-of-the-art traits that can be awarded in Croatia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44109	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The last amendment of the Legislative Committee was also last amended. The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44112	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44113	He accepts. It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, in line with what I said at the beginning of the debate on amendments, and on the SDSS Clubs' proposal and National Minority Representatives' Club for additional government consultations with these clubs and, in general, for additional consultations on this proposal, the final draft labour law is being postponed and will be continued on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44114	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we will proceed with our work. And we will vote on the final draft of the Labour Act. Let's please get on board and see how we stand with the quorum. Let's get on with it. Please check if you light up in the right place. Let's see what's going on. We have 82 present, although we seem to have more, but that's enough to decide. And we move on to the Final Proposal of the Labour Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 461. The debate is closed. We held a statement on the amendments at a session held on Wednesday (December 2nd 2009, after the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendment? Please raise your hands. Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Unanimity. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment. Mr. Djuro Popioac, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44115	Thank you. Mr. President, Your Honor, Honorable MPs and MPs. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia from yesterday's session points to the Croatian Assembly of Amendments to Article 49(1). Proposal for a Labour Act with the final draft law of the following content. In Article 49(1), the employer shall not determine the nighttime work of pregnant women unless the pregnant woman asks for such work, and if the authorised physician has assessed that nighttime work does not endanger her life or health, i.e. the child’s life or health. Therefore, this is in line with the understanding of the intensity of your requests and discussions carried out on the proposed text of the law and on the proposed amendments. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has tried in the best interest, therefore, but also in the context of the European Commission Directive to make this shift in order to further sensitivity towards this subject. I therefore propose that this amendment be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44116	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. In the name of the club, is that right, Madam Representative Milanka Opačić? Here you go. You can do it here if you want on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44117	On behalf of the SDP Club, I must say that we would be far more pleased that Mr. Minister, in good faith, as you said in your best intention in terms of adopting this amendment, you have brought some other amendments here today before the Croatian Parliament. A few days ago you had a chance here through almost a hundred amendments to significantly repair the law, to adopt some of our proposals that were here. I'm afraid you've all given it all up neatly. You came here today with a single amendment, which, of course, can be welcomed in its contents because it was our proposal. Unfortunately, however, this amendment can be called an alibi by amendment. This is not an amendment that goes to a major revision of the Labour Act. This is an amendment that only gives an opportunity to some who are here in some way rebelled against voting for the Labour Act today, because you need 77 hands for it. It's not fair to the workers. The Alibi amendments are good for keeping the peace in the coalition, but the alibi amendments are not good for the workers. This amendment, unfortunately, solves only the problem of one part of the workers, so women pregnant, but all other workers still with the institutions that are in the Labour Law remain completely unprotected in the deleted space, with many open elements that employers re-manufacturing and ousting the Labour Act. We will vote in favour of this amendment, but once again I want to say that this kind of work is not good and this amendment of the law, so with this amendment, will not in any significant way fix the Labour Act. He remains bad for Croatian workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44118	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As for the amendment with which the Government came before the Parliament today regarding the Labour Act, two notes. It is true that when pregnant women are concerned, this amendment accepts a part of those amendments and criticisms and proposals that were made in the debate and amendments that were rejected only two days ago. I welcome that part, and it's good that you've thought about it one more time, no matter what you've been offered. However, this amendment does not cover the part of women who are in the debate and our amendments, and these are mothers of nursing mothers. The argument of the European Commission and their position on such an amendment to the Labour Act, one protection of pregnant women and nursing women, is cynical to me. In fact, in the European Union, Germany does not work at night by Germans, but by foreigners. In France, French women do not work at night, but foreigners, as in Scandinavian states. Our workers work at night, and we have a standard that they overcome 40, 50 years ago, and the problems have been resolved today, because of some of the interests of which they impose on Croatia. What I wanted to ask Mr. Minister is whether our negotiators on this topic have at least tried to fight the exception and Croatia's right to have something in their working legislation that corresponds to the interest of Croatian workers. Many countries received exceptions in the negotiations. Many of the current Member States were allowed by the European Commission to install on its national laws what is a matter of the tradition of specificity, and Croatia has this specificity that it has a major problem with birth. This is not only my claim but also the position of the government, so if this argument of the birth of the danger and the number of newborn children falls for years is not enough, then I do not understand what negotiations with the European Commission at all. I will support this amendment with 50% will, because the other part is not, but I do ask you for an answer, as part of negotiations and agreement with the European Commission, whether the specificity of Croatia, the talent, the decline of the number of newborn children is or is not an argument on the table of Croatian negotiators.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44120	Thank you. Namely, only clubs discussed this proposed amendment under the Rules of Procedure. Well, in this case, but we didn't diminish democracy, we increased when we gave. Are there any other club representatives who would like to make a statement? There isn't. I hereby conclude the debate and vote on the amendments to the Government which you have heard the reasons of the Minister of the Pope. Let's please get involved and vote on the amendment to the government. Score. The government's amendment was accepted by the majority of 104 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft labour law. What? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44121	I'm asking you nicely to pause for the club for 10 minutes, so we can agree on how to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44122	All right. I'm setting a break by 10 o'clock. Five to ten, we keep working. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Please, Mrs. Milanka Opačić, would you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44124	Here after the request for a break for the club I would just like to say on behalf of the SDP Club some more views that are also related to our decision on today's vote on the Labour Act. When I spoke about the amendment to the Government, I already delivered the opinion of the SDP Club, which is that the amendment is not changing the important things in the Labour Act that protect and can protect additional workers. I would primarily like to draw attention to the contract institute at a certain time where 85% of the contracts in Croatia are contracts for a certain time. Unfortunately, in a situation where workers are given every two or three months. The extension of the labour contract is definitely people left in the deleted space and that category of people that is extremely numerous cannot afford either loans or any security that is important. There are often conversations here about national population policy and that we want to help the Croatian family. If we wanted to, then we should have regulated this institute differently, if nothing else, then at least listen to our proposal, which is that instead of 3 years, we can set the contract for a year so that at least we have such minimal safety of workers and workers who unfortunately cannot get a job but temporarily, so on a contract for a certain time. Unfortunately, you have not accepted this and still remains an institute that fully violates workers' rights and puts a large number of workers in a situation that has no security whatsoever. Secondly, the Labour Cooperation Institute where there were over 20 and some amendments that are extremely important, which work very well in all EU countries and solves a number of problems between employers and workers, gives workers an opportunity to decide, i.e. co-decision on their rights and working conditions. Unfortunately, you didn't want to accept anything from all that. The Institute of Average Working Time, which has also not touched anywhere with any changes, unfortunately opens up space for new manipulations by employers and for a new violation of the rights of workers. On the other hand, no severance institutes were accepted, which could also have been a certain protection mechanism for workers, and we have a disputed institute by which the employer can unilaterally decide on the exemption and extend the working time to 60 hours. Not to say that this kind of labour law will be even worse because we didn't do anything to form working courts or at least work dispute departments. The labour inspection is quite ineffective, more than 60% of cases in criminal courts or falling into obsolescence or the rest gets the least possible sentence. Therefore, it does not act in any way with certain sanctions against employers who violate the rights of workers. Unfortunately, under this law, certain provisions will make workers work more, and less will be paid. Since this ceases to be the Labour Act and becomes more and more an anti-work law, the SDP will not participate in the vote on the Labour Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-27-0.u44125	Thank you. Let's determine the quorum, gentlemen. Please, let's get involved. The result? Please, let's see if we have a result here. Please control who didn't turn on, always make sure you red there you want. All right, let's see the score? 77 present. I am voting on the final proposal of the Labour Act, please include and vote. Check it out. The result? I find that most of the vote is 79 for, no abstentions and 2 against the adoption of the final proposal of the Labour Act. Thank you very much.
