ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28908	Thank you, Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on employment mediation and unemployment rights should, in fact, be seen in the continuity of the law that we have already discussed and which were related to the policy of the state budget. And this set of laws that are now on the agenda is actually a package of anti-recession measures that our club is proposing. In particular, we propose concrete amendments in Article 42 in a way that changes the item 1 and that instead of a 70 % cash fee for the unemployed, 180 days are paid instead of 90 days. In Article 44, the following amendments: to increase income for those who remain unemployed from 1 November 2008 to 1 November 2009 for a working period of 9 months to 2 years from 90 days to 180 days, for a working period of more than two years from 120 to 360 days and for a working period of more than 10 years from 360 to 450 days. Why do we propose that? Because in the crisis of 2009, we believe that short- and long-term crisis management measures should be taken in two segments or two areas. One of the measures we are proposing is directed towards the economy and other measures must be in the short term, so in those year-on-year population-oriented. In particular, when it comes to the global financial and economic crisis, it has long been denied that the crisis in such intensity will also be reflected in Croatia. The truth that the financial crisis has not affected Croatia to this extent, but we have often said from this pay phone that the economic crisis will not only reflect the global global crisis in Croatia but also the system crisis because the reforms in Croatia, unfortunately, have not done anything. We have a significant drop in industrial production in the last year. So, domestic production is getting smaller, imports are increasing. We have an increasing negative trade balance, including a negative balance of payments, which significantly burdens the domestic economy. According to the latest data, the social gross product in the third quarter has dropped to only 1.6% with a fall week by the end of the year and the estimates for this year are such that no one actually dares to predict because from month to month these forecasts are increasingly negative. When I said that we had come out with a package of measures to combat recession and crisis, then we should say that we have proposed 25 different measures that are facing the economy and the population. When we talk about this law, it should also come from certain data that unemployment in Croatia is growing as well as statistics. We grew by 5.8% in just one month, so in January compared to December. In this, even newly registered employment services increased by 26.5% and inflows to the employment office in that month were 26 thousand 408 people. There was a significant increase in cash compensation users only in one month by 4.5% and in January this fee was received by 67,000 638 registered at the Employment Office. It is also interesting that this graph was published by the Croatian Employment Service where we see that just as of 11 months, there is a significant increase in the amount of people who receive compensation in the Employment Office, and that is precisely because these are the months when the inflows are higher inflows of the unemployed to the employment office. Overall, the forecasts in the 2009 economy are not good, they are not good in industrial production, especially in the processing industry, especially in textiles, wood and clothing, where the highest drop in employment is expected. A similar situation is not good and the situation is not good in the tourism economy, a significant decline in tourist nights is expected, which will again significantly reduce foreign exchange revenues and increase the balance of payments deficit. Croatia as a social state must take care of its citizens especially of citizens who will lose their jobs during this period. And perhaps just for a little while more, let me refer to the government's opinion, which is one way or another, so I would say by a nonsocial approach, it refuses to accept the proposal of this law. Among other things, she says that this should provide more resources than we anticipated here. We predicted that in a year without a job, 25 thousand people would now be employed, but it is obvious that according to these data she presented in her opinion, the government is actually counting on a much larger number of unemployed, not to count on keeping it or opening new jobs. We think that this view of the government is actually only about its social insensitivity and concern for citizens on behalf of whom it should actually ensure both their standard of living and all other forms of social and political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28909	Thank you. Does the government want a representative? Yeah. State Secretary, Ms. Ivana Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28910	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would just like to emphasise why the government does not actually accept this proposal for a law amending the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights at the time of unemployment. What is important in this proposal is that an extension is actually proposed for the unemployed who received the status, so from 1 November 2008 to 1 November 2009, and this is therefore very targeted only for then a certain group of people in that period who are unemployed. However, as early as 2008, the government strongly considered the status of unemployed persons and proposed amendments to laws that have actually improved the status of unemployed persons since 1.1.2009, when the compensation of 1200 was then increased to 70% of the salary in the last three months, so before the unemployment status of three months, then in the coming months 50% of the salary. So the government takes good care of the social groups of the population, so it takes care of the unemployed, the families, it has a whole set of measures that are aimed right at the social part and have a very clear social dimension in the budget. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28911	Thank you. Do they want representatives of the working bodies? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, President of the Committee, Mr Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28912	Honorable President, Government representatives, fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership at the 19th session held on 12 March 2009 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during the unemployment of the first reading, P.Z. No. 253, which was delivered to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives Club with an act of 28 January this year. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 75. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee held the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on that act. The opening statement was submitted by the applicant's representative, Mrs Gordana Sobol. She pointed out that this bill was only one in a series of so-called so-called laws. The anti-recession package referred to in the parliamentary procedure. Most board members agree with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which does not support the adoption of this law. The proposed draft Law amending the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act would extend the period of use of the cash compensation to unemployed persons at 70 % of the basis from the current 90 days to 180 days. Furthermore, for an unemployed person who spent from 9 months to 2 years of cash compensation would last 180 days instead of 90 days under the current law. Then, for the unemployed person who spent more than 2 years working, and less than 10 years of cash compensation would last 360 days instead of the current 120 to 330 days. While for the unemployed person who spent more than 10 years working, the cash compensation would last 450 days instead of the current 360 days. The opinion was also given to support this bill since there is a problem in the Republic of Croatia with long-term unemployment that is conditional, except for general and economic opportunities, in part and in the low educational structure of the unemployed. The debate also stated that the Croatian Employment Service should strengthen the so-called active measures, encouraging employment measures, education, and passive measures, doubling the time of receipt of the cash compensation proposed by this law will by no means contribute to stimulating unemployed persons to actively engage in job-seeking. Without doubting the social sensitivity of the legislator of this law, it is doubtful from the constitutional and legal aspect of the proposed solution shared by unemployed persons in two groups, i.e. those who have fewer rights because their employment relationship ceased before 1.11.2008 and those who have greater rights because their employment relationship ceased after 1.11. last year. In the opinion of most board members, such a solution leads to an unequal position and inequality of unemployed persons. Furthermore, the debate noted that this bill would create an additional injustice against employees who receive minimum wage since the length of time and the amount of cash compensation contribute to an unemployed person. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority vote, 7 for and 3 against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: The draft Law amending the Employment Intermediation and Rights Act is not accepted during unemployment, first reading, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28913	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28914	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Government representatives, fellow agents. So the proposed Law amending the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act was proposed by the Social Democratic Party as a result of the great concern over the major economic crisis that has affected the world and the Republic of Croatia. Taking into account forecasts for this year's worse tourist season, all of them expect to extend the larger process of firing workers in companies. In order to implement this law, only 73 million kunas should be calculated, while the Government of the Republic of Croatia warns that around 326 million kunas should be provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is a pity that the legislator was not as imaginative as he did not propose from which sources the government should raise this minimum amount provided for in the event that such a law would be in force. Let's briefly get acquainted with this SDP proposal. They propose to amend the new Employment Intervention and Rights Act, which has been in force for only 2 months, i.e. since 1.1 this year. Then, it is proposed that the amendment of the law be the law within a certain deadline, i.e. It's only worth until the end of this year. The period of validity means this law would be less than 12 months, which normally also raises the content in principle, the quality of the content of this law, because then obviously that quality more and that content would expire. Normally, these measures should be to mitigate the consequences of the economic crisis. It is proposed to increase the length of the right to cash compensation for workers with fewer years of work. That's it. to change the period during which the right is exercised in favour of workers with less training, but also to apply those more favourable rights retroactively. This means for those who lost their job from November 1st to November 1st this year and that the duration of the right to compensation increases from 90 days to 180 days. It's for nine months to two years of internships. Then from 180 to 360, from 360 to 450 days, and now I'm not reading because it's being worked out in the law itself. It means double the period during which the compensation is received at a more favourable amount from the current 90 to 180 days. Now the applicable law to remind you says that 70% of the basis for the first 90 days of application of rights have an unemployed but the highest of 70% of the average salary paid in the Croatian economy in the previous year. And 505 of the basis for the period of application of the right after 90 days until the expiry of the right, but the maximum of 50% of the average salary paid in the Croatian economy for the previous year. The SDP proposal also means 70% of the base not only for the first 90 but 180 days and the rest remains about the same. If this proposal were to be evaluated, the Employment Intermediation Act has already been significantly increased. For example, a worker who received a minimum wage of 2747 kuna in the previous three months is now a minimum wage of 2100 kuna somewhere net salary. The basis for determining the cash fee is 2197 kn. He is charged at the Employment Office 1538 kn for the first 90 days, i.e. 1098 or 1100 kn for the rest of the period. The worker who had an average salary of 5000 kn basis for determining the fee is about 4000 kn and his unemployment fee is 3200 kn for the first 90 days at the Employment Office, i.e. 2000 kn for this remaining period to which he is entitled. The highest amount of cash compensation is now related to the average salary in Croatia in the previous year, so that for this year, and approximately already knows what the average salary will be for this year, means the unemployment fee of around 3600 kn in the Employment Office for the first 90 days, and for the rest of the period 2580 kn for the remaining period. I remind you that this is a significant increase in the amount of cash compensation, because to remind ourselves that by the end of 2008, the fee at the Employment Office was only 1200 kn. If the SDP proposal is accepted and further extended the period during which the already increased amount of compensation is paid, we could be in a position to make the unemployment allowance more profitable for a large number of workers than the pay for those who work. Of course, the Social Democratic Party did not propose from which sources to secure these funds, because they predicted that it was 73 million. I said the government predicted it with 326 million. So the difference is only about 253 million kuna. And a large number of employers believe that we are all aware of that, because we are talking about recession, the crisis today is thinking about cutting wages and cutting hours just to save jobs. I believe that you had the opportunity to listen recently to the thematic session organised by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, and these proposals would actually encourage cancellation. If someone at the Employment Service will receive a fee in the range, it means as an unemployed person from 2200 kn to 3600 kn in time from one year and three months or 450 days as planned, and then he would continue to receive around 2580 kn and it is more profitable than working for a minimum wage of about 2100 kn, and he must work in fact for the whole month for that. In addition to all these proposals, amending and supplementing the law, the constitutionality of the solution offered is at stake because of the inequalities of the unemployed in relation to the law. For example, the SDP suggests that only the unemployed from November 2008 to November 2009 increase the length of the cash compensation right, and that of those unemployed who were around at the end of October there was 230,000 in Croatia. Well, that would have caused a revolution at the employment office, not only at the institution, but in all of Croatia, people would have rebelled which is an injustice done only to these people who are practically out of work in the past year, and all those who have stayed earlier, and I believe that you will agree with me that the person who is out of work, that she needs more material help, social assistance, financial assistance, than the person who is shorter without a job because I guess that's a perfectly clear reason why. So I think it would be a great injustice and if someone were to raise the issue of constitutionality, I think that law would fall, but now the question of how quickly would the Constitutional Court solve it. So I remind you once again, we are not insensitive to social consequences, unemployment and we are aware of economic difficulties, but in a crisis like this, we still need to keep relations that won't encourage going to the employment office instead of keeping jobs. Because of all this I have listed here, and especially because of the trap that many workers could fall into because they would be better off going to the employment office and receiving somewhere from 2,200 to 3,600 or on average 2,500 and some kuna fees for the unemployed than receiving a minimum wage of 2 100 kuna, the Croatian Democratic Community Club cannot accept such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28915	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28916	Thank you very much. It is almost incredible that Mr. Kunst is saying that such a measure would cause dissatisfaction at the employment office, i.e. that helping people who are going to lose their jobs would be the one that would cause the dissatisfaction of other unemployed. The dissatisfaction of other unemployed people does not cause this fact, but that this year, which is recessional and where people remain unemployed, where new jobs are not opened, the dissatisfaction of these people is that they will not be able to get a job, not whether someone will get help for 3 months longer or 6 months longer. I don't think that argument stands, I think you've totally missed it here. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28917	Thank you very much. It's a correction of opinion. Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28918	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to respond to a few of the findings presented by a representative of the HDZ Club. In fact, he says that this law would act retrogradely, which is not true because we referred the law to the procedure in January when he actually laid down a period of 3 months for those to whom the law would apply, so we take the date of October 1st. So far, according to the applicable law, this first fee is received, i.e. the first amount of compensation received for the first 90 days, so by the end of January it would not have expired those 90 days. So the law was in the process in time, the debate moved and that's why these dates don't fit now. You say the SDP shows great concern. Yes, it saddens us that the government does not show such concern. The government only came out a few days ago with a package, called a package of anti-recession measures, 10, I say intent, not measure, because none of these intentions were worked out and was passed into law to measure it. The first thing, the first measure the government proposes is budget rebalance, and you know how long we've been talking about having to rebalance the budget. We also said in the budgeting that this budget is unrealistic, too high and wasteful. And then when you ask where the funds for this purpose will be found, of course, they will be in the state budget because elsewhere they can't be found. It's going to be rebalanced. Unfortunately, the way the government came into the budget rebalancing is not good because it's talking about some kind of savings that actually only reduces the waste that we've been talking about in recent years, and that's not a budget that would be done at the time of the recession, at the time of the decline in production, at the time of high unemployment. We need to be concerned that only in 2 months, so in December of last year and in January of this year, 10,620 people are out of work. The people whose existence is threatened and the fact that they would have received a certain amount of compensation in the office for several months longer should not really be resilient here between us in Parliament. And the government would have to find opportunities to find in such a high budget as it proposed and which was adopted by the majority in Parliament, if it assesses that it takes 300 and a few million kunas to do so. You're saying what the quality of that law is if it's worth one short term, for a year? So we estimate that this year is breakable, that in this year it is necessary to take such measures to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible. This is how you spoke here on behalf of the HDZ club representing most of the government means that the government does not believe that in this year we can take such measures to stop unemployment, which would stop the decline of production and the decline of social gross products, which would increase exports and stop imports. Unfortunately, this data that we are now boasting about having smaller food imports and that we have increased food exports is actually clouding things. It is less imports because companies that are large importers can no longer easily obtain loans that would generate imports. So we are concerned, but we are concerned because the government is not concerned about the state in which Croatia is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28919	Thank you. We've got corrections. First, Madam Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28920	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I am correcting Mrs. Zgrebec's incorrect allegations that a package of anti-recession measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia calls the alleged package of anti-recession measures. Inaccurate Mrs. Zgrebec, precisely because I believe that the anti-recession package has been clearly set up because it has also made such a clear package possible for local self-government units to bring their package, so here, for example, I will say that last week I also brought a package of anti-recession measures, such as reducing the monumental rent, which facilitates the space and life of craftsmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as well as a 10% increase in the rent of business premises, residential spaces owned by the town of Sibenik, as well as an increase in the construction of individual housing with the same money in the double construction for the same contribution, communal contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28921	Thank you. Correction Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28922	Your Honor, I will not correct the assumptions of the government's insensitiveness, there is no need. I'm also not going to make it right that the SDP didn't have any amendments to the budget that are now so critical, but I'm going to correct the incorrect assumption where the MP said that by comparing January 2008 and January this year, that somewhere around 10,000 people were out of work, which is incorrect. You have statistics. I believe we trust statistics. In January 2008, there were 261 thousand 129 unemployed at the Employment Office in January 2009, 254 thousand 299 employees, which is 5.5% lower in this January than in January 2008. That's your statistics. If they're lying, then so am I.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28923	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28924	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, the state treasurer with an associate. Here, at the beginning, let me say a few sentences, which is why the SDP Representatives Club supports this proposal, of course, and why he proposed it. First of all, I consider this proposal necessary because it is a consequence I would say that the Croatian government is not in the position to deal with the situation in which Croatia has entered. It has entered one I would say structural crisis and we have not yet been affected by a little crisis that will occur in the coming months, or something has caught up with us but not in full swing, which will occur and will be spilled from the world markets. First of all, there has been no measure of the anti-recession past six, seven, eight months as they should have been and as the government should have proposed and prepared Croatia and Croatian citizens for the crisis year that awaits us. That's not what happened. Late measures have contributed that the SDP's proposed measure is now necessary. And now I'm gonna say why. And that's where the statistics unquestionably confirm us. When we look at the results and when we look at the crisis that started in Croatia, I say not because of the global crisis but because of structural reforms or the inaction of the Croatian government over the past five years. When we look at the results of unemployment or the newly unemployed, the trend has already started last year in the ninth month. By the end of the year, an average of 5,000 Croatian citizens were more registered at the Employment Service than it was a month earlier. 20,000 people lost their jobs, or more were unemployed than before. But in the first month, that effect doubled. In the first month alone, a colleague and colleagues of 20,000 Croatian citizens lost their jobs. If you take an average of 25 working days a month, that's about 8 hundred people, 8 hundred of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens lose their jobs every day. And that is why I also say that the anti-recession measures are too late, and it is likely that this trend and the coming months will continue we believe that the proposal of this law is necessary and that Croatian citizens who are going to lose their jobs are going to get over this situation more easily today. Whether Croatia is in recession or I don't think it's a question but today and all of us are clear when we look at only statistics on industrial production, about how much the drop in exports is in the 1st month of 26% according to the data we've now received, I don't think there should be any doubt about it and that there should be no doubt at all that these black forecasts are about unemployment. This measure is one of the 25 measures of the SDP that we have proposed towards citizens. Unfortunately, concrete measures where citizens will get what they are told to swear and to be helped in this crisis year by the government we can't see. Among these anti-recession measures, there is no government that will currently help Croatian citizens to make their daily lives easier. The SDP proposed, along with this measure, for newly unemployed and measures that went directly towards employees that currently every month Croatian citizens have higher salaries. We think that these measures are necessary both because of the increasing lives of Croatian citizens and because of the protection of what consumption is said in Croatia or that our economy can still have someone to sell its services to because, of course, when they have nothing to spend, then, of course, the economy has no use for it. Unfortunately, I say, the measures of the Croatian government in this direction have not been seen. When we talk about people who are out of work, I said in January of this year, 20,000 people are talking about people who are real, who are looking at us here today, and because of that they deserve to be sent a message that we want to help you especially because this year's job opening is going to be less. It will be difficult to find a new job and therefore a message from HDZ that there is no money in the budget, that we did not say where the resources should be to help Croatian citizens worry, and we end up thinking it is not good. Today, ladies and gentlemen listen to these 20,000 people who lost their jobs in the 1st month and I think they deserve a message that we will help them as much as possible this year. Whether it's 70 or 370 million kuna, I think it's a question of minor importance. Of course, these people aren't people, and when you speak statistics, you have to be aware that those are the people who worked here today, they're not going to work tomorrow. That these are the people, for example, those 790 workers from Pliva who lost their jobs at the beginning of the year because of the poor privatisation of Pliva, that they are the people from the "Zeljezare Split" whose gas is excluded for production and who probably if such a situation continues and they are going to lose their jobs tomorrow, that they are people from Osijek "Opeka" who have cancelled orders, have no goods to sell their goods and who, in just a month, have cancelled their orders and have reduced the number of workers in the company, that they are people from the wood industry in Osijek who also have no one to sell their goods to, and instead of, someone who has painted it, cut the logs, unfortunately have to cut their jobs. These are all people with a name and a last name and we need to help these people this year. It is declassified to say that the reason not to accept this measure is 300 million kuna with a budget of 120 billion kuna. That it's impossible means helping these people. And we propose very simply, that the existing measures be extended by a certain deadline, and I think that from this law it is clearly seen and I don't think that there should be too much effort at the end of both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. Especially when we say that the budget rebalance will soon go, to find money to help these people. The forecasts ahead of us aren't bright. Some predict 50,000 jobs less this year, 50 thousand, excuse me, more unemployed, so jobs are likely to be more or less, but 50 thousand more unemployed at the end of this year. So the data we've been talking about since last year, this year, so now we're looking for where there's going to be a thousand, two employees to argue as if the situation is now great, I don't think it's standing, and we shouldn't be talking at all. What we must say in this year will be 50,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens at the end of the year more unemployed at the Employment Office than it was at the beginning of this year. And these people need help. These people also have daily needs, these people pay and loans, these people have to have security so that they can settle their obligations daily and have a decent life. How? I said there are no measures that will ensure that they can get a job tomorrow, we need to secure through the budget the measure that will ensure that they can survive with dignity this year. And that's why, in the end, I'm going to say that I think the argument of the government and the HDZ Representatives Club on sources from where 300 million kuna in the rebalancing of this budget comes at the end of the month we need to find these people in this year's crisis to help. And I hope that here we offer this measure, we hope that you will, that most MPs in this House will support it. We have heard so far that the HDZ Representatives' Club will not yet be the majority of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, perhaps other clubs will support this law. We hope that it will support it, because the government's measure regarding citizens' concrete daily assistance, I'm not speaking to the economy, but the lack of government measures towards the citizens of these anti-recessions is in action, or we almost don't notice them. And we hope that if this law is rejected, that such a law, such as these 10 measures, about 7, 8 will take over from our measures that we proposed two months ago, we hope that you will reshape this law or this measure and propose it in the next package that will come hopefully because of these 50,000 citizens is not too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28925	Thank you. We've got corrections. First Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28926	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maras has said a whole series of unargumented assumptions. What he said, it's like going to the doorman, so you're asking him to tell you the future. But it's only incorrect that the measures are in favour of the citizens. Let's think about it, so whether it goes in favor of these 230 thousand unemployed that you simply ignored, but only for those who will remain from 1. 11. by your assumptions how many of them will be without a job, which doesn't have to mean, because I can have my assumptions too, so we can talk here by morning about assumptions. So you're just challenging? You're causing a conflict of unemployed persons. 230 thousand unemployed people are ignored as if they were gone, nothing is worth anything to them, but only those who will be not know in the last few months without a job. Well, I don't think people are stupid if they listen to it, they know what message you're sending.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28927	Correction Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28928	Thank you very much. Since he has repeated inaccuracy, I will correct it again. So it's not true what my colleague Maras said, that unemployment has grown tremendously into catastrophic proportions. Unemployment rose in January compared to December 5.8%, but compared the same months for two years consecutively, in January this year compared to January last year, unemployment was lower by 2.6&a, which is 6 thousand 838 people. It is also incorrect that this government does not care about those who are unemployed, that it does not give them compensation. This year, although unemployment has increased less than a year ago, 4000 104 people receive more compensation than a year ago, which means 6.5% more people. It's two big lies that are repeated again, so we're going to deny them again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28929	Thank you. Correction Mr. Franne Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28930	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd also say I'm correcting a number of incorrect allegations, but I'll just mention some. A colleague said he needed help and an Ossetian industry that deals with the production of bricks to the wood industry. I was just about to say that I want to correct this quote of yours, and I was saying that before and before you encouraged the rise of civil servants' salaries. Since I'm coming from manufacturing, I said next, who's going to give it to these people who're going to be out of a job pay, and you didn't know how to answer that. And today at the same time you're telling this government that she didn't do anything, that there's not enough resources in her budget, on the other hand you're saying she can't be in debt. So from what means should we do all this together? At this time when the recession hit the whole world, then I asked the question, who's going to give people, the ones who are going to lose their pay minimum wage? And you fought to get state officials a raise. So it's incorrect today what you're saying, one thing to introduce yourselves and play in this assembly of people watching us today, and at the same time you don't think what you're saying. You don't think.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28931	What anyone thinks is his business, and we move on. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28932	Dear Mr. President, colleagues, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I hope you won't take this exposure as a play, but I'll start with a sentence I read 50 years ago and that I remembered this morning. That sentence reads: "He who doesn't know where he is going always gets there."That's a sentence from a children's book, Alice in Wonderland. Which is a wonderland, you'll guess for yourself. A few months ago in all serious, for you maybe, a few months ago when it was clear that the world was about to enter into a very serious crisis, a financial, later economic and all kinds of countries, organized states that happened. The leaders of those countries called on the opposition, sat together and brought a series of measures to get out of the crisis as soon as possible. In us, we didn't copy the model of America, or the great British, or the German Chancellor, we obviously have to get to the bottom to start thinking clearly. That's not good. So, fellow SDP colleagues, I congratulate you on this attempt, of course it won't pass, no matter how much we give you support and all vote with you, it won't be so. However, what may be achieved by your proposal is to speed things up and that is a lot, already a lot. Maybe we don't get to the bottom, maybe we react a little sooner, so maybe we save some of those jobs, because that's the intensity. I'm sorry, I'm a little embarrassed, I'm not gonna talk about whether 20, 15 or 7,000 are more or less unemployed. But the crisis is obvious. If we don't want to admit it's bad, it's bad. We, dear colleagues, when we adopted the budget on December 11th, proposed an amendment because we proposed adding a new position of A689015 to 300 million in the item 0.50 of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship behind the position of the unemployed. And we've been told nothing. We were looking for what then? To increase the jobless item at the expense of what? On behalf of the Department of Defense. We explained that. Of course it wasn't accepted. Now we see after three months the government is asking the Department of Defense to save and to benefit those funds for the same purpose. We've lost our colleagues for three months, because anything that suggests a position is wrong, and the Priors need to refuse, reject, not accept. With disgust, say no. That's not right, colleagues and colleagues. And we're here like you to try to help this country progress as quickly as possible, help our citizens to get a job, to have a better standard. My colleagues and colleagues, please don't reject every proposal we make as opposed to the interests of this country. I don't think there's any need to go any further, I'll read to you one more time, "He who doesn't know where he's going always gets there.".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28933	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28934	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian state has basic problems that experts in Croatia also indicate but also all international institutions that are engaged in monitoring Croatia and transition changes in Croatia. And of course these three biggest problems in Croatia are the pension system, health system and social policy. In 2008, we also had a record budget, we continued with such a budget in 2009 and we did not solve any of these fundamental problems. We are entering essentially a severe recession with unresolved problems of the pension, health system, social benefits that are usually the largest part of our state budget. Therefore, we did not use the time that meant some economic growth for fundamental reforms in Croatian society to enable the Croatian economy to be disbursed. Even in 2008 when we follow Croatia, the fall in economic activity, when we follow the growth of indifference, when we follow a certain economic stalemate, we must point out that these were the results of our problems, the ineffectiveness of our economy, the enormous burden of the expensive state on that economy. And basically the global recession that had already been affected by many European countries in 2008 has not been felt in Croatia, but it has been evident that it will also have huge consequences in the Republic of Croatia. And it was certainly necessary to actively tackle measures to speed up our reforms as well as measures to try to reduce the impact of the negative effects of recessions on the Croatian economy and on Croatian citizens in some way. This bill seeks to help citizens who will experience the problem of the negative effects of recession in their own skin. And already there are very clear data from the Employment Office on over 25 thousand people who remain jobless due to technological reorganisational changes. And technological and reorganisational changes caused by nothing but recession problems on the Croatian economy. It is becoming a question of whether the government should in some way try to find solutions to mitigate the consequences of precisely those citizens who remain unemployed because employers change the organisation, reduce technology or reduce jobs as a recession of technological activities. Of course, what can we conclude? Even with that package of intentions, the government has not turned to citizens who will have consequences, the negative consequences of these recessions. It is something that shows that the government still does not realize how severe the consequences will be for Croatian citizens. It does not understand and has no measure to protect these citizens from the negative consequences that will spill through the economy. And that's why we're trying to talk about this bill. What do we say? We're trying to say that let's extend the term of the larger fee, from 90 to 180 days and we see in the debates two disputes about it. One challenge start of the date and there is no doubt that there is no need to discuss 1.11. because we are talking about it in March of the month, so it will probably be something on January 1st because those who have just started to receive a smaller fee should not even be talking about changing now if the debate is too late. So, the date can change, the proposer can propose it with his amendment. There's a second dispute, and what about those who have been for a long time, now we're talking about something else. Gentlemen, do we realize that recession is something we have to solve as a process? Can we evaluate him as being in 2009 and see this year as problematic and we need to find a solution and reduce the impact of the negative on the economy and on the citizens. And that's where we say we're gonna try to save at least some of the citizens. If on the other hand you are assessing that we should not talk about longer deadlines, we can also talk about not creating inequality, we do not have to change deadlines for 450 days, etc. So we're talking about going over the bill. Let's try to see what we do in that part. Why? Well, because we have to show that we care about how Croatian citizens live and that we try to say that we know that you suffer the negative consequences that will happen in 2009. But there is obviously no desire to talk about whether there will be negative consequences, whether or not our citizens will suffer them. And there's something else. I see my colleagues here are calming down that employers will cut their wages. So the employers will cut the salary, the worker will work for 2,000, and then we'll cut the fee at the office. Is that the message we want to send? No, I don't. We had to fight not to cut the wages, because the reverse, will increase the cost of life. I didn't notice the prices were dropping. The basketball will still be very high. What does that mean? The citizens won't be able to survive any more, and we'll be at peace with the pay cut. No, I don't. We're also solving salaries with budget funds because we need to find a solution to the crisis. And if we estimate that the economy won't be able to pay full-time, but there will be a cut in working hours, let's think about how to resolve it. But of course, what we're going to say and where we're from. Clearly, we have not solved our basic problems. Since we haven't solved them we're completely inefficient, the problems are deficits, the problems are responsibilities. And of course, then and at our prime minister's, there's enormous fear. Yeah, England could be in charge, Germany could be in charge, so let America be in charge, but we won't be in charge. And why won't we be in charge? Why? Because we don't want to solve problems or businesses or citizens. These are differences how we approach recession problems, these are differences how we solve recession problems. We won't be in charge of the simplest solution. So there are solutions. Huge, huge savings that must be made and it is evident that even these 2 billion are not enough and, of course, deficit if necessary, if I consider these measures to be measures that we have to prescribe. But we don't want to talk about it. We don't want to talk. Clearly, the easiest thing to do is to raise your hands and surrender, but by doing so, the impact of the recession and the negative consequences will not be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28935	Thank you. We have one replica. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28936	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Linic, if we're going to talk about the law, then we certainly have some irrefutable things we can talk about. I believe you will agree with me that this bill of yours, I feel it is in good interest, but I cannot accept that good intention to share the unemployed until 1.11.2008 and the unemployed from 1.11.2008 to the end of 2009. You will agree with me to cause inequality among the unemployed. I don't think there's much to argue about, that's true. Because it means that 230 thousand people are somewhere in the 10th month last year registered unemployed. They'd simply be ignored as if they didn't exist, but would literally bond to a few thousand of those who would be out of work by the end of the year. That's the first thing. The other thing, so look, there's no great wisdom, the calculation shows everything. In this account of yours, it's worth more to me in the longer term, given that it's increasing to 450 days that unemployment fee. So here's the calculation. The unemployment fee would be received at the time from 2200 kn to 3600 kn, on average 2580 kn and the minimum wage is 2100 kuna for those working all month. The fact is, I'm not saying it's a lot of money. I didn't say that in any way, but the fact of the matter is that it's an injustice to those people who are actually doing it, they're receiving 2100 kunas, and these years and three days, unfortunately, the unemployed are going to receive that amount. And yet I say wrong to those who are on a longer term without a job. Then, the number of unemployed. Look, if you compare to the February month statistics, then the February month is relevant at this point. We only have that because we're in March. 2008 and now 2009 We only have 2821 unemployed more, so not about 150, I don't know what numbers everything is. abnormally there's barata. [[Intruding Capricorn: Time!]] But I'll remind you of one thing. I'll remind you Just here to remind you of one thing. [[Intruder Capricorn: Time.]] The highest unemployment ranged from 2000 to 2002 when it was around 400,000 unemployed. On average, 2237 people were out of work. And those are the same facts. [[Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28937	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28938	To avoid the debate on I would say inequality and dissatisfaction it is evident that the article and our amendment would change the start of the date on 1 January. Why? Because that's when we just say those who came in from January 1st and still haven't been able to run those 90 days could be extended to 180 days. Because those who have already ended or, say, last year, left them at the end of last year have already stopped. If you understand me these 90 days with 70% compensation. So, we're just saying nothing is going to happen, dissatisfaction is not going to happen. We're only adapting the law to today's debate, not... writing only shows how much SDP has given the laws in time to try to solve problems in Croatian society due to the impact of recession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if this is January 1st, all those who receive 90 days from January 1st lost their job from January 1. Now they get 90 days' compensation of 70%, they'll be extended for another three months. Therefore, the law states that everything can be solved. It's a debate to get rid of everything. It's one thing to write laws in January, discuss them in March. And that's why we see these two, three months of difference and nothing else. Therefore, the start date for this law should be January 1st and there will be no problems in this part at that time. And I wouldn't go back in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28939	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. The guest of Gordana Sobol is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28940	I thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, government representatives. So, I'm going to start with what I've been proposing the other day, explaining this bill on the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. This bill is part of only one in a series of laws in a package of anti-recession measures we propose as a SDP club. I'll put it this way. If there were no of our draft laws that we've already discussed in this assembly and now we're discussing today, it would actually seem to me that this Parliament is living under some kind of glass bell, that what's outside of this hall, outside of this building, is something completely irrelevant. It happens to someone else. The crisis. What's a crisis? Recession. What are they talking about? What are they even suggesting? Someone here said the government has some kind of anti-recession, unfortunately not measures or laws, but intentions. I ask you colleagues and colleagues come see we have all received on the bench a proposal to supplement the agenda of this 9th session of the Croatian Parliament. 21 points of the proposal for a variety of amendments and additions. Let's show me what the draft laws are that the government is transposing these anti-recession intentions into some kind of laws, or measures. Come on, please find it. In addition to the potential, the draft law amending the laws on the obligations and rights of government officials may go under. Now, that's what the government is proposing. It seems not hypocritical and dogmatic today, because when the SDP suggested it, that bill talked about it then we were hypocrites. Is it possible that the anti-recession budget rebalancing proposal that we're still just talking about, we haven't gotten it on the bench here in the Croatian Parliament, and whether the anti-recession measure proposal is supposed to be a reduction of 2 billion kunas of waste, I dare say the waste of our ministries or the mind in that budget rebalancing we'll see something else. So, colleagues and colleagues, really, if there are no of these bill proposals, we're talking about the problems of people who, in one way or another today, are going to be left with tomorrow or today while I'm saying this, are left with no job, it turns out to be someone else's concern, not ours. It is said here today that this bill creates a great injustice and a difference within that large yet large number of unemployed. But colleagues and colleagues, so there's about 230,000 unemployed at the Bureau. But please, let's tell the truth. Well, they don't all receive compensation. Some 60,000 of those who are at the Employment Office receive some compensation, so those who come to the Employment Service don't come on the same basis, don't, don't get the same status at the Bureau. So when we talk about it, then please come on then let's say that extension sentence. You know, it's very interesting to watch how, when some categories are, when something like SDP we suggest or anyone else in the opposition then we create injustice, then even constitutional doubts are raised whether something is constitutional, fair or not. That's where you mentioned the people who are employed at the minimal today. But you know your colleagues and your colleagues. Let's remember last year's debate on the Minimum Salary Act. Then without a pardon, a whole group of workers were wronged. They have been discriminated against by other workers who receive minimum wage. It's a wood-processing industry, it's a textile, footwear, leather industry that we've prescribed a smaller minimumer than these others. It wasn't an injustice at the time. Oh, no, please! So when it comes from the other side it's not injustice, and when it comes from our side it's injustice. The other day was a session, thematic session of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. I'm sorry most of our deputies weren't at that session. But then we received data and explained the data of the director of the Croatian Employment Service, they were experts, representatives of employers, entrepreneurs, etc. And we got material that wasn't written by Gordana Sobol or the SDP club, but it's official material in front of the employment office. And now he says it like this. First of all, he says that in February of last February for the first time, I am stressing, for the first time in the last few years, the number of unemployed has increased by 1%. Now, some colleagues are going to say, so what's 1%? That's what you heard today. Two thousand and some more workers. It's a minorization of the problem. And I ask you colleagues and colleagues, where today has led us to minorise problems by the government, to warn us that there is a crisis coming, that we are ahead of a recession, that jobs are in danger, what has this led us to today? So until finally the government says here that it has some anti-recession intentions because if we ignore and minorize this problem, I'm afraid that in a few months we're going to start talking about much larger percentages. But more importantly, maybe even from that number of 1% is something else. Namely, when it comes to newly registered unemployed according to the reasons for the termination of work, then it is said that the most common reasons for the termination of work are the end of work for the employee at a specified time or about 46% in the total number. Furthermore, the business-conditional cancellation for economic, technical or organisational reasons or 23.5%, and according to the end of the work of a seasonal employee, 16% and further said, comparing with the same period a year earlier, is a significant increase in the number of business-related cancellations by more than 45%. So that's what we're warning you about, and that's what we're talking about, and that's what's at the bottom of the line that can be read from the materials that we got from the employment office. Therefore, business-conditional cancellations, hence cancellations due to economic, technical or organisational reasons, were increased compared to the previous period by 45%. Furthermore, who are these workers, from what activities do they come from? Therefore, the number of newly reported work experience towards the activity of the previous job is the largest absolute difference recorded in the processing industry, construction, trade, real estate and business services, within the processing industry, unemployed from the metal industry, wood production, furniture, clothing and textiles production, and the electronic industry. My colleagues and colleagues, these are your data which are relevant, I don't know if it's already a good alarm sign, I don't know what you should wake up, whether you're here, whether you're Croatian government. I've already said, the budget rebalance has been announced. So the question has been raised where this million will be settled. We have predicted some 70 million, but the government's calculation is that it would amount to over 300 million, so I say colleagues and colleagues, the budget rebalance is. Can we and are we strong enough? Do we even think about doing so through this budget rebalance to use it and thus by seizing out these additional funds, we help those categories that we have proposed through these amendments and supplementing the bill proposals that we consider to be the most endangered. Therefore, there are absolutely no indications that the government has stated here that the reasons why it cannot accept this bill is because we believe it satisfies, so all that the Croatian government should do when it comes to certain categories of newly unemployed persons at the employment office.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28941	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I mean, I have to correct the inaccuracies of fellow Sobol, who in a special way expressed her position on government measures, stressing that it was anti-recession intentions. Apparently, fellow Sobol is that it's not true. It's about measures, and you, as before, and it's obvious, you're always accusing the government and I don't know who else for everyone, as if we don't understand others, as you all know, we don't know that it's a global crisis and that it's coming from the world and that we can't stop it at our borders. It's the government's fault, it's your fault, it's the prime minister's fault, it's only a little bit more to blame because you're breathing air.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28943	Thank you. We also have one replica, the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, look, if we experience what Agent Sobol said that we can and that these laws are somehow an incentive to discuss the economic crisis, okay. We accept. But then let's say it's the laws, that's because they're populist, there's no question that they're hot, normally for those who listen to it, so you see, they're really more suggestive because people aren't familiar with the content, that's why I'm talking about it. When you talk all the time about these anti-recession measures, but don't, give your colleagues who are in the Economic Council and who agreed, here's one thing I read, if the newspaper lies where your representative, MP Ljubo Jurcic fully supports these anti-recession measures that the Economic Council has brought and the Government has fully accepted. And when we talk about the problem and when you said that the injustice was done with the minimum wage for the textile industry, etc. We can't put this in the same basket. For what? Because social partners, unions required it. That's the whole story. The government did not impose that distinction on the minimum wage, but the trade unions asked for it because the activity cannot pay the minimum wage. So it doesn't have anything to do with you putting in the same basket and planting that as a government did it or we did it wrong, but we only respected the opinion of the social partners. And when you talk about the structure of the unemployed, then let's be exact, so let's say, of the total cancellations in the last 6 months of which there were 92 thousand, 46.5% of the contract is fixed time. So the moment the man made the deal, he knew when he was going to lose his job. So let's say 16% is a seasonal deal where it becomes a need. So let's be exact here. But let's correct another injustice, and here I call you. Let's correct the injustice, when you mentioned Pliva, is it not an injustice, a consensual dismissal?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28945	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28946	I'm sorry, maybe just because it's interesting. Agreemental notices that workers agree with the employer to take high severances and take 250,300 thousand kunas of severance and then apply to the Employment Service and raise the unemployment rate. Is it fair to those who have been out of work for years and have not had a chance at severance?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28947	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. ... I wrote it down here, but I didn't see you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28948	So, my colleague Kunst, I have pointed out precisely why the number of newly unemployed is increasing. I listed for business reasons a percentage, I got fired for working for a certain period of time, and I also listed the exact percentage of seasonal jobs. So, in that sense, I honestly said to the end which is the structure, with the fact that I also emphasized that the Employment Service has significantly increased the number of cancellations that workers have received for economic, technical or organisational reasons for more than 45%, and I can only conclude that someone must have lighted up at the Employment Service. I don't know when someone's gonna turn that light on in government. You say these, you twist my words a little bit. I said there are no laws that we, as SDP, warn you both here and the government but also the general public in the crisis that we are in, in fact, in this Parliament about the economy, about the crisis, about what's going on outside of this assembly we wouldn't be discussing at all. Then what should we discuss? So what do we discuss if we don't want to talk about it as Parliamentarians? When you talk about the proposal for measures by the Economic Council, what I've said for the time being, my colleague Kunst, are still anti-recession intentions. At the time when what someone said they intended to do comes into this House in the form of a bill or concrete measures, at that time we will be able to discuss whether the Government really has a package or something other anti-recession measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28949	Thank you. At 10:49 p.m., the time has expired for individual hearings, so please consider that. And now we're moving forward with an individual debate. Dear Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28950	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The exercise of the right to cash compensation during unemployment was regulated by the Employment and Rights Intervention Act, and that law I read came into force just 1.1.2009 i.e. This year. This means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has very much predicted that certain measures will be taken in terms of unemployment, and for this very reason it has passed this law. I would like to remind you that one of the main objectives of the adoption of that law was its full alignment with the European Union directives and the creation of the necessary normative assumptions of the direct application of the European Union regulation on the day of Croatia's accession to the European Union. The conditions for exercising the right to cash compensation during unemployment as well as the heights of this law are set in a new way than before. Of course, there has been an increase in cash compensation rights in the first year of use in order to protect a person from the dangers of poverty at the same time and to enable it to actively seek work and subsequently detimise long-term unemployment. There is a significant increase in unemployment benefits in the first three months following the loss of employment but a gradual reduction in employment to detimise long-term unemployment. The coordination of the cash compensation achieved, which is due to employment and continues after the return of unemployment, with a new basis achieved during and after the last employment. Secondly, the principle of equal treatment is women and men. In accordance with Council directives, an unemployed person who has spent 32 years working has the right to cash compensation until employment, or while some of the other legal reasons for the termination of the right to cash compensation arises. Third, equality in the exercise of the right to cash compensation during the unemployment of persons working part-time, which is also one of the newspapers. All of this is in laws that are currently in place, but the SDP is making changes to that law and I will be here, but my colleagues have already listed these differences and these amendments. The first period of use of cash compensation is 70 % of the base from the current 90 to 180 days, the period of use of cash from the current 90 to 180 days for the unemployed person who spent more than nine months to 2 years working. Also, the period of use of cash compensation from the current 120 days to 330 days, on 360 days of unemployment of persons who spent more than 2 years in work and less than 10 years. And the fourth period of use of cash compensation from the current 360 to 450 days on 450 days for an unemployed person who spent more than 10 years working. According to the proposal, the right would be established for persons whose employment relationship ceased from 1.11.2008 to 1.11.2009, which is, in my opinion, legally doubtful for those whose right to compensation has already been established. For example, it was especially more favourable for some women to come to the office records and use the cash fee by applying until 31.12. According to the Croatian Employment Service's calculations, a guided comparison with the lengths of the use of the payment under the law and the lengths in this proposal as well as the already calculated increase of 326 million kuna. Of course, this is a significant increase and there should be considerable resources to be allocated in relation to what the proposer has said to these amendments, 73 million is enough. Finally, I cannot support this proposal to amend the SDP law for the reason that it would certainly increase the passive mass of workers working at the Croatian Employment Service, which, according to these SDP proposals at the Croatian Employment Service, would have even more income than some employees. And what is important is to point out, these changes would also affect the large injustices of the unemployed at the Employment Office precisely because they are proposed to divide the unemployed into two groups. So, those who have been unemployed for years or so. Unemployed to 1. 11. In 2008, they will have other rights, significantly smaller resources, and those that would be of 1. 1st.. 2008 means you'd have more rights. And for that reason, I just can't accept those suggestions. And there's one more thing I'd like to say, listening to my colleagues' debates is from the Proposer Club of these changes, everyone you've been saying, you've been saying different data. Just about the number of unemployment in the first month of this year compared to the first month of last year i.e. In 2008. So you were saying, the first one was the speech that he was 10,000 unemployed, so the second one was saying that 20 thousand were unemployed, and here's fellow Sobol said that the Employment Service gave the exact information that one percent and that's two thousand 150 unemployed. Therefore, your SDP colleagues agree that you are speaking the same amount, not as you wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28951	Thank you. We have two corrections and two replicas. The first is the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28952	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the two incorrect allegations of Honorable Representative Šolic. The first incorrect quote was when she said that this law came into force on January 1st and that this was proof that the government was considering the consequences of the crisis, etc. The allegations are incorrect because the law was passed at a meeting of the Parliament on 2nd of June 2008, and several months later, they refused to admit it was a crisis, and then they barely spoke the word crisis. And after that, they barely said the word recession. Therefore, the law really did not predict the crisis at the time when it was passed, because the crisis did not want to admit it a few months after that. As for the number of unemployed, what you said in the end. Indeed, different interpretations are possible. I think the most accurate is the next interpretation. Mr. Kunst presented both information. So, in January 2009, the unemployed were 7,000 less than last year, and in February, 2,000 more. Which means that between January and February when they passed... the job lost about 9,000 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28953	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28954	So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that I compared it to the number of unemployed in December 2008 and 2007. I said by presenting 10 thousand 620 unemployed, that in the 12th month, compared to the 11th month, 6000 794 were unemployed, i.e. without a job and additional in January compared to December 3000 826. It's illogical to compare the current month and month a year ago, because people stay out of work today and a month ago. Those who lost their jobs a year ago and didn't get a job will no longer receive any compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28955	Thank you. And now we have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28956	Thank you very much. Mrs. Šolić, from your debate, which I have heard carefully, there are two facts that simply do not stand and that I must replicate for you. The first thing is that it's almost incredible, today is the 3rd month, you said the government was preparing last year, and that's why it passed this law in the 7th month last year. And it's almost amazing that the 3rd month of the year that we all already know is going to be hard to be a crisis, the whole world knows that for a year. And we in the parliamentary procedure, as said earlier in Mrs Sobol's debate, have no law other than this on the rights of officials who would go towards changing the situation, to help the economy or citizens. Not a single law, meaning 3 months this year, has many countries that have thought about it already had first results. Unfortunately, we don't even have laws that could offer anything. And this law is not the one that will essentially help to reduce the number of employees, but is the law that will help people who remain unemployed to survive this year. We'd be happier if you'd accepted the laws that the SDP has proposed to go after to help preserve jobs, not that we have to deal with a law that will help people who have lost their jobs, which this year will be 50 grand to get through this year hard. There have been many laws that you have been able to accept in recent months on behalf of the SDP promoter who went in order to protect jobs, and not now like this law, which unfortunately has to go after it to help people who are going to lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28957	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28958	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Maras. I'll try to answer the line. Look, you're saying that the government, again you claim, has not been prepared by the government, the government has no measures whatsoever, etc. to the coming situation. But look, I said the fact and that fact is legal. And that's exactly the law that came into force last year. One this year. That is precisely one of the measures, since the government has been preparing for the coming situation. However, you say that you are proposing laws and to stop the recession and that none of your laws will be accepted. Mr. Maras, look, the global crisis that has affected us doesn't help any fire laws like you do. That's one thing. And secondly, you hear, so give these laws, maybe the world accepts your laws from the SDP, so you'll save the whole world in this global crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28959	Thank you. We have another replica, it's the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28960	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Šolić, here's your latest, most frigid, so to speak. Today, at this time, 262 000 821 unemployed persons are registered at the Employment Office. In February, data from the Bureau. Every day without a job, 500 workers are left, every day, which is a 3.4% increase compared to January. And colleague Šolić, when you said we were talking about different, we're reading different data, it just means you didn't listen to us very carefully. Because one thing is what my colleague Dragica Zgrebec said, the other is what I said and when I mentioned the month of February which none of you wanted to mention. And it was that for the first time in February compared to February last year, unemployment growth was 1%. And I have warned of the execution of minorization and ignoring of those facts by you sitting here and the current government. That's what this is about. So we were talking about different time periods, which is why the different data are different. When we talk about the heights of the fee. With this bill of law, we do not propose any change in the amount of compensation. The amount of compensation was determined by the Employment Intervention Act which came into force. So we didn't, we went to those who are now increasing that amount of compensation. And I really appeal to you, please, from your presentation from the words you've spoken. And it turns out in the end that now imagine our people are going to rush to the Employment Service to get this bigger fee that's even bigger than the minimum, because, you know, it's just people that now I'm going to sign up for the Employment Service and get that fee so that I'm unemployed, so let's say I'm doing something black and stuff. My colleague Šolić seems to listen to individuals from some employers' associations, who view the problem of unemployed people in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28961	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28962	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sobol, look, we haven't all of us since yesterday. I know very well, I've been here for a long time that you always like to hide from workers, behind those who are socially sensitive etc.. But it works, to remind you, how you handled the number of unemployed at the Employment Service. You simply wiped them out of the register. And that was your big professional phenomenon. And from the facts, you know the facts about unemployment and the number of unemployment at these moments of course change from day to day. But I listened very carefully to you and wrote here what you said about the number of unemployed compared to some period from last year, and you really didn't agree to say together as a club exact information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28963	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is time for the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28964	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here's listening to this debate all morning about the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights at the time of unemployment. I believe that here are all those who look at us through the media and listen already heard all the data, so, and several times, even those data that can be read from the proposed law. I'll just briefly repeat them and that's that the proposer suggested that the cash charge period of 70 % of the base be extended from the current 90 to 180 days. Furthermore, for those who were employed, therefore, for those who were employed for 9 months, from 9 months to 2 years, the period of use of the cash compensation should also be extended from the current 90 to 180 days. For those who were employed from 2 years to 10 years from the current 120 to 330 days to 360 days and for those who had been employed for more than 10 years to extend the cash charge period from 360 to 450 days, therefore, to 450 days. According to the proposer's proposal, this extension, therefore, would relate to those whose employment relationship ended on 1 November 2008 until 1 November 2009. And as we've heard before, the proposer has calculated to ensure 73 million kuna in order to implement this law. According to the Croatian Employment Institute, this data is that it would be necessary to provide funding of 326 million kuna. We might be able to discuss how and in what way these funds would be secured, but what I find most controversial here is bringing people into an unequal position before the 1st of November 2008 without a job. I don't think we should allow it at all, so we in the Croatian Parliament should not accept that any man is being brought into an unequal position in relation to someone else, and here it is clearly visible. So that those people who lost their jobs on November 1st 2008 have greater rights than those who lost their jobs by 1st of November 2008. There is certainly a chance that these people who were jobless before 1 November 2008 and longer unemployed. So maybe even in an even more difficult situation than these people who are just now out of a job. So there is no way they can accept such a proposal that categories of unemployed people are shared or that two or more categories are created on those who have greater rights and on those who exercise smaller rights. I believe that the active employment measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will certainly contribute to encouraging employers to receive new workers, that workers who remain jobless may be overqualified and acquired some new occupation and thus find a new job. But here's this proposal, unfortunately, I can't support it, because bringing into an unequal position of the unemployed category of people, I don't think it's appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28965	Thank you very much. Followed by a further debate by distinguished counterpart Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28966	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act is therefore one of the legal proposals in the SDP anti-recession package aimed at amortising the consequences of the recession on the standard of living of Croatian citizens, specifically that part of the citizens who are going to lose their jobs due to the recession. Based on the current dynamics of job layoffs, and we know that this is around 150 a day, such citizens could by the end of the year be according to some estimates and 50 thousand, perhaps more. Because the forecasts of world’s leading economists are constantly getting worse, or they’re saying that the crisis is going to be deeper than we thought, and that it’s going to take longer than originally thought. In this respect, the World Bank's senior officials say, and I will quote that "in these times of crisis it is very important to protect the poor and vulnerable layers of the population and provide them with social security." So, taking into account exactly that, on social security, we in the SDP have proposed that this law be passed by emergency procedure, because we consider unemployed persons to be the most vulnerable category of population that requires emergency measures to mitigate the consequences of the crisis to their standard of living. Of course, that's not what our proposal went through. Our proposal intervenes in Articles 42 and 44 of the Law in a way that extends the period of application of benefits for the newly unemployed and that a greater fee is received for a long time, all with the aim of easing the consequences of the recession. According to our calculations, around 73 million kuna should be provided for the implementation of this law in the state budget. According to the government's calculations, it's more than multiple, so some 326 million kuna, but our counterargument is also extremely strong. In the postwar period, therefore, between 1996 and 2008, Croatia's salaries increased more than 2.6 times, while the highest amount of unemployment benefits grew twice as slowly. So he only increased 1.3 times, we know from 900 to 1200 kuna. In other words, under some normal circumstances, it would be necessary to increase benefits for the unemployed, especially in times of crisis as they are today. And allow me just another brief clarification to the distinguished representatives, Mr. Kunst and Mrs. Šolić. Namely, I'd like to say next. We do not share in the SDP the unemployed on those who lost their jobs until 1.11.2008 and those who lost their jobs after that date. We share the period, so we share the time, not the unemployed. Time to recession and time in recession. And we're trying to amortize the consequences for our citizens who have lost their jobs because of this recession, so SDP doesn't do any discrimination or invent hot water as it is here trying to say. We are merely following examples of good practice from our environment. In fact, other countries are taking such interventions because of the special situation in which we have all found ourselves precisely because of the recession. So this anti-recession measure does not predicate to change the position of all the unemployed in Croatia right now. For years, we have over 240,000 unemployed and most of these people are permanently unemployed and permanently unemployed. I'm personally sorry that the largest number among them is women. So it's a regular situation. We want to ease the position of those who will remain or have already lost their jobs because of the recession as a special situation. I want to ask if that side thinks there may be no special situation. If he thinks so, then they can keep their eyes closed, but the problem won't go away. Unfortunately, 150 of our citizens will still be out of work on a daily basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28967	Thank you very much. There are two applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28968	It is difficult for me to correct an MP who is obviously not the current Employment Mediation and Rights Act at the time of unemployment. Because if she had read it then she would have realized that it wasn't now a fee for the unemployed of 1200 kuna, but that the fee for the unemployed was 70% of the base for the first 90 days, and then 50% of the basis for the period after 90 days, as long as she had the right to do so. It just means that if you'd looked at the current law, you'd know. And while you're at that fee, I'll remind you and try to think about how long she was in charge of 900 kuna and it was 700 kuna to 900, the lowest of 700 to 900. Since 2000 and try to think till what year. And this government has just passed this law to increase what you've heard, unemployment benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28969	Thank you very much. A distinguished representative, Ljubica Lukačić, came forward for correction. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do to correct just one incorrect quote from a colleague. Well, it's not true, my colleague said we don't share the unemployed. It is simply not true, because the higher rights proposed by this law have those who lost their jobs on November 1st 2008. Why is it that one who lost his job on October 31st has less rights. So, your colleagues share them. It is not true that you do not share them, because it says that the crisis began on 1 November 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28971	Thank you very much. The debate followed by distinguished counterpart Neda Klaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say in fact that I will not support the proposed law because there are several important arguments that we have already heard here, but first of all, I have to say that in the event of the proposed law he would significantly violate the balance of the state budget because instead of the proposed calculation of 73 million kuna, it would be necessary to provide 326 million kuna, which is actually more than 4 times more than what is shown. Furthermore, the proposed law lays down, but I do repeat here there have been several corrections of incorrect allegations, in an unequal and unequal situation of the unemployed themselves, so that the unemployed, registered to the Employment Office by 1 November 2008 would be suspended in the incomes of the cash compensation. Thus, in terms of the unemployed who would be entitled to cash compensation after 1 November 2008, which is also unacceptable from the constitutional and legal aspects. I deliberately didn't want to correct the allegations of Representative Jelash, but I have to, I need to actually say that we can't isolate people and exempt them from some time frame. Furthermore, the proposed length of the length of the amount of money paid by unemployed persons would have a fatal effect on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and particularly on their efforts to preserve the existing job fund, and of course seen in the light of the global and Croatian economic crisis. In particular, it is important to stress that I appreciate the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the adoption of anti-recession measures which result in the need for units of local and regional self-government in accordance with their available potentials, of course and specificities, to be actively involved in the anti-recession process. I have to say that I have a question to ask, and what kind of message would you send in the event of accepting this proposal to our citizens? What's more worth doing or not doing? Finally, the applicable law is, in fact, socially sensitive both in the course of the consumption of rights and in the amount of compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28973	Thank you very much. We have three reported replicas. First of all, dear colleague Goran Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28974	Gordan Maras. Comrade Klaric, here's just two things I'm trying to tell you. So, during a couple of discussions, the issue of this application is already being raised, that is, whether someone who was three months old and who has been unemployed for 3 months is less than someone who would have had six months under this law. A short time ago, my colleague Linic said and we are ready if you wish to correct this injustice by amendment, and I see that you have seen it propose an amendment, we will accept it as a proposal and we will remove that injustice from the outside. We realized that normally those who would be from 1.1 till the adoption of the law of 1.4 were entitled to compensation for their right and extension. There's no problem. As for the funds. Three hundred million kunas, I don't think it's too much cost. If we could save on operational expenses, it means travel team etc., phones from state ministries in this announced budget rebalancing 2 billion kuna, whether 300 million kuna is too much money to help people who are going to be out of work this year. Tell me Decided, is it too much money to help these people this year when we're on cell phones, representations and travel expenses we've managed to save from the budget, we haven't yet, but we're hoping to make 2 billion kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28975	Thank you, colleague Maras. Answer, colleague Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28976	Of course, I will answer my colleagues to Maras immediately this last question. Mr. Maras, I must tell you that I am definitely not in my individual debate that this is an open path to the government's anti-recession package, so according to the units of local and regional self-government that we all engage in a simple anti-recession process. So I'm going to tell you that I personally and in the field of my unit of local self-government as head of that unit already three years ago have started to apply certain austerity measures that I didn't see as anti-recessional at that time, but rather contribute to one rational use of taxpayers' funds. Of course, in this light of the economic crisis in the world and Croatia, I can also take some measures, and I don't have time to tax them to give them the title of the Anti-Recesian. Compared to your question whether 326 million kuna from the state budget is too much for the unemployed. Not if all the arguments on the trail we've come to are actually defenses were solved, so to speak, under quotes of arguments from which no applicable law can go with amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28977	Thank you very much. Here comes the replica of the distinguished colleague Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28978	Well, it kind of seems to me that my colleague Klaric turns out that in this country, everyone but the government needs to implement different anti-recession measures. Because we haven't received anything since the government's anti-recession measures yet. When you said that this proposal, or according to the government's calculation, would violate this amount of money's balance of government budget, I assume you don't trust your own government. Well, that government of ours says every day that she's the smartest, the best, the most she thinks about these citizens. Well, I guess you'd also find a solution from where and from which items to reduce those 300 and so many million kunas. And one more thing, you said that this law would detimulatively affect the efforts of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to preserve their jobs. My colleague Klaric, do you know what detimulatively affects entrepreneurs? Here's an example. The wood industry, driven by 50 employees using Croatian, Croatian brains when it comes to the design of Croatian raw materials, is connected to a dozen producers of different pieces of furniture, and those associated come out to competitions conducted by public institutions and you know what happens? They're not coming through. Not even for the price. They have lower prices than the rest. Because various commissions know in advance who needs to get a job and usually get it when it comes to setting up someone who, there he comes up with, so he imports some Italian or I don't know whose furniture and such are passing on in these competitions. Here you see, it's just a small example of how and in what way from the highest levels when it comes to stimulation or destimulation that it detimulates our entrepreneurs. That entrepreneur, better said entrepreneurs because it's about a woman who owns it, there's nothing left to say to her employees, look, I'll keep you as long as I can, but please try to find somewhere else to work. That's what this is about, not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28979	Thank you. Replica response, colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28980	Well, look, I've got to talk again from the end of the story, but you're using the space where we're going into a debate that's not the subject of this law. You're entering the Public Procurement Act. I'll tell you now, Madam Representative, again that, you definitely need to make a deal, forgive me throughout the debate from morning alone, from 9, 30 to here. You once call yourself a package of anti-recession measures some sort of alleged measure, some kind of intention, and equally yourself, you're in conflict with yourself because you're saying that between the other 10 measures, 8 of those proposed by the SDP are accepted. And then let's go measure one to ten and see what that is. If these are measures, if they're intentions, if they're supposed to be measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28981	Thank you very much. Dear dear Zgrebec, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28982	My colleague Klaric, you say that the message of this law by you is negative because you asked the question that you can ask the question work or not work, or other words work for wages or go to the employment office, and then, according to this proposal, you get 70% of the salary of 180 days. Do you really think that citizens, or workers, will rush to the employment office to receive 70% of the wages they could get to work at 100%? Is that what you really think? So you know that if a worker quits that he can't get fired, if he quits, he can't get paid at the office. So, the workers won't rush to the employment office for 180 days to receive 70% of the wages they can earn if they work. And I would really like to tell you that it is commendable that you have made in your city a package of anti-recession measures and that you are applying them. It is commendable, but it is not commendable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not yet done so.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28983	Replica response, dear colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28984	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Zgrebec, Mr. Kunst has spoken the code, and in his presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, as well as in the individual debate, and he stated exactly what the duration is, as well as the amounts that people receive during the exercise of that right. He said the same thing, which is the minimum wage. The third dimension I tried to express is actually what space means in a spiritual reality, and also in a moral vertical when we bring and when we put into a parallel relationship people who are registered to the employment office and those who work for the minimum wage. That's one thing. And on the other hand, and in this way as you praise actually the efforts to make in the units of local self-government and my example in some way to facilitate and contribute to the measures of the anti-recession process, I have to say that there is still plenty of space in other units of regional and local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28985	Thank you very much. We continue with an individual debate, distinguished colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28986	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Vecernji list's portal announced that 500 people were out of work every day in February, compared to the January increase of 3.4%. In total, 262 821 people were unemployed. Two days ago, we saw an earthquake story from a worker who, on the same day her husband was fired. So, it's really incomprehensible to arrogance, if it's towards living people, people, then it's inconceivable facts. It is incomprehensible to resist and explain and spend energy in refuting a proposal that wants to meet people to survive this year 2009 with complete uncertainty which will continue if you spend energy on challenging something rather than offering concrete, or improvement, and even such a bill, you see, we have this whole package, I hope that we will continue to debate and other proposals. So, in his opinion, the government only gives on one paper list, gives a contradictory opinion. First of all, he says, and this is first of all, and here many HDZ colleagues point out that, with this proposal, some categories of unemployed, or those who were left without an early seat before 1 November 2008 would be in an unequal position with those who remain unemployed from 1 November 2008. So, what's the intensity? Absolute equality in poverty. So let's even these, we don't mind. So, for the first time, the first reason is that, you don't speak at all, you even ask the question that it's too small and then you say there's no necessary funds in the budget for this implementation of the bill. And the government knows where the money is. And there's no money in the budget, but he's got it and he needs to be in the budget. If you don't know, the Government can't say that it doesn't know, and it's hard to imagine that it doesn't know because it's reported by the State's Attorney's Office in its annual report, saying that gravel is being removed, that the stone, ore treasure of Croatia, representing the property of the Republic of Croatia, is being removed. If the lawless work was charged, hundreds of millions of kuna would be poured into the state budget. It's in the state's attorney's report. Why doesn't that money come together to whom that money goes and whose blessing. Namely, what it's about. The illegal exploitation of the mineral treasure is primarily sold to the state. First it's stolen from the state and then sold to that same country. The Republic of Croatia. And such payments you see in this great insolvency take precedence over all other legal payments. And here, if you'll excuse my expression, we're dealing with this argument here, that would be a huge amount of 326 million. And this is about hundreds of millions in a single calendar year. So, if the state really wanted to do something and not pretend to do something and when proposed, then we had here how many times a parade by the government and here in the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen, don't just criticize, suggest something. Here's what we're proposing. If you know better, take it. Do more if you say this is less and some categories would be because of it. Because of the application of this law, someone would feel threatened. So what kind of explanation is that? So offer for all categories. And I'm telling you where there are funds and the government knows where the funds are, that they're going past the state budget. Here's another suggestion. Why did the state start building a huge SOA investment two months ago? Is it necessary for Croatia, in these recession times, that we build a grand building for the intelligence system, don't they have a lot of space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28987	Thank you very much. We have a report of a rectification of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28988	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This finding that because we do not support the SDP's proposal to distribute unemployment means sharing on those who do not have the right to what they suggest in relation to a small number that would have that right. And that's basically our commitment to absolute poverty. It is an absurd which is too big and when it comes from a representative Marinovic who was once a minister and even surprised that she instead of struggling to respect the Constitution for the equality of all before the law that she advocates that not all should be equal, but they should be more equal than those who are unfortunately not covered by that law. This government rightly increased the amount of unemployment benefits. Well, you didn't increase it. So you know how many years you've held men's fees of 900 kuna, at the lowest of 700 kuna. You raised 18 kunas, you had the highest unemployment rate. So please think about it. This is a dust drop in the eyes. But you know, people aren't blind.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28989	Correct your colleague Kunst, then the rest. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished colleague of Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28990	From the beginning, I thought it was a replica because Mr. Kunst was even once a union leader, so I expected a little more courage. ... Yeah, but not the one who did. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28991	What article of the Rules of Procedure, ma'am?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28992	So perhaps the one you paid for last year to the HDZ 200 million kuna might advise you a little, given how much it gets from the Government of the Republic of Croatia can give you such a piece of advice along the way. Here, then, let me look back at this breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kunst replicated, he violated the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 because he was not correcting anything but replicating it and giving one of his opinions entirely wrong. I won't correct him in that opinion, but please don't distort the facts because no one has a right to the facts. They just exist or they don't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28993	Thank you very much. A lot of corrections are actually in a domain of replicas, so I'm now going to give to correct the alleged fellow MP Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28994	Thank you very much. Here, I'll show you how the rules are quoted. So I am correcting the next untrue quote, quote, "The arrogance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards the unemployed is incomprehensible.". Did you say that? Yeah, we heard. The government is not arrogant, but just the other way around with a lot of sensitivity, with a lot of social sense of approach very qualified for all amendments to laws that focus on better life and standards in times of crisis. The second correction to an incorrect quote, I quote my colleague, "The state is pretending to do something.". The state does not act because the results are seen, published in official newspapers, media, the internet ten moves ten days ago and before that a whole series of changes. So, don't act like it's working. And pretend you and this play that's ahead of us would cost the country 6 billion kuna, so much for these proposals that we have before us that the state should be in debt and then it would no longer be an economic crisis but a real recession.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28995	Thank you very much. Here, two allegations have been corrected but then we go again and a little more in the domain of commentary. There is also an application for the replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Hanžek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28996	Well, I'll replicate to my colleague, but to all of us, in fact, what kind of state we are. I'm watching "The Diaries" last week where a young man is wise to perform as next. And now our colleague will come forward by name and last name from America, where there are no results from President Obama's anti-crisis and recession measures yet. Clearly, it's someone who wants to make out with our government. Through the Dnevnik sales, here you see the Americans yet a few more results, and Obama is 50 days head of state, and we haven't brought anti-recession measures in 50 days, but unfortunately only intentions. And I really think that these discussions on whose side the proposals are coming from, should be analysed in a way that we can see what to take from them in order to improve the state of all those who, in this year and in recent years, have been able to lose their jobs so that they can't feed their families. Whoever didn't go through with it, I don't want him to. I've been through it by the authorities, and when you get up in the morning and you don't know if you'll have bread and milk, for a baby born, then it's a trauma that stays forever. And that's why... about who, what or how he proposes, rather than what we're going to bring, which we're going to apply to facilitate the situation in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28997	Thank you very much. Since Obama won't answer, yes, something's going or isn't going, but a dear colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, answered. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28998	So that a colleague from that shows that the government rejects responsibility. And as we warned in 2007, so when this ratio of imports and exports and industrial production was clearly showing that, independently of the global processes, we are entering our own crisis, which the Government has done with its own actions and not already started to introduce, the government is now refusing any responsibility. That's what we've been hearing for days. The global market is wrong, then we hear sometimes from Mrs. Solic that any mayor of SDP is guilty, but the government is never, ever guilty. And the government doesn't do anything, refuses to do anything when something is proposed to her, and even when she's done something so far, she's got us all closer to breaking and entering. Well, then a man really wants to, if HDZ needs to save him from being saved.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u28999	I guess he wants to be saved. They just don't want to save him. But okay, we're moving on with the debate. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29000	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Who is this law about? Who needs this law? He needs those who are out of a job. And do they even lose their jobs? counterpart Hebrang and counterpart Kunst argue that they do not stay and provide statistics on how the number of unemployed in Croatia decreases from year to year. And how he's less employed this year than there were last year. Those people who lose their jobs say they're still working. They just don't know they're working and they don't know they got fired, they don't know it's a question of whether they'll ever get a job again. Because the one who's out of a job today, and he's 40, 45 years old, he's hardly going back to the world of work. Who's gonna hire him again? Even when the recession is over and the government in this country changes, when better times come, these people will be too old to be taken back into the world of work. New generations will come, younger. Therefore, those who are losing their jobs today, unfortunately, seem to be losing him forever. Who's gonna hire them? A colleague of Kunst, a Colge Hegrang, who tells them today that they're still working. What are the objections to this bill? Says colleague Kunst, that would only encourage cancellation. Please, nice. Well, it's quite clear that the right to unemployment benefits is not the one who resigns himself, the one who voluntarily steps out of the world of work. Thus, and how the increase in unemployment benefits would encourage cancellation. It is a transparent excuse, an attempt to create fog and highlight objections that are not, that do not stand, to find such an excuse to reject this legal proposal. Says counterpart Kunst, speaking on behalf of the HDZ club, that this legal proposal is an injustice to the employees because the fee would be higher than the salary. I don't know my colleague Kunst how you're not embarrassed? I really can't understand that. I can't understand that you're someone who, after a certain number, after 180 days that fee is 2 thousand 580 kuna, you say it's too much compared to those who work. Unemployment benefits are not life-long, they are paid for a while, and then they stop paying off. And if a man doesn't find a new job, he's left without any compensation. The one who stays in the world of work, even with a minimum wage, stays in the world of work, it has some perspective. He who loses his job has no perspective, and you tell him that he will be in a better position than he who does and that it is unfair for him who does. The second objection is money. Where'd you get the money? We say from the budget, of course, where else to go than from the budget. But you say there's no money in the budget. There's no money in the budget for this. You'd be saying, if you hadn't spent 10 million kuna on lobbying in Washington and London without knowing the results of that lobbying without knowing who that 10 million kuna went to. It would be for the unemployed. It would have been, if you hadn't overpaid the trucks for Morh, it would have been. It would have been if you hadn't lost $5 million in Brodosplit. It would be. It'd be for the unemployed, too. But you liked spending all those millions the way you spent them. Overpaying trucks, paying lobbyists and for crime in Brodosplit. How dark you've been in Sunny Hvar, nobody knows that. Because you won't tell anyone you sent that money to. You won't reveal his name and name. Which is perfectly logical, because if you discovered the name and last name, you might find a connection to you. So it makes sense that you keep that name secret. There'd be money in the budget if there weren't all these affairs that burden your rule so you could manage the budget. When you brought it in right away, we told you that it was unrealistic and we didn't want to correct it with amendments because it was not allowed to be corrected. We immediately told you that it was unrealistic because you planned it on the assumption that GDP growth would be 2%. And it was certain that no GDP growth would be and that we were actually entering a negative growth rate. Which makes sense. Because your GDP rates have been dropping since you came to power. In 2000, you left the country with a negative growth rate. And yet you will leave her with a negative growth rate when you lose that power. Next time, you'll do it. Next time. It was in 2000 when there was no global crisis or recession. It was just you, your ability or incompetence, your habit of spending budgets waste without criteria. That's where you kept your habit. The problem is here, with this bill very simple. You don't need that big brain, or the big speculation. It's just that we're gonna help those who are out of a job or we're not gonna help them. The SDP suggests helping them. You don't. All right. That's your answer to them. That's your answer to those who lost their jobs today, yesterday, who will remain tomorrow. That's the response of this government, that's the response of this parliamentary majority, that's the answer chosen to govern this country. Your answer is, you've lost your job, the SDP proposes to increase your fees, but we don't. We won't increase your fees. We'd rather spend our budget money in shipping affairs, lobbying and non-transparent purchases in the sea. That's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29001	Thank you very much. First of all, an esteemed colleague, Boris Kunst, came forward to correct the allegations. Here's your colleague, Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29002	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before I correct a whole series of incorrect allegations from fellow Stazic, it would only be questionable what is true. I have to really thank him for listening to me very carefully when I was talking, but unfortunately he couldn't remember what I said, and there's the problem. So then I'll just make it right that I never said in this part that 2580 kuna is too much, that's your invention, for whoever's unemployed. But I certainly said, I know you're not that close with math, but I said that 2100 kuna is less than 2580 kuna. I believe you'll try to take away the digitron, and you'll calculate that's for sure exactly what I just told you, so you don't have to correct me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29003	Thank you very much. In addition, an esteemed colleague, Andrew Hebrang, applied for correction of the allegations. Here's my colleague Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29004	Thank you very much. For incorrect allegations colleagues should take half now, but given the short time I'll only have three. It's incorrect for us to claim that unemployment is falling. Take a look at the Bureau website, from February 2003 to February 2009, there are less than 36,000 579 unemployed or 10.1%. You need a computer I'll lend you. It's incorrect that we just spent, as you say, money on lobbying in Washington because in the next day we become members of NATO. It's in the paper. I'll loan you my paper. And it's incorrect and incorrect and immoral to claim that 15 million kunas have been subscribed to the MORH trucks and you're the chairman of the Commission that has yet to determine that. You prejudge, and from this we suggest that the commission will work. But we're in most of it, so we'll keep you under control.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29005	Thank you very much. The correction of the allegations was further reported by a respected counterpart, Roncevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29006	Mr. Stazic, when you accepted the duty to be the chairman of the commission established by this High House to investigate the circumstances surrounding the purchase of military trucks, I assumed that you would at least refrain from your offensive and accusing comments for a short time. It's not for you, because I believe that nothing can be fixed in that part of you, you've taken your stand, but still for part of the public people who failed to transfer the program when you answered the word, I'm going to correct your incorrect quote. No overpaid trucks are paid, the price is objective, all in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. If you cannot accept this, I am sorry, but as chairman of the committee, I ask you to refrain from your public comments before any paper in this comprehensive file is read.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29007	Thank you. And for the correction of the quote of colleague Markovanovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29008	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague Stazic, quotes, saying, "It was in 2000 when there was no recession and crisis, it was just you..." and it's like that. In doing so, normally on purpose, forgetting everything that happened over the past few years on the destroyed land, on all those investments, at least 3 billion kuna from the budget for the resolution of the consequences of the war and the rest. It is easy to compare us today with other countries, because it is already forgetting what was before and perhaps on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29009	We now have three reports of replicas. First honorary colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go, fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stazic, I will, as well as my colleague Hebrang, invite you to look at the website of the office and read this. "At the end of 2008 and early 2009 there was a significant increase in newly registered unemployment records compared to the same period a year earlier. A significant increase in unemployment in inflows is the result of a decrease in economic growth, i.e. a decline in the physical volume of industrial production and real traffic in retail trade in recent months in 2008 and in the first months of 2009. The largest number of newly reported come from the processing industry and retail sales, but the reduction of employment and other activities. Most of the newly reported work experience comes due to the expiry of the work contract for a certain period of time, but the relative number of new ones is growing significantly due to the cancellation of the work contract indefinitely due to the reduced scope of the job. Increased unemployment inflows and reduced employment will lead to a significant increase in unemployment levels in 2009. year." Croatian Institute, not any one, Croatian Employment Institute, March 2009 colleague Stazić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29011	Replication response. Honorable colleague of Hebrang, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29012	Thank you very much. My colleague Sobol injured Article 209. The Rules of Procedure because she was correcting something I didn't say. So, completely wrongly corrected me... My name was mentioned, I did not compare in 2009 and 2008, but yours in 2003 and ours in 2009. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29013	A lot of statisticians have been called today, so I believe that by listening to us these days, they're going to put it in the tables and we're going to have accurate reports. Comrade Maras, you're still holding the plate or... I don't think the warnings are helping here between us. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29014	We should work a little bit, Mr. Vice President. No, this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[I've urged three times already, four times.]] Article 209 is injured. Mr. Hebrang, nothing is caused by the breach of the Rules of Procedure to respond to the replica. Well, Mrs. Sobol can touch her rep colleague, Stazic, any part of his debate. So, please, Mr. Vice President, we'd have to react in these cases because then we'll never avoid doing any damage to the Rules of Procedure without reason and using improper business regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29015	Thank you for your instructions, because this too was not an invitation to the article and the injury, but how it should work. I agree with you. If we correct the allegations, we correct the allegations, if we want to replicate, we have a right, but then let it be a replica, etc. Representative Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29016	Mr. Vice President, please. The Rules of Procedure, Article 209, was injured by fellow Hebrang. In my replica, I started my presentation: "A colleague of the Stazic and I will invite you, as my colleague Hebrang invited you to read the Web site of the assembly also to read the website of the Bureau." Excuse me, colleague Hebrang, that's what I said. If you need to look at the stenogram and I don't know what you're reacting to. And Mr. Vice President, it's yours, among other things, to clarify when a situation like this arises.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29017	Here I've made it clear, and this is the best thing when a fellow representative of Hebrang says goodbye, sees that he accepted the information in a way or experienced it in a different way than it was interpreted. And let's see how all this together has been accepted by our esteemed colleague Stazic, because he applied for a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29018	My colleagues Sobol, who are responsible for your replica, I will say that this is not a debate on the statistics of the Croatian Employment Institute which one side will manifest as such or interpret, and the other one. This is a debate about whether to help living people, our fellow citizens who have lost their jobs. This is not a debate on our Rules of Procedure either, so let's distract ourselves from the subject of making sure that someone was correcting the quote or actually holding a replica. This is not a debate about a fellow Hebrang who invites us not to lie, and that's exactly what he said to himself that he lies at least 10% when he speaks. This is a debate on whether we will accept this legal proposal and our fellow citizens who are left without a job to provide a decent life or whether we will tell us their life is not even about their dignity. And so I ask, I call, not to allow these attempts from the opposite side of the HDZ Club to turn this debate into other streams with our corrections, with our replicas and by imposing ourselves as a topic. The theme isn't them. He's not a colleague of Hebrang's, he's not a colleague of Kunst's. The theme is neither Racan's government, nor the topic is not the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29019	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29020	Don't thank me. It didn't start blinking. The theme is...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29021	Thank you very much. Next, a respected counterpart, Zeljko Jovanovic, applied for the replica. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You say you can't understand what Mr. Kunst is talking about. Well, you can't understand him, because unlike him, you're explaining with this proposal what the SDP Club is trying to achieve. You have a goal and you know how to reach this goal, to make life easier for the unemployed people in Croatia who lost their jobs because of the incompetent government. And my colleague Kunsta doesn't know where he's going, and he's going to get there in Kunst's wonderland, to paraphrase his colleague, Doric, and there's no need in this Kunst country to cause a panic over his resignation because he needs to take it as a new opportunity. In Kunst's wonder country, he is the chairman of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, which calls for the demystification of media articles on the dimensions of unemployment, as he says over-inflated headlines cause fear and panic for workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29023	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29024	Well, Agent Jovanovic, I think your name is something like that, it's injured Article 209. The Rules of Procedure because there is no Kunst's land. There's a country. He does not know it yet, obviously he has not yet realized that Croatia exists and that you live in Croatia, Mr Jovanovic, not in Kunsto's country. Because if you lived with me, then you'd pay me some rent for it, but I wouldn't hold you very well. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29025	Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29026	My colleague Kunst injured Rules of Procedure 209 because in his act, he insulted me as a parliamentary representative, which he had no right to do, and I ask you to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29027	My colleague Jovanovic and everyone else. I can also take a table or what since I've long in football and yellow charts bring. But this way we won't get anywhere if we don't discuss what's the point of the debate all the time. Any other correction of the quote or almost every one is at least in part of the replica. We speak in replicas on the subject, but then half of it is a second topic. But somehow we've created such a climate in many debates before. I would like to discuss exactly what is very serious, which is suggested, which is what different attitudes on each of us are right, what you are talking about, and which is why Stazic also volunteered to respond to the replica. Dear fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29028	My colleague Jovanovic, at the moment I discuss the rights of those who have lost their jobs, to help them fully understand your bitterness, I fully understand the bitterness. And calling out actually one once union leader who allegedly fought for labour rights, and I understand that now you are offended by the insolence of those same labour rights at a time when you live off the pay rather than the union salary, so you don't have to worry about them anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29029	Thank you. We have another application of the replica, distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Stazic is... So, Mr. Vice President, let me repeat all this. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Here's a colleague, Stazic, voiced in his statement that Mr Hebrang was less unemployed than she was last year, so 2007. I wouldn't be so sure if Mr. Hebrang wasn't right. I believe there's a smaller number of unemployed, so that's on that statistical list, but I wonder where those 3,000 are to say they're gone. Therefore, they did not spill into the number of employees, especially in the number of employees in the economy, i.e. in production as someone said earlier today, the production activity here. Many people have found a way out of this unemployment problem by one principle, which is from school or from the university on the market. In order not to apply that principle to people, then citizens who graduated from high school or college sought a way out in business and abroad. There are no statistics anywhere on how many young, educated people have left Croatia. Therefore, unfortunately, the number of unemployed decreases, if it is true then it is, in some ways, a sad truth because we know where these unemployed go and how Croatia stays forever, I would say forever, not on temporary work without young, educated people. So we are surprised that the rate of higher education in Croatia is almost constantly 7.8%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29031	Thank you very much. The debate was further applied for by distinguished counterpart Kronoslav Markovanovic. Here you go, pal Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I think the debate has already gone far, so we'll somehow get to the end and vote. I have to say, here's what I'm listening to. I'm listening to my colleagues from the SDP and my colleagues first of all from the SDP reading portals, news, tables there, so we're taking that as an argument right now. And sometimes they are probably, sometimes they're not. But I have to say, here I am getting ready for this, let's say at 7:00 in the morning I listened to the radio Zagreb first program. And what I've been waiting for. A complete black chronicle. So this is amazing. From ink in Slovenian tombs there from Croatians to Croatians to, immediately the balance was because it was necessary to immediately mention a few crimes in Pakrac and so on, is that by chance there was no import ink and so on. Coming here, the continued blackness continues. And a little bit of that reminded me of having to say in my own time that hit that "Paint on black" is either black or black. Because obviously all this is happening is coloring in black so we actually feel like we're in a tunnel, and in a tunnel in the middle of the dark. Finally, you can see the output of a little light and where the big SDP is written. However, the people listen, understand the possibilities of this country, and I think it will be difficult to pass. Because your law which, not only that law but all 24 other proposals, you said you had 25 people like to hear. Normally because it is populist, because everything goes very well if “what if it were. ” But we heard it costs about 300, 328 million times 25. So under 6 to 8 billion some are probably and more expensive should be to implement these measures of yours. And if the finance minister had six to eight, 10 billion free be assured that the global crisis wouldn't touch us. Then they'd be selling everyone a way out of it. And getting out of the crisis isn't that simple despite the fact that you've taken 50 measures. Because the world's greatest minds are working precisely on how to get out of a crisis, so it's not that bright. I'm glad there's only one, here's only one that's been paid, I guess I don't know from who or was promised anything that says there's a crisis in America, to continue. But take a look at the foreign portals, and you'll see that they have a similar opinion. So, fire me in a crisis, burn others in a crisis, but their governments are incompetent, so they went into a crisis according to your claim obviously, and our government is incompetent, our government is not prepared for the crisis or anything like that, but you're announcing, here I hear a fellow Stazic, announcing a new government will come, the new SDP government will come to get us out of this, we've had a chance to look at this show, so we haven't seen that obvious. So it was short and unfortunately and it was a little too much. Apparently, the manipulation of the unemployed is extremely large. He was not yet a single SDP representative who did not say another number. How many more unemployed a day. But if someone in HDZ happens to say a number, then it's an attack. It's an immediate attack like you do, so we've got the exact sources. According to some sources, it's 200 and 300 and 500, so I don't know how many. It's going to be a few thousand or so more, I guess. Namely, it is necessary to distinguish the unemployed from the notice of dismissal. The most recent layoffs work at this point, some to put pressure on, to go on blackmail, to return to work on Sundays, to return to the cafes smoking. So, to apply the law is delayed and so on, it's pressure, it's definitely pressure by firing because we can't, and not say that people figured out a rough Sunday, they're gone by the department stores, but the crowd's on Friday, the crowd's a little bigger on Saturday, and people are buying everything they need, so from that announcement nothing. Because if there were two cashiers before Saturdays, now they're doing 10 on Saturdays and 20 cashiers per major department stores, so the employees just transferred them from Sundays to Saturdays. So there was no problem, but there, we heard it would ruin us, so I had to say it. I have to say that fortunately not every unemployed person is unemployed because even from what they get, no matter what we double, we'd triple their lives. I have a real example, since here we share in the city both the resurrections and the Christmases and we share the same as the pensioners and the unemployed that many of the unemployed have come to the work departments for a quick run, so they have to, I realize they have to work, they have to survive, but here it crashes pretty statistics. And what do we do, that's it. Yeah. So, normally you should watch it in this country, it's not all that black again. It takes a little watching that there's a spare so there's a harder time, and I'm not sure that's how black it's gonna come. In fact, even today, it needs to be repeated a hundred times, the four-member family spends more on cell phones than on all communals together, and I've had the opportunity to talk to people, that's right, but they don't know what to do with children, they don't know how to find a measure of their own, so it's not so black and it's not so bad. And as for talking to employers, I talk to employers every day. We've got about 1,000 in town, something even over 1,000. So far, we're tracking what's going on, they're not firing, they're looking for workers, some keep on looking for workers, clearly certain professions from the employment office when they're sending people, not once that the man who came from the Bureau threatened to hire him by accident. Is it, that's exceptions, but the exceptions where they're going to have to do really in the employment offices a little bit bigger inventory because then those numbers are going to be smaller. Well, I wouldn't over-analyze who's talking right now, I can just say that unfortunately I'm saying what's being proposed is too much to be applicable, and that we're going to go back to all of these remaining, I don't know how many laws you've prepared, that's for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29033	Thank you very much, colleague Markovanovic. We have six reports of replication. First of all, distinguished colleague Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Markovanovic, I will do it again for maybe some of the SDP colleagues who listen to me, but don't remember what I said, that from February 2008 to February 2009 the new unemployed are 2 730. Otherwise, look at this whole package of these laws, it's one prank. In fact, the SDP wants to plant packaging with a questionable quality which has already expired. The hoax of the unemployed and the introduction of decomposition is the aim of this proposal. And listen, you don't need that big mind. If part of the unemployed are not treated, but only one small part, then someone wants to disintegrate them and bring some unrest among them. They basically don't, here they don't talk if they want to help the economy, develop the economy. Then maybe we could talk about how the recession might be a chance to be a chance to create jobs for economic progress. No, they want to be aware of it under a disaster known as SDP disaster, and in principle they want to tell employers, you're the only one to fire, and the state will pay what we're proposing on this deadline. And fellow Stazic, it's true, I was a union leader and exactly, even if it was one of those, until I really don't know if you were ever any leaders or even household advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29035	Answer, colleague Markovanovic. If we don't put up the plates again, replicate the one who spoke, answer the one who replicated and brought this point in, as we have begun in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to the end. Thank you very much, colleague Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29036	Thank you. Well, I have to say, my colleagues, this house-to-home advice thing is pretty convenient because if we professionalized all the presidents of home councils, really, unemployment would have decreased significantly, right? But I just wanted to add this. Namely, this whole story of us passing on what's going on with us. Here, no one mentioned, today I'm looking at the news that the government has clearly helped shipyards survive. So, by ordering, there's no news today, there's no mention of tankers, no Zadar, no anything else, no Rivers, nothing is mentioned because our goal is to show that the situation is bad. So, such as, no one in the news mentions that our diplomacy has won a great victory in Europe because the vote 548:40 is a great victory of clear diplomacy of Croatia but we hear that you are carriers of really black news and even the one who dared to say I don't know the same in America is this mercenary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29037	Thank you very much. Next, a respected fellow representative, Gordan Maras, applied for the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I sometimes can't be surprised at some discussions, and so now my colleagues, Markovanovic, who probably requires the SDP's Club of Representatives to say that the government has been able to do so for six months since the crisis in Croatia began, has not proposed a single measure. Well, we just can't do that. That contribution that we wanted to make today and that we're giving all these months, at the 11th month we proposed all these laws, is to try to get the government to at least speed up, start up and suggest something. Here, for now, we have these intentions that we hope will be translated into concrete laws that this Parliament will discuss by the end of this month. And that's SDP's contribution, but don't ask Mr. Markovanovic to say that the government is capable when it's not because if she were capable, she'd prepare us for this crisis. They would have measures like all other European countries, like all the countries that have prepared themselves for this. Perhaps, here's another proposal, so we don't have to pass these laws that I've said fire measures for those people who are going to be out of work, I suggest something else. Help the industry to reduce the volume of business as some other countries have helped, reduce in that industry working week and subsidize it from the central register. This would be a concrete measure to protect jobs in these industries and that is what some countries have proposed. Here's specifically Slovenia three, four months ago, but we don't have any suggestions. And for that reason, don't ask us to say that the government is capable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29039	Reply to the replica of colleague Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29040	Just for a little while. We heard from your ranks today that actually the measures can be easily achieved, clearly all you have to do is raise the loans, you have to go into debt, and if we went into debt, then they'd say, "Look how much they owed." So we're going round and round and I don't think we're going to get hooked on this. And as for the measures of the European countries that have achieved significant success here, I would very much like to hear what countries have achieved great successes, where there is no problem, where workers are not fired, where everything is perfect. I mean, we're talking about some new stories again, so maybe it's not a country of colleagues, it's a country of your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29041	Thank you very much. Next, a colleague named Bozica Šolić came forward. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a respected colleague, Markovanovic, I tried my best, so I went a little further, so I took out the phonograms from earlier times but also looking at the period ahead of the elections. And here's a miracle. Before each national election, before each local election, the SDP offers the Croatian Parliament and the people laws where it takes great care of these proposals for people unemployed, about the socially endangered population, etc. However, this proposal today aims to show the SDP that it is good and that care is being taken. The SDP only takes care of the unemployed and not the Government which is not true, which confirms this existing law that the government is very concerned and that is exactly why the law was passed. But I will remind you that when you came to power in 2000, it must be mentioned today in this House, that you have brought a number of companies into bankruptcy, that you have disbanded thousands of people on the street, that people had no right, that you have passed the Law on the rights of workers and then you have denied them all rights, etc. However, I want to conclude one sentence. This SDP proposal is pre-election of their proposal. But you're not going to make the election well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29043	The election is everyone's right to prepare. The answer isn't necessary. Sign-up for the replica, distinguished colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29044	You see, fellow Markovanovic, the crisis has not come of itself or will pass by itself, it is not one flu or cold that comes suddenly as a virus. And you say what's partly true, it's not all so black, but it's true that it's gonna be some niggers and some people's whiter, but it's perfectly true what you said and it's supposed to be taken care of. As a result, we also have a legal proposal that many employers will take advantage of this time of crisis that even unfounded, therefore for no reason fire workers and when they do not need it, that is one thing. The second thing, to use this plight that we've all found ourselves in, not to pay workers the wages of the company has fallen into difficulty, not to pay them off other rights, to contribute mandatory, not to pay them overtime. And for this precisely because you mentioned this, I trust my colleague Markovanovic that you will convince the HDZ Club to support at least the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Penal Code, which we have just now referred to as the SDP Club of the Croatian Assembly, asking that such irresponsible employers are prosecuted by considering it as a major social hazard, failure to pay the worker because it is threatening both the worker and his family, and especially for those businesses, for those employers who can do so, and who do not, but remain in debt to both the worker and the state and draw personal profits from that company.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29045	Reply to the replica of colleague Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29046	Dear colleagues, if it's about your laws, suggestions, etc., if you believe in me, don't be likely, I certainly won't support it. But if this is what we were talking about, then measures towards employers are very much appreciated because there's really a lot of things. I have to say that as far as the first part is concerned, it's not all so black that some things have become black, but why. Like construction industry, housing. That's why I'm looking at us. I have to take my own example again. The fruit importer built several large housing houses, a merchant one also several houses. So there's no one who wasn't into apartments. And now that these apartments can't be sold and they can't, besides the bank's a little bit of a brake, and few people think if we run out of work what we're going to do and how we're going to pay for it, it's true, so they don't go into very much of a risk. And those who thought to buy a new car also said we won't now, we'll wait a minute. That's right. But the offer would go way beyond demand anyway. As early as a year ago, people were able to choose an apartment, and let's remember two or three years ago, all the apartments were sold in advance. But God, in business it's like that, and I think in a developed world it's like that. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29047	Replica. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29048	You see fellow Markovanovic, you say that the SDP picture of reality in Croatia, a picture of life in Croatia paints with black colors. How we show things to worse than they are and how we're so evil, so mean and then we put it all on the back of the current government. No one would be happier than the SDP if what HDZ announced ahead of the election had come true. That he had achieved economic growth rates as he announced, that he had achieved a better life for all people in this country, an increase in standards. No one happier than the SDP. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Not only is it your grief that you have cheated, deceived people, promised them one thing, and you have not fulfilled it, unfortunately for our citizens are also our citizens, no matter what they voted for you, no matter what they gave you a chance. But I got up to replicate not because of it, but because of something else that disgusted me. You say it's not so bad, because people spend more on cell phones than on communals. So here I'm talking about people staying out of work having nothing to eat, and you tell them less to phone and you'll have something to eat. Well, that's what disgusts me, that cynicism of yours, that insolence of yours, total insolence. So do you realize that whoever gets fired won't get paid next month so he has to buy the kids food, he has to buy bread, milk, clothes, shoes. And you tell him, so as you make so many phone calls, give it a little less, you'll get better. This is your relationship with these citizens and with SDP's proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29049	Replication response, distinguished colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29050	Well, here, I'm really sorry about my fellow Stazic for entering his monopolized area of cynicism. So never again. Let's just leave it for you, are you really a master? But you should say that I didn't mention that you're wicked or mean, you're an opposition. As an opposition, it's a normal thing to criticize the government, it's normal. Most of the things you do to me are normal. To what extent is that? You'll show it to people for finally all of this, all of these measures, yet pre-election measures, so let's just say it loud and clear, inconclusive because of the inability to carry out, but they're pre-election. Ha, what's there.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29051	Dear counterpart Doric, application for replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I listened very carefully to you, and unlike my colleagues from the SDP, I agree with you that this government is a very capable government. But fellow Markovanovic and the most capable governments must take proturecesian measures to make the damage as little as possible. I repeat, that the damage would be as small as possible. Why do I think this government is capable, but they were capable of all those governments before it in the last 20 years and why it's not all so black. Namely, this government did not allow the Republic of Croatia to become a state with a strong export economy. Imagine if we were in a position of Japan or South Korea, we were producing high-tech appliances, these and all these poor people around us in the recession can no longer buy their appliances and we would be on our knees today, but the Croatian government was very cunning, not going in that direction. It's all about imports and shops. They fail, quality products today we can buy for very small money, sell them expensive and very much, therefore the cunning moves of the Croatian government, extremely cunning and therefore we are not on our knees, so it is not all so black.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29053	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of colleague Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29054	Well, let's finish that, too. I have to say that a few days ago, we hosted members of the Irish Parliament, so I only had a chance, since we had lunch with them for an hour and a half to talk to them really in one other way than under protocol, where they really described our situation in Ireland. We swore until recently in Ireland, that it was like in Ireland, that this, that what, that GDP growth, that everything was like in Ireland would be fantastic. But they argue after 18 years, they'll probably lose power, because they just can't find a way out of this. They said a few reasons, but now I don't have time to list it. But I have to say about the government. Let's all watch, follow, listen to the round tables of our top economists. It's an honor to each and every one of them, because they have PhDs, too, they do. Did these people agree on anything? I saw nothing. One claims that you need a decline in the value of the kuna, the other needs a rise in the value of the kuna, the third says you need to earn, the fourth we go to zero with the budget and the rest. So it's really hard to listen to people and bring some measures. But I think the measures will be taken in time, that the government is still following, and I wish there were more optimists here among us, because I think it will soon be. And the world will sooner or later have to start with something, so from the center where the crisis came from, I guess when it does, too, and it's going to have to change my mind first of all about America, and it's going to reflect that better part of the story on us, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29055	Thank you very much. We've exhausted an individual debate. Finally, on behalf of the promoter, an important representative, on behalf of the Gordana Sobol Club, applied for a five-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29056	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A few months ago, only a few months ago in Croatia did not refuse to talk about the crisis at all. I guess it was thought that the global crisis was being mentioned, but it will not affect Croatia we, like everything, have done, did not come to us, and today everything that is happening to us, is being attributed to this particular global crisis. Of course, it is not wise to compare with others, each trying to find a way out of their own situations however they can and can, but there is actually one important difference between Croatia and other countries, so here and just before someone mentioned Ireland, in these countries the government is at least trying something. As a SDP club and in order not only to be criticised, we have spoken somewhere outside this Assembly Hall, we have also proposed a whole package of anti-recession laws between which one is an unforgivable part and this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Intermediation and Rights during unemployment which we consider to be one of the very important segments. In fact, we believe that those who, who already are or who want to lose their jobs in these times, we want in some way something more long-term to ensure such security in their incomes. Because I guess we're not fooling ourselves that in these times of crisis, much easier than maybe yesterday could have gone from the Employment Service to somewhere else. And I guess we understand that the problem has increased this long-term unemployment. As a SDP club, we follow and read, and among other things, what the institutions of this country warn us about, among other things, there was a Croatian Employment Service which said that there was a significant increase in the number of newly reported ones at the end of 2008 and 2009. That the largest number of newly registered unemployed comes from the processing industry, retail, but that the reduction of employment affects other activities as well. Most of the newly reported work experience comes due to the expiry of the work contract for a certain period of time, but that the number of newly reported for cancellation is also growing significantly due to the lack of time due to the reduced scope of the job. And according to the Croatian Employment Institute forecasts, increased inflows into unemployment and reduced employment will lead to a significant increase in unemployment levels in 2009. And what can be devastating when it comes to those persons who will be found at the Employment Service, it's a minorization of this data. Most of the objections were related to inequality. But colleagues and colleagues have no imbalances, because our final proposal when it comes to the application of this law will depend on the fact, because this is the first reading, we will be talking by the second reading whether it will be January 1st or may be already on April 1st. So there is no concern that those who have already, whose right to compensation has expired, will continue to receive it. The amount of compensation. Well, the amount of compensation we didn't determine by this proposal of alterations and additions. The amount of compensation is offered and stands and this does not change in the existing Law on the Rights of the Unemployed, related to the intermediation of employment, and we do not change anything there. So we don't influence that height and it stays the way it is. So we are open to certain corrections, but we really ask you to accept this proposal as parliamentary representatives, the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law in the first reading and to make the second reading and joint amendments possible and to improve this proposal. Because we can't agree as the SDP Club to bid on numbers whether 2000 and something new is more unemployed in February this year than February last year is a large enough number to make us do something, so we can do something about it. Unfortunately, we warn that the data for March, April, etc. will certainly be much higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29057	Thank you very much. Finally on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished colleague Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29058	Thank you very much, Vice President. First of all, I have to say that this really dynamic debate that we've been having about this bill has not been broadcast by television, so that's why they didn't have this one, so maybe it's because of those colleagues who thought it, so they did a little more theatrically for them. But as far as this bill is concerned, I said, and now I'm going to do it again. It is a packaging with a populist content of questionable quality and expiry date for only a few months. What's next? Why do I say that questionable qualities? Well, I've said it already, and I can't agree with that inequality of the unemployed that you're proposing this law is unacceptable for every man, normal. So you don't need to make a difference between the unemployed because you just said it yourself, and that's where you went into contradiction in this final word right now where you mentioned the problem of long unemployment. Did you mention him, did you? So why are you ignoring exactly the category of unemployed people who because of this long unemployment are in a far more difficult financial situation, material, social, etc. than those who are going to be out of a job this year? Because your law applies to making it clear once again, only to those who are going to be out of a job this year, and these others you're totally ignoring. Second. The length of the right to this payment is a trap in which, if you listen like this, some workers might fall in just because the time limit on which they will receive that fee is extended to 450 days and that sounds convenient. But what it means is, well, it's a bad message you send to employers, only you fire in this year under recession, and the state will cover it with your high fees. That's right. Which this government has prescribed. But why did she prescribe those high fees? So he can help the unemployed right now. But not to make a difference, but to help all the unemployed with the compensation they make from one. One this year. So you're sending one message to the employers only you can handle it, and the state is going to, no matter what it costs, the state is going to cover it. So, simply for this reason, this is really unacceptable, because you know as I said, the state has really brought a significant shift in this law that has been applied since the beginning of this year because it's no longer the 900 kuna that is received at the Employment Service, but it's like I said 70% of the salary average, so 50% below. What, I've been telling you these amounts that I don't repeat them to you again, which are really amounts that are significant and can help, normally they're never enough, but I can certainly help you more than 900 kunas that were once unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29059	Thank you very much. We have two credentials. First of all, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29060	Thank you very much. It's almost incredible, I'm going to correct one quote, and that's what Mr. Kunst said, that the intention of this law is to invite employers to lay off because then the state will cover all these costs. Well, I don't know, Mr. Kunst, who would fire an employee from his employers if he needed it, if, in cooperation with those workers in his company, he could create some new value. The problem with you and your government is that you don't create an environment where it can happen what says and crash of industrial production and everything else, and all the other economic indicators that are in Croatia today. That's, that's the problem, not whether we're going to help the unemployed with 900 or 1000 kuna for several months.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29061	Thank you very much. We've got another report of a rectification. Dear colleague Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well fellow Kunst, I really don't know but you in your twisting of what someone said or what someone writes you really became a master. ... So look at the present, great master that especially in indentation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look at the text of an existing law, so here we already have, it's not true that we are creating these differences, but in the existing law you have a different duration of compensation compared to the years of internship after which the worker came to the employment office. And when we talk about harder employment, I guess it's clear to you that in times of crisis, someone who gets fired because somewhere he's been reduced the size of a job that's much harder to get a job back than in times that aren't crisisy and there's a lot more free jobs. As a former unionist, you should know very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29063	Thank you very much. And finally on behalf of the promoter, the distinguished representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29064	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I thank all those who have supported our law. I also thank all those who, with certain remarks, have been involved in the debate. And given that this law has removed the urgent procedure and that the debate is being conducted in the first reading, I will repeat that all the remarks that have been made here can be respected until the second reading, so I invite you to accept this proposal in the first reading. I'll do it again. We're not touching the amount of unemployment benefits, we're just changing the duration of the payment of that amount. Not to increase payment time given the years of internships, we can document it with an existing law that has been in force since the beginning of this year, because it predicts that the cash compensation is obtained from 90 days to 450 days in total. We've only made a small correction within the work force, so the greater fee takes three months longer than it is in the current law. What have we heard here from the club and the HDZ representatives? We've heard that these are pre-election measures, that this is a message to fire workers and that it's a hoax, colorful packaging, questionable quality, and how else did you say that to your colleague Kunst, questionable qualities. That these are not pre-election measures we can document in a way that we are only in the first half of Parliament's mandate, and all measures concern state measures, not local measures, and in no way can they be pre-election measures for local elections. We don't tell employers to fire workers, because we don't actually benefit employers with any of this change. If he fires the worker, he'll get a certain fee for 450 days, depending on the time the worker owns, a little less than we suggest. And what would you say if this was a colorful packaging and goods of suspicious quality, what would we say about the government's package of 10 anti-recession measures? The only measure we know will reach the Croatian Parliament is the first, and that is the budget rebalance. And the budget rebalance is not working because she really thinks it's one of the anti-recession measures, but because it's not being filled with a budget with certain dynamics, so there's no planned revenue, and there's one great pressure for the public and the businessmen to go to it. What will this budget rebalance look like, and why do we not believe that it will significantly change the budgetary policy relative to that policy on the basis of which the budget is made? So because the remaining 9 measures that the Government is proposing as measures are not actually worked out and it is not visible at all how they will be implemented through the budget. I'm only gonna take one measure here. That's under point 2. Says dispensing the economy by untaxed giving. Let me remind you that since 4 December, the SDP club has been in the process of having a concrete law on this issue, and that the government has failed to give an opinion in those two and a half months, either positively or negatively, on this bill. That is why we do not believe that this budget rebalance will bring any improvement, any measures that could encourage the economy and that would affect citizens' living standards. To conclude, we will continue to propose certain laws that will contribute to the economy and contribute......... Let the president finish, just two sentences.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29065	Come on, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29066	We will continue to propose laws regardless of how you discuss them, regardless of how the Government systematically rejects them, because we are pleased that a debate that we have been initiating in this House has been opening for months. And when the government is inactive and we don't have government proposals for legislation to debate, then we're lucky our laws come to a debate on the agenda and they're not pushed to the very end of the agenda. I thank you once again to everyone who took part in the debate and I urge you to still vote on this bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29067	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide later.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29068	Selection and appointments. I'd like to ask Mrs. Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Nevenka Majdenic, to suggest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29069	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 28th session held on 12 March 2009, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Human Rights and Rights Committee of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament is appointed as a member of the ranks of all other religious communities, Mirsad Srebrenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29070	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The election and appointment committee's proposal was accepted by the majority of votes, 90 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 1 against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29071	At the 28th session held on 12 March 2009, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. First, as a member of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, it is appointed from the order of Representative Daniel Srb. And secondly, the current member of the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest in the order of MPs Anti Djapic on 4 February 2009 ended his membership in the Committee on Conflict of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29072	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This appointment committee proposal was accepted by the majority of votes, 94 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against. Thank you. We move to the item of the agenda Selection and appointment. I ask Mrs. Chairman of the Committee, Nevenka Majdenic, to explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29074	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The selection and appointment committee, the administrative affairs of the Croatian Parliament held at the 31st session held on 3 April 2009 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the member and the election of the Vice-President of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. First, a member of the National Council is hereby authorised to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy in the order of MPs Ana Lovrin. Second, for the Vice-President of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, Parliament's parliamentary majority representative Ana Lovrin is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29075	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion to vote. Please engage and vote. Score. The proposal was accepted by most votes, 99 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 3 against. We move to the agenda point Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I request the representative of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Damir Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29077	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 17th session held on 12 March 2009, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the County State Attorney in Dubrovnik from 6 February 2009 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 10 February 2009, to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Stipe Gabric, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed a criminal offence of power in economic operations referred to in Article 292(2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Mr Stipe Gabrić is a representative of the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, sent a request for approval to launch a criminal proceedings against MP Stipe Gabric. Following the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall be based on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make the next decision. An authorisation is granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Representative Stipe Gabric at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Dubrovnik, the number. CDO 55/07 sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia in cases of the County State's Attorney's Office in Dubrovnik No. For reasons of reasonable doubt, the CDO 36/04 has committed the offences referred to in Article 292(2) and Article 346. The Penal Code and the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Metkovic, number KDO 73/06, have been found to have committed a criminal offence of the abuse of power in the economic business referred to in Article 292(2). Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29078	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative and Vice President Josip Friscic signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29079	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Surely we, as representatives, want to and should be equal to all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And if someone has reasonable doubts about us, then we need to give the possibility on the one hand to prove that their reasonable suspicion, and on the other hand, that we, our own name and our work, will remove that suspicion. But if you've had a reasonable suspicion for years, and you don't get a chance to do that, then I doubt all of this together because our colleague Stipe Gabric is a parliamentary representative, and not because he's a member of the HSS club, but because he's being chased by a SWAT team before each election, so he's hiding somewhere, so the election ends, and then I see him in Pantochaka. Then he did this or that again in front of the other, and then again, as if nothing had happened because he was openly suspected of being mayor in 2003, it was one of the suspicions, that instead of paying citizens for the elemental accident drought with their consent there, he built a facility of public need. And now, I'm wondering, a few months ago, we removed the same Stipi Gabriæ Jumba, at the same request of an equally independent and independent lawyer from Dubrovnik, from the same state of affairs. I wonder if these files weren't in their drawers then, did they not come to Zagreb because the time is far away or is simply every few months or before each election we will be with the MPs in this way in any way... which I started. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am not asking for any relationship to be different from others but I am neither representing nor defending anyone under an independent company in this way to treat us as agents because we are public figures and because our appearance is certainly causing different reflections in the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29080	Thank you. A representative of Stipo Gabrić called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29081	I have to explain. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29082	Thank you. Representative Antun Vujic. I was told that Stipo Gabric first came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29083	I think it might be better if Mr. Gabric spoke in the end. We're completely in agreement on behalf of the club in what my predecessor said, and our predecessor. We don't think this is the time to raise questions like this. The parliamentary majority has already had a case here to declare itself twice different about removing one immunity and to consider how it will now be declared. I think the question of the possibility of raising different types of lawsuits is rather spontaneously and independently enabled and is at the same time related to political decisions that may have a great precedent and a great precedent for the reputation of this House. Everyone has to answer, but that's what it's going to take to decide when conditions for reasons go by that maybe someone's going to be looking for a removal of immunity right now. That's why we're opposed to removing this immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29084	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29085	I welcome you all together, and I need to explain what this is all about. This is about the famous drought in 2004 where the Government of the Republic of Croatia disbanded the City Council of the City of Metkovic, where 170 people were studied, 171, I was 171 and the Ministry of Interior then issued a warrant after me. When I returned neatly I checked into the Dubrovnik County Court where they said they weren't looking for me, that it was a local party from Metkovic. And after four years or five years, the procedure has been restarted. I insist on raising my immunity. I must say that at 10 o'clock today, I was at a meeting at the Ministry of Culture where I was bought with those money I was charged with damaging the state budget in favour of the city of Metkovic, that the money for drought did not go to the end users according to instructions then of the coalition government but that they went to the budget of the city of Metkovic with 160 people giving up in favour of the town of Metkovic and the drought. There was a museum council at a meeting today at 10 o'clock in the Ministry of Culture. In that building... by Austria in 1903 it is one protected building of industrial architecture, it will be a city library and a reading room, it will be an ornithological museum, meaning the museum of those birds of marsh which is one of the most famous in this part of Europe and will be the future management of the nature park. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking MPs no matter what, we're all equal before the law, to take off my immunity. I will prove my innocence before the Dubrovnik County Court. And when I got this now I went to my lawyer in Dubrovnik, he said it was a drought and I was obliged to inform about what it was about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-13-0.u29086	Thank you. Is there any need to discuss it? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. I am making a proposal to the Mandate-Immunity Commission to vote. Who's in? Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes with 66 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 12 against the accepted proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. That would have put me through today's debate. I announce the 18th Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. Proposal for a bill on the prolongation of housing loans in 2009, first reading, P.Z. No. 254, Proposer: SDP representative club. I wish everyone a pleasant holiday by Wednesday when I see you. Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the session and move on to - Proposed law on the prolongation of housing loans in 2009, first reading, P.Z. No. 254 Proposer: The SDP representative club is the Proposer of this act on the basis of Article 129. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall apply to the adoption of this law the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law. You took the materials into the boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
