ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33083	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs. I thank you for inviting me to propose a report on the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008. The Ombudsman’s office began on 1 July 2008, temporarily in the Assembly, and from 1 September at the address Savska cesta 41. During the period covered by the report, preparatory operations have been carried out for the establishment of the office, selected and arranged business space in which the office is located, the Rules of Procedure and the Internal Order have been adopted, and the procedures for the exorcism and appointment of the Deputy Advocate and Deputy Advocate as well as the procedures for the recruitment of statesmen and officials have been carried out. It is important to note that from July 1st to November 1st, the office had only me, as the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, and under the contract for the work of a working assistant, driver and accounting manager. 7 jobs, i.e. the Office for Professional and General Affairs, have been established with the assistant attorney, deputy and deputy. By the end of 2008, however, only three of us, two office employees, were employed. It was not possible to fully implement planned employment under the Internal Order Regulation since the establishment of a tendering commission was delayed until early November, when it was scheduled for the deputy and the deputy to take office, because the implementation of the tender required two representatives of the Commission’s offices. The office was officially opened on November 19th. The office's priorities are monitoring, implementing measures from key domestic and international documents. The office was presented to the public through the participation of the Ombudsman in the media, at expert meetings and through presentation of the work and work in 7 Croatian counties. The arrival of the deputy and the deputy and the activities became more intense. The offices in the county are represented in the stands that gathered representatives and alliances and associations of persons with disabilities, as well as institutions, district offices, authorities and media. There was an opportunity for the office to get acquainted with the specific problems of people with disabilities in these areas and to encourage inter-resorial cooperation. These tours showed that the position of people with disabilities in rural areas is far more unfavourable than those of people living in urban areas. There are about 500 thousand people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia according to statistics. Each of these persons, regardless of where they live, should have equal conditions for the exercise of their rights. All right, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia addressed their proposals to discuss the importance of their rights and interests in writing, telephoned and to come to the office asking for consultations from different areas. At the time of October 1st when the records were established, 256 submissions were received with 185 being opened as an object. I stress that on the phone there are 434 consultations required. This does not mean that these are simple conversations but are conversations that lasted an hour and more, since the specificity of the office's work is such that an extremely large number of queries come by phone because people with disabilities have difficulty moving and often a particularly complex situation in rural areas where the availability of information and accessibility is the biggest problem. The largest number of cases during that period concerned the exercise of rights in the field of social care and pension insurance. They were equally represented in terms of accessibility, employment and work, as well as initiatives by persons with disabilities. Then they followed the order of objects related to the other areas. Even data from a small sample obtained in the first few months pointed to the most significant problems of people with disabilities. The most obvious problem of accessibility. This is one of the 5 conditions for the exercise of all other rights and social inclusion of persons with disabilities in the life of the community. It's not just about architectural obstacles, it's about communication barriers. The main problems in the field of social care, pension and health insurance are the lack of information on the rights, ways of achieving them and inequality in the application of certain rules, as well as the difficult availability of services provided by these systems. The largest number in pension insurance concerned extremely low pension incomes, in particular in the case of disability pensions, i.e. the assessment of the medical committees of the pension institutions. Especially when establishing criteria for a professional disease which is a premise for a more favourable... Retirement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A series of complaints followed the initiation of the complaint to the Administrative Court whose resolution is under way. Most people consider this system to be bureaucratic and insensitive to the needs of its users, so they also show a high degree of mistrust in cases where pension insurance law is dealt with in accordance with the existing positive regulations. Often with infidelity, they receive the fact that there is no longer any compensation for physical damage, except for a small number of people whose physical damage is determined as a result of a professional illness or injury at work. Although the areas and services of pension on enquiries and the required clarifications by the office were answered in due time, in some indications there are dilemmas which are the case with children's extras for users with heavy damage and after 27 years of life that are entitled to a child's allowance before 2001. A large number of people complain about insufficient and clear explanations and solutions that are not recognised by some required right in the pension scheme. The analysis of complaints in the field of social care in many areas notes insufficient inter-resorial cooperation, in addressing complex problems of people with disabilities, and the lack of joint planning and activities to which social care institutions should be. As far as health care is concerned, the problems listed refer to the fact that there are prejudices against people with disabilities in health care. There is no provision in healthcare institutions for the information of parents or adults on disability regardless of whether it is a disability that occurs before or after birth, resulting from illness or accident. In addition, as in the judicial system, construction and communication barriers are present and people are often not sufficiently educated about certain types of disability. Since social and health reforms are under way, we must stress that restrictions affecting all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have an even greater impact on people with disabilities since their needs are significantly higher and their incomes are much smaller and are often on the edge of poverty, and thus their position is far more invisible. For this reason, the office is even more under pressure because these restrictions have been reduced or denied some rights. In the field of education, parents of students with developmental difficulties, persons with disabilities and teachers face problems of outdated and unadjusted textbooks and curricula and programmes. There's a question of assistants and assistants in the class that hasn't been systematically resolved yet. The problems with architectural barriers, sign language translators and such are common. It is positive that through almost all documents the need to integrate students with developmental difficulties into a regular system of education and education is withdrawn. The Office advocates that students with disabilities, parents of those students, and teachers with the experience of hours with them should be involved in the process of laying down rules relating to students with developmental difficulties. Recognizing the office as a place where counsel can be given on how to protect against violence and abuse the office has addressed women with disabilities by complaining of psychological abuse and exposure to humiliations from family and community. Despite their encouragement to mistrust with institutions, they did not have the courage to take measures to protect themselves. Abuse and violence against people with disabilities especially women with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties as the most sensitive group in society is a major problem. Only by coming to the D.A.'s office did I realize how complex it was to protect the rights of persons with disabilities in all areas of life and at all levels, from local to state. In the case of persons with disabilities, it is not only crucial to exercise the right but also to include in the life of the community through their equal participation in education, employment and decision-making processes, i.e. in all segments of the basic life and life of the community. The special interest of the office is hiring persons with disabilities. In the far most unfavourable situation is a group of people with disabilities who are qualified for a particular occupation through specific programmes or even regular educational programmes and because of employers' prejudices, they have no opportunity to show their working potential. Despite the existence of a programme from those for skilled professions to higher education and incentives guaranteed by the Employment and Professional Rehabilitation Act, employment in many areas is particularly difficult for rural and economically underdeveloped people. It is therefore our responsibility to point out the abilities, abilities, and value of disabled people. Active participation of people with disabilities in the media should be encouraged, particularly positive examples and should be focused on changes in negative stereotypes of people with disabilities as people who are not able to be regretted and who are always in need of a caritative form of assistance. The Office wants to act in order to fully accept the fundamental rights and human values that have been provided to people with disabilities for many years through various caritative forms, which are the capacity, the right to choose and control their lives, equality and solidarity. However, unless society creates preconditions for their achievement, they remain only at the declarative level. It is estimated that the Republic of Croatia has a number of good regulations, in particular national documents based on the Convention and the Action Plan of the Council of Europe, but there is still much to be done on the procedures for the unconditional application of these documents, their harmonisation and the adoption of new or amended documents, which is indeed a challenge for the office in partnership with the associations of persons with disabilities, alliances, the Government of the Republic of Croatia but, in particular, to representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you for your attention. I'm open to questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33084	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mrs. Gordana Sobol Committee on Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33085	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Attorney with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At its 19th session, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed a report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008. In the opening statement, the Ombudsman stated that the Office addressed the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in writing, telephone, e-mailing for advice and information, instructions, recommendations, proposals or only support. In total, 256 submissions were received in the short term, most of which concerned the exercise of rights in the field of social care, pension insurance, accessibility, employment and labour. The debate that followed on the committee expressed the belief that, of course, the next report would be more extensive. It is pointed out that it is obvious that access to the right persons with disabilities varies in terms of whether it is an urban or rural environment. It is also indicated in the discussion of certain cases of child abuse with difficulties in school development. The debate warned of the inequality of rights, the frequent violation of the rights of people with intellectual difficulties, and pointed out that the biggest discrimination suffered by deaf people. Some board members warned that individual negative cases should not be generalised since it is obvious that the tolerance and sensitisation of society to the needs of disabled persons has grown significantly. Furthermore, the need to define a teaching standard for teaching assistants has been highlighted, it has been warned of insufficient work to ensure accessibility in all areas, with a large part of the responsibility at local levels. It has been warned that the difficulty in hiring people with disabilities stems from a system of education that educates them for the interests of today's labour market inappropriate, outdated and often unnecessary. It is encouraging that education of children with developmental difficulties enters the national educational curricula, which provides a scientific, professional, programming and infrastructure level. After the discussion, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the conclusion that a report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33086	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, Mr. Representative Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33087	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Attorney-General for Persons with Disabilities, fellow MPs. At its 23rd session, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. The opening statement on that committee was also submitted by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities. In short lines she met the Committee on activities undertaken during the reporting period and it was stressed that part of the time, most of the time devoted to promoting the work of offices and presenting offices by county. Furthermore, inaccessibility, i.e. existing architectural barriers that pose obstacles to persons with disabilities for full participation in all areas of life, has been highlighted. The weak or low employability of disabled persons, communication barriers faced by blind, deaf and deaf persons, abuse and violence against disabled persons, are all perceived problems during this reporting period. In the discussion on the committee, it was stressed that quality co-operation between the Advocate's Office, the Resorship Ministry and associations that protect and promote the rights of disabled persons has contributed to improving the position of disabled persons. Moreover, the institutional framework has been pointed out to create preconditions for improving the living conditions of disabled people. In addition, it was also pointed out in the debate that the Republic of Croatia is one of the few countries signatories of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Faculty Protocol with the Convention. The debate also stressed that despite the many problems faced by people with disabilities in recent years, significant improvements in the quality of life of people with disabilities have been made. After a debate that was quite exhausting and implemented, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to conclude that a report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for the period from 1 July to 31 December of last year was accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33088	Thank you very much. Does the government's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33089	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Attorney, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. ... So it's still moving, and I'm glad that Mrs. Slonjšak is sitting right here in front of us, so when she speaks on behalf of the promoter, then things are still moving forward. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to thank the Attorney General for the disabled on a comprehensive report despite the time-limit and in the conduct of my duty. As he supported her appointment, the SDP Club also accepts this report. We in the SDP club strongly advocate the civil, political, social, economic and cultural rights of persons with disabilities that we have demonstrated through our policies by adopting the first National Strategy for Persons with Disabilities from 2003 to 2007 and has shown the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities adopted by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the SDP Club in 2005 as the first anti-discrimination act on persons with disabilities confirmed by this House. We are aware of the fact that people with disabilities are a hidden and isolated minority who is faced with various restrictions, unfair participation in society and put in a position of political helplessness. They are still treated on stereotype assumptions that do not reflect individual abilities and cannot participate in society in an equal manner and contribute. Unfortunately, this has grown into permanent discrimination and prejudice, taking the opportunity of equal opportunities. It would be incorrect to say that we as a society do nothing, but the question is are we doing enough. The very fact that existing laws protecting the life of people with disabilities, no matter how high they are, cannot be implemented throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, raises the question whether these are quality laws if they are not enforceable. Most people with disabilities live below the poverty line, their incomes are actually social benefits that cannot cover even the basic needs of life. They are often called the creators of social clientism because they live on social giving. But from what else to live when the system of education that assumes integration is still not adapted to an individual, or to the possibilities of disabled people when they are discriminated against on the labour market, etc., they do not enjoy a minimum of human living standards. Only now is the lack of good and enforceable social policy, the inequality of the system when the country is in recession. It's breaking down the most in this sensitive population right now. The Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities in Article 6 which regulates the delirquent and way of working amongst other things states: "The Advocate for Persons with Disabilities follows the application of policies, national strategies and programmes of the Republic of Croatia relating to protection and rights, interests of persons with disabilities.". Madam Attorney General, in your report, you mainly called for the Convention, but in this case, I think it would be much better if you followed the implementation of the National Strategy on Equalisation of opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015, then the situation would be much clearer and more specific given that the National Strategy has carriers and deadlines. They would then see that in the field of family action, to a extent of five, providing different forms of quality non-institutional support to persons with disabilities and members of their families for the purpose of enabling freedom of choice, which also means the adoption of a personal assistant law for people with the most difficult type and degree of disability. The law, according to a valid and binding strategy, was due to be completed in 2008. We're already in the second half of 2009, and we don't even have a draft law yet. There should have been a special regulation, but we are witnessing that we have not yet defined what this means is the most difficult disability and that the pilot project of a personal assistant continues as a pilot project and not as a law. I think it's too much to say that this year's budget rebalancing has not provided funds for the personal assistant institution. In the section "Life in the Community", measure 1 defines ensuring a coherent approach and providing quality community support services, or strengthening associations of people with disabilities at local level. The deadline for implementing this measure was 2007 and 2008. We are in 2009 and the funds by rebalancing the budget are reduced precisely in this position, which means that measure 2 provides quality services in the community and alternative forms of accommodation that allow the transition from accommodation to life in institutions in the community has not been implemented, that there are no indicators of implementation, there is no known number of persons who have left the institution, there is also no report on the quality of life in the community, nor are the funds unfortunately not provided. In the chapter "Social Care" and pension insurance, item 3, which envisions raising the quality of professional work in social care institutions was the deadline of 2007. Among other things, a psychosocial rehabilitation programme was to be implemented and evaluated. Even here, the deadline for implementation is not respected and no means for continuous work are provided. Under measure 7-to develop a professional and analytical basis on the possibility of improving the rights of persons with disabilities, and propose the adoption of appropriate regulations. Under point 1-to draw up a professional and analytical basis for improving disability rights was to be completed in 2008. Under point 3 of the draft rules for improving disability-based rights was due to be completed in 2008. Under paragraph 5, a regulation on professional rehabilitation in the pension insurance system was due to be completed in 2007. Also, under point 6- make a unique list of all the damages, for all categories of people with disabilities, regardless of the way and the cause of disability. It was supposed to be over by the end of the 7th month this year. Create a legal basis and establish a first-degree body of art that was due to be completed in the 12th month of 2007, and we are still talking about working groups. Chapter 2/7 on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons to measure 1 required the evaluation of the appropriate existing legal and current rehabilitation policies and employment of persons with disabilities by an independent body. Among other things, activity number 1-produce an analysis of the applicability or provisions of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and Sublegal Acts and their compliance with the existing one has not been made, and it was due until 12 months 2007. Under point 2 of the draft amendment on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and sublaws has also not been made, and the deadline was in June 2008. To the extent of the 2nd guarantee of protection against discrimination in the field of employment and work of disabled persons, a study on discrimination in the field of employment and work of persons with disabilities should be carried out, a strategy for the development of a strategy to prevent identified discriminatory forms of behaviour in the employment and work of persons with disabilities and in accordance with national documents, as well as European Union documents, was set at 12 months 2008. Due to all this, and respecting your monitoring of the Convention, which is binding on the Republic of Croatia, I ask you to request a report on the implementation of the National Strategy or to warn the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the failure to comply with the deadlines. Once again, I warn of the fact that there is a narrowing of the space for the work of persons with disabilities organisations due to budget rebalancing. Many of the rights that have been achieved through the projects have been suspended. In order not to be misunderstood, I am not talking about acquired rights, but since the area of protection and quality of life is mostly covered through projects it is a worrying and alarming cut with the rebalance of the state budget that directly endangers the questionable quality of life of people with disabilities. I will only call on some items that prevent the implementation of the National Strategy and also the Convention. The annual fee for the use of public roads and tolls for the most disabled has been halved, no less than 50%. Reduced object accessibility item for disabled persons by 605,000 kuna or almost 50%, and we were just saying that accessibility is one of the main problems. Social empowerment of disabled people has been reduced by 25 million 980 thousand kuna. The affirmation of the rights and policies of persons with disabilities is reduced by 475 thousand kuna. For 10 million and 200 thousand kunas, funds for programmes and projects aimed at children with disabilities and adults have been reduced. The Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has been reduced by 4 million 265 thousand kuna. Otherwise, as far as the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund is concerned, many irregularities in the work of the fund have been observed. No one knows where the money from that fund goes, who pays it, who doesn't pay, whether someone paid the fine for their non-payments, etc. Often the funds from this fund are used by the Ministry of Economy to patch up their holes. It would be good to check the work of the fund, whether it is exclusively established for the needs of people with disabilities or serves for something else. Reduced incentives and relief in employment for 3 million and 900 thousand kuna. In the Ministry of Education the implementation of the National Strategy has been reduced by 40 thousand kuna, care for mental and physical damage by 10 million and 700 thousand kuna. In the Ministry of Health and Social Care at the point of guaranteeing mobility and accessibility for persons with disabilities for 2 million and 400 thousand kuna, which is precisely the accessibility of one of the major problems or obstacles to the integration of disabled persons. Removing architectural barriers in health institutions also for 2 million and 400 thousand kuna. I have often heard the thesis that people with disabilities themselves are guilty of their condition, that they are not persistent enough in seeking their rights, that they should work harder on their own, etc. I wonder why social care centres, disability associations and other institutions should protect this area and provide information on rights and obligations. What's the system for? We must always remember that we are just the service of citizens and nothing else, which they pay very dearly. Let us not forget that these people are exhausted to the extreme limits by the great bureaucracy for the achievement of even the smallest of rights. They're often given false information and they've been spinning around in circles for months. You have rightly warned of the inaccessibility of information in any form or form. It should also draw attention to the unclear criteria for achieving parent status, to the exercise of assistant rights in teaching, etc. The area of persons with disabilities is Pandora's box and I believe your office is making every effort to warn of existing problems. I believe that the entire system will also be launched to bring these problems down to as little as possible, thus raising the quality of life of people with disabilities, as well as protecting dignity. I'm only sorry that you seemed, I think, of all the clubs here reported a debate, a HDZ club, a SDP club and a HNS club. I believe other clubs will also come up for a simple reason to once again draw a line below this area that is very, very important because it is almost half a million Croatian citizens. Once again, I stress that the SDP club accepts your report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33090	Thank you very much. The D.A. called again, Mrs. Anka Slonjšak. Here you go, on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33091	Here are my thanks to the MPs, Mrs Škulić, for your comments, suggestions and suggestions. I would like to say that indeed the office has been working for a month and a half, we can say with us five, and we haven't been able to adequately implement all those measures, that is, all those controls that you think would be justified in our work. We aim to make this year a lot, i.e. this year's report for 2009 will be much more detailed and clear, but I do call on you who are parliamentary representatives of a disabled person to really help the office in such a way that we can, of course, only improve and achieve the rights of persons with disabilities and the adoption of new regulations, because as an office is one of the tasks, that is, part of the work, the possibility of affecting changes to regulations, or amendments to regulations. However, we are not able to do so when we learn of a certain regulation that has already passed the ministry and that it has already come to the Parliament's agenda. And as for the rebalancing, we did find out when we were already on the Committee on Human Rights and Minorities, the national minority, which was extremely difficult to react already because in three days it was already in the assembly. I say, we are a new young office and we really need support and support and those in this, we can tell the system longer to help us come together as soon as possible to better solutions for people with disabilities. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33092	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33093	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Ms. Attorney-General with his associates, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I am especially looking forward to the report, the first report by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, and before I touch the report myself, let me refer briefly to the presentation of my colleague Škulić in one sentence. I must say that I am sorry that we have not heard more about the report from her, because I have been given the conclusion according to her report that in the Republic of Croatia there is nothing wrong with people with disabilities and that they live very badly and that everything is black, black and only black. But I will still try to stick to the reports that are ahead of us. Here, as we all know, the first Ombudsman for disabled persons was appointed on 30 May 2008, and she began to act on 18 June 2008. The lawyer's office for people with disabilities started on July 1st, and officially opened on November 19th 2008. And I must say, to the great joy of all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. All of us through, here for many years we have been known how much we have fought for the Republic of Croatia to get the Law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and as a person with disabilities and as a representative in this House here, once again I have to thank all persons with disabilities and here present counsel who, even then, as head of the project of a personal assistant, fought for the law to be passed as soon as possible and that the Republic of Croatia has finally obtained a defender for persons with disabilities, and we owe all our special thanks to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, especially the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor, who gave her maximum in order to sensitise a complete working group that worked on the making of the law, and this High House to understand all why it is necessary to adopt the Law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. Furthermore, during the period covered by this report, the Ombudsman also visited a large number of counties to present her work, to present the office, to meet persons with disabilities, associations and alliances with work, legal opportunities and powers of the office, and to find out in more detail what problems these problems are most often encountered by persons with disabilities. To this end, the lawyer and her deputies also participated in various gatherings, symposiums, round tables related to the problem of people with disabilities. During that period, citizens, associations, alliances with requirements were addressed, and the report shows that the office received a total of 256 requests through regular mail, e-mail or fax, and 434 citizens contacted the office by phone. Allow me to say that during this six-month period for which the Ombudsman submits a report, I am pleased that this is not such a large number of complaints from the Ombudsman's office given the total number of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. The citizens addressed the demands from all areas. The report also shows that the Ombudsman’s office for persons with disabilities established good co-operation with the staff attorney’s office, the child’s office, as well as with the prosecutor’s office for gender equality and with international institutions. We believe that the media are extremely important, extremely important for sensitizing the public, i.e. raising awareness of people with disabilities, and the report also shows that the office has established good relations with them, and during that period it commits to making these relationships even better to raise awareness to people with disabilities even higher levels. This report is thorough and comprehensive, and since it is submitted by the office for a period of 6 months, it is sufficient and extensive. It shows that, with the extensive job of establishing an office, filling jobs, organising offices, the lawyer’s office since the first day of its operation, he has solved the problem of people with disabilities. So the office was doing exactly what it was founded for, which is to protect, monitor and promote the rights of people with disabilities. I would also like to point out with particular satisfaction that the great work has been done by the Ombudsman herself with her deputies, so the Ombudsman who is also a person with disabilities with his deputies and other associates who confirms that in the Republic of Croatia, there has been great progress in equating opportunities for persons with disabilities, and that persons with disabilities can carry out the most responsible duties, as this also causes persons with disabilities to destroy the most difficult barriers, those in the heads of people and show that they should be treated as well as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but in the spirit of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and all national documents. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community club support this report and here we want the Ombudsman to continue a lot of success in the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33094	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33095	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Madam Attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I think this is a unique moment in our Parliament's work, because first of all, I would say maybe even a zero report from a brand-new institution that some have welcomed with a skepticism and some with a very open approval. I'm saying a zero report, because he can't cover the whole of 2008 but from the very fact that Mrs. Attorney General entered her duties in June, and that she practically completed technical conditions, spatial conditions, and even human rights only at the end of the year. The report shows that all these six months of office not dealing with themselves, but that it mainly deals with public relations, which is extremely important, because information about roles, tasks, goals, and then the legal powers of lawyers for persons with disabilities in this case, must reach as many persons with disabilities as possible, and then members of their families. Because let's not forget that in a large number of cases it is those who are direct assistants, so helpers to people with disabilities and that they are those who allow a large number, especially those who are less mobile to move through life. In this context, we must also be aware of the difficulties and limitations faced by the distribution of such information, because many people with disabilities, especially in rural areas, in areas of special state concern, many people with disabilities living in socially depressing conditions are not persons who regularly follow public communication means and cannot get information in time about the existence of an institution, that there is a qualified person at its head, that there are certain legal opportunities and powers. It is very important, therefore, that information on the new opportunities established by the Croatian Parliament by the decision-making law of the establishment of this Ombudsman is sought as often as possible and through the associations of persons with disabilities as possible, as well as through all social services that serve persons with disabilities in the part of the exercise of their rights. That is why it seems perfectly correct to me that Mrs. Director is first months, and for a good part of this year, that she will be committed to precisely contacting, opening channels of cooperation, opening up communication and towards associations of persons with disabilities and according to professional organisations, social institutions, public administration bodies, or local self-government, and I do not think this job will stop and will not be reduced for at least a few more years. Our experience with the oldest defence in the Republic of Croatia says that despite the fact that there are many years still most citizens do not have relevant information about the opportunities provided by this Ombudsman in the protection of individual and collective rights. It is of great importance for the establishment of the authority of the Ombudsman institution itself to bring together qualified persons, persons who understand the whole of the diapazon of the elements of this issue, so that it is also at the head of this office, that the Ombudsman is directly understanding all relevant problems that await and live with persons with disabilities. But what we're seeing from the other attorneys' reports, I'd like it not to happen to the D.A.'s attorney for people with disabilities. Already now she could see what it would look like when the Government sent legislative proposals to the procedure as an emergency procedure and found out at the last minute that some solutions were not in agreement with the relevant not only Croatian but also international documents. Look at the attorney general's report for the kids, and you'll see how eclectic it is. It's about 22 cases of regulation. I'd like the government to change its position in that sense and turn to the D.A. as a co-worker's home. The D.A. is independent, therefore autonomously and no one has the right to put pressure on that institution or even give it guidance for work. She is authorized by the Croatian Assembly. But the government must understand that the common interest of the whole society is, first of all, those who make decisions, so the government itself as a proposing, and also us in the Croatian Parliament as those who make laws and solutions, that solutions are based on the highest standards and the best results of positive practice when it comes to solving the problems facing people with disabilities, i.e. in preventing problems affecting that population. Let's not forget, at least I won't forget, I'll keep saying it. A year ago, the government promised us, if you remember, that they would send the so-called procedure. A roof law that will address issues so far open issues affecting people with disabilities. We do not forget that she openly reiterated this in the discussion of the proposal for a law on blinding allowance. Here's a year going by, and we haven't heard about it. I remind the Ministry of Health and Social Care that it is our duty to keep our promise because we know very well that the biggest problem of people with disabilities is the general attitude of society towards them, or the attitude of the authorities towards them that allowed the unprecedented discrimination of persons with disabilities, not according to the type and degree of damage or disability, but according to how to obtain disability or physical or mental impairment. We're not going to repeat that story. We know very well what compensation ranges are and how people are actually humiliated because that's discrimination, and that's according to the law we passed last year. And I am convinced that the Ombudsman for disabled persons will also come into the situation to assess this very dissuasive person, this great contradiction of the standard on the one hand in the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination and International Conventions and documents on the issue of life of persons with disabilities and practices exercised by power. The sooner it shows that there is no discount in this kind of conversation it will have a better position in the long term because practice shows that defenders then go softly in talks with the government, in principle on long-term paths just pile up problems. The Croatian People's Party Club, as it has openly supported the proposal to establish the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities, will also support this report. And of course we want Ms. Slonjak's attorney not only in this but also in the years to come, the time period at which she was appointed records the constant progress in the work of the Ombudsman but also a strong principled attitude that will narrow down the space of manipulation, discrimination and the spread of the space of the problem of persons or the population of persons with disabilities. In this sense, I congratulate Mrs. Slonjak on behalf of the CNS for teaming the office, which brought him to the level of functional drive and we wish her every good and until the year we see her with the first real year's report. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33096	Thank you. Mrs. Slonjšak on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33097	I thank the representatives of the clubs. It is truly an extraordinary honor for me to be the first attorney and the same thing this report has accepted. I thank you all very much. And I do say once again that the regulations and all that are made for persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are aimed at improving the quality of life in the Republic of Croatia as far as we are concerned, to ask ourselves, to cooperate with us, because the only way for people with disabilities to improve the relationship and quality of life in the Republic of Croatia is to involve people with disabilities in those decisions concerning themselves. Thank you very much. I will see you at the next adoption of laws, regulations and other necessary in cooperation with the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33098	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33099	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Ms. Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report for a six-month period of quality prepared from which it is evident that no matter what the office started with its work in July 2008 it was done very much both to promote the work of the office and to present offices by county, with very important contacts with associations and institutions acting in the interest of persons with disabilities. You are well accepted on the ground and there is no dilemma that very professionally, very well quality, dedicated, and you follow and protect and promote the interests and rights of persons with disabilities. The office must, of course, know the work of associations and alliances that gather people with disabilities in their membership, and the report shows that you received written materials from associations, which is a particular problem of association and membership that it gathers. And of course it helps you and allows you to make legal proposals according to the competent ministries and institutions that we from the SDP club will certainly support. What's this report for? This report serves to see what the office has done in the past, which has been passed legally and which helps to make everyday life easier for people with disabilities, easier and better. However, there is no great scale and great help from the great praises. And I therefore fully understand a colleague who has focused on problems in her presentation, what bothers people with disabilities because our goal is for our parliamentary representatives to distract the public, to draw the attention of the competent institutions that things can and should be better. There is no need to close your eyes before problems and there is a lot of problems and there is no point in either the HDZ or the SDP, and it is not the point in criticising the current government but only in the desire and intention to make a quality move for the life of people with disabilities. And that's why I think, Madam Attorney-General, it would be a good idea that, in the future, in addition to all of the usual segments that the report has, you have another segment that will refer to what Parliament has done in the past for a better life for people with disabilities. What the competent institutions have done, what laws, what strategies they have adopted in the past. I think special attention should be paid to the problem of hiring people with disabilities and I see a big and important role of the office in that. A person with disabilities who are able to work. And most of all, it is a very common situation for those who are employed to work on jobs that are not adequate to their education, therefore, to their professional preparation, their abilities, because unfortunately employers still have prejudice towards the working skills of people with disabilities. I can tell you that, I can tell you that in the city administration of Rijeka 12 people with disabilities were employed, we hired a blind person at a personal school and one person with cerebral palsy in a group of people with cerebral palsy. I don't know how public it is known that there is a law that regulates these things. And of course, if we don't have enough sensitivity for some things, then there must be laws. Of course, it is a very common phenomenon that we do not comply with these laws and that we do not carry them out. I think it would be a good idea if you asked the local self-government unit, the regional self-government unit for your next report on the number of people with disabilities. You're asking for simple information to be delivered. You even looked back at your report on that part so you said the office lacked data on quota employment since no record is kept, however it must be kept, absolutely must be kept. I believe you've already asked them for that information. So if the state institutions are unable to do so, I am sure that at least local and regional self-government units have awareness of how important this is and I suggest that you ask them for information for your next report. In addition, the part of the report relating to the area of pension insurance should pay particular attention to the fact that a person with disabilities is not deprived of the right to use a child's allowance acquired under previous rules, under which he has the right to an allowance and after 27 years of life if he has severe health damage, regardless of the property or income censorship of members of the household. Because under the new law, this right to a child's allowance belongs to a user up to 27 years old and it is not right for old users to be deprived of previously acquired rights under which this right can be used after 27 years of age. A few more words about housing. Persons with disabilities under the Convention have the right to choose a way with whom and how they want to live, which means that they need to find mechanisms for their adequate housing. Of course, this is not the solution, so we all agree on what has become a practice in some way, which is that when their parents die, they are placed in nursing homes. Living communities should exist for all persons with disabilities who want to live independently and independently according to their choice of both the place of residence and the way they want to live. I see here again the role of the units of local and regional self-government and I think it would be good to refer to them, I don't know what to call it a request or how to show more sensitivity for people with disabilities. I know the city of Rijeka does a lot in that sense, but I'm not sure about other local self-government units. My time is up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33100	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33101	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. Attorney-General with co-workers and associates, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are able to discuss a number of reports, as I understand in three reports, in individual discussions which each for themselves and the community, along with a report by the occupier, which I hope will also be on the agenda today, are one of the main points of view in the assessment of the state of society, so if you want nations and this is a report on the level of respect, protection and promotion of human rights on various examples, i.e. in a report by the Advocate General on topics concerning the legal certainty and equality of citizens and citizens and the degree of respect for their constitutional and legal rights. Furthermore, the Ombudsman has the task of protecting, monitoring, promoting the rights and interests of persons with disabilities under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, international contracts and laws, so it is a report on these activities. Then today, a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children will also be discussed, therefore, on the degree of respect and threat of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia and then on the report by the Ombudsman on gender equality in terms of the protection of gender equality as the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. So, before us is a kind of screening of the most sensitive segment of the functioning of the rule of law in the field of human rights on different grounds. So today I want to draw attention to the fact that we are also discussing something very important for the future of Croatia in the House on that day. So how do we know that Chapter 23 of the negotiations with the European Union makes one part of us human rights, i.e. respect for human and fundamental human rights, these special discussions today need to be seen in light of these important events for the Republic of Croatia. Now that we're talking about the first one of this attorney general's report for people with disabilities, let me take another look at it. This institution is the youngest to say so by its structure of 1. 8. so for me, looking at the data that we are now going to get real relevance is going to be when we can compare one year, half year to another. This is a start and I really congratulate you, Madam Attorney, that in the situation in which the office was created, and there were no possibilities and assumptions in terms of architectural building conditions of accessibility of persons with disabilities, this was organized with your associates and associates to work in it and that this space was available and open to people with disabilities. So we can't just say something will happen, not worry in time. But thanks to your engagement, that still got rid of it. In your report, Madam Advocate, you refer to the area of social care and pension insurance, education, employment and the work of the judiciary in general and protection against violence and abuse, the area of financing and information and raising level of awareness. In that sense, the colleague also mentioned local self-government with examples, but local self-government also has one part of the obligation to take over, not only central government, so to speak. In this report you referred naturally to education and included your comment on it. I have one good intention to say that the area of education and employment is not in that correlation that I would expect, because in fact, the basic assumption of the inclusion of persons with disabilities in all areas of the functioning of society is the one that stems from their education for the rights, so to speak, of the professions in which their knowledge and their special preferences and abilities can be applied. So I think that the education of people with disabilities should be reconsidered. Today, in a world of highly sophisticated technologies, we should also examine the possibility of such an example. for people with disabilities who have impaired vision or hearing, today they can apply very, very complex but cheap computer programs, transmissions of senses and visions because they are currently missing, in a very effective way, easy, one simple click and available financially, available if the pressure of all those who are dealing with disability issues towards the companies that do so is applied. Because when special programs are sought, and we sometimes have to look for them for people with special disabilities, so to speak, then it becomes expensive and becomes actually unfathomable to families, unfathomable even to social systems in very, let's say in countries that better finance the area of people with disabilities. So that's one element I wanted to mention. I also wanted to say, today there are a whole series of documents, you mentioned something also the United Nations Convention, etc., however, there is a whole wealth of treatment of this issue through the relevant committees of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe has come to us with an action plan and is preparing in 2010, half of 2010 to create a conference that will in some ways sum up what has been achieved here since 2006. The action plan shall cover the period from 2006 to 2015. So I believe that you at that conference will have something to say and show things no matter what we later engage in solving matters in this way by your office. I would also personally like to ask one question of principled education, about structure, whether we, long-term speaking, will decide on inclusive education in the regular education system or will choose more to finance special schools in terms of preparing people with disabilities who are older and later as they acquire new knowledge and then engage in regular education. These are today topics, for example, being led to the Council of Europe among the members. The countries of the European Union have different solutions, but they also have different trends in the development of this. You should think about it simply given the time that awaits us. I also wanted to say this, that it's unacceptable in this segment of education that today most of the people of the weaker vision are educated, perhaps most of it, for telephoners and telephoners, when we know that the technology of telephone stations has gone so far that it's quite one, quite another of the abilities we need to develop in people who are going to deal with therefore telephone plants. I would also like to say that, of course and crediblely, every government must demonstrate how much it really finances the programs that you have drawn, so the same issue of importing cars for people with disabilities cannot be different from the way you acquire disability. Here I would also look at something, since the increase in violence in society is evident, it is one area, the dark area, the dark zone, also violence of people with disabilities that are national minorities. Someone who may not have read the book "Breathe Me Vertically" by Isabella Fonsec may find an incentive to think about people with disabilities who are members of the national minority. And finally, Mr. President, Madam Attorney, we're probably being heard or probably seen by people who are in front of the screens. We are heard by those who can hear with radios. Maybe this is a place where a certain sign language and people who can't hear us, and they're part of our community, should hear us. It is not unusual to follow a series of shows and programs that are therefore approaching people without hearing or hearing damage. That would be one step past where we disagree. I believe it is in the sense and in the interest of the people you protect and in which you have our support and in which we accept your report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33102	Thank you. We have one replica, Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'll just take a quick look around, my colleague mentioned the education of people with disabilities and, of course, that's what getting up to and employment, so for the sake of general information, here's a colleague, the Republic of Croatia has long been identified as so-called. an integrated system of education of persons with disabilities, or children with developmental difficulties. So, as many children as possible get involved in the regular education system. You must know one thing, that there will always be a part of children in the Republic of Croatia that will not be possible, for which there will have to be tailored education, special education, and then also employment in some protection workshops. The number of professions, i.e. the list of professions, which are now attractive on the market, have been done, and which persons with disabilities, in accordance with their remaining options, could be perfected by being competitive on the market. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has, in cooperation with the Association of Persons with Disabilities and has included about 30 persons with disabilities in the last year who completed their occupations, so computerised various interests to include them in the employment system as soon as possible. So yet we've taken a big step forward and more today, and here's the good fortune and the satisfaction of all of us, we don't just have that education for the shoemaker, the carpenter, as it is already called, the watchmaker, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33104	Thank you. Mrs. Feric-Vac, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33105	Very short, Mr. President. Thank you. My colleague, I didn't say it didn't exist, I was just saying that this is one question that we have to deal with in the future because education in the entire system requires especially educated people in the education system, and we don't have enough of that, we know that. It is not at all a questionable debate, but rather a question of this, that we today must go from more than one person in 10 having one kind of disability. The number is about 650 million in the world, with the percentage in Europe far higher. It's up to 200 million. And as the population grows old and simply all health care measures improve, the number of people with disabilities in Europe will grow, grow and continue to grow. So it's out of this system, but just a question of how we're going to carry it out sustainablely in our system. Nothing else. All the measures that need to be, should be supported, but you should see where we are, how really when in 2-3 years this institution of the defense attorneys for people with disabilities achieves its middle age, how much that person used, so advice, how many times they told us, don't do us this or what's good, or we're not doing ourselves right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33106	Thank you. Mrs. Anka Slonjšak on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33107	Thank you. Here, I would just like to say about education and employment that we really are, in the last year we are only, I think, and in this year we continue our tour of the county, since we know that there are 20 and 21 counties, and that our goal is to inform each county equally, that is, to maintain equal stands. However, recently at a meeting, I learned that there are, in principle, occupations and educational profiles, such as, here's a banal example, a shoe builder. I mean, there's no interest in that at all anymore, but there's still an educational profile where people with disabilities are educated for that kind of thing. Of course, it goes on, and we all work together, that institutions work, that education really profiles work for those interests that are both on the open market and that it is possible for people with disabilities to be employed after that education because I don't think it's intended that when a person is educated for a particular profession, then end up in their home and again, economic dependence on their families, or guardians and those closest to them. I would also like, here in one county to know that people are still educated for textile occupation, and there is no more textile industry in that county at all. So these are some things that the Ministry of Education, i.e. the economy, must jointly coordinate this problem to get better as soon as possible. I would also like to call on another ministry, i.e. institutions, to really cooperate with all the defences because all of us aim to improve the rights, i.e. relations and interests of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and also especially in this regard persons with disabilities. Here, thank you very much again for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33108	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33109	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Attorney with my associates, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will look back on those parts of your report that I find extremely important and that I think the Croatian public should be further informed. The primary, abuse and violence against people with disabilities, especially women with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties as the most sensitive group in society, is a major problem. It is difficult to prove that there is violence due to misunderstanding or mistrust of the environment, inaccessibility with services and inaccessibility of appropriate communication with services, e.g. in deaf people. Often people with disabilities depend on the abuser economically and physically and are unable to apply the usual methods of defence against violence. When they are also encouraged to address the competent services, they face the inaccessibility of services and institutions dealing with the prevention of violence and intervention in cases of violence reporting. In extremely difficult situations, it's also about fear of retribution. The lack of tailored accommodation facilities for the purpose of providing victims of disabled persons is one of the biggest reasons not to report abuse and violence because victims are aware that they cannot get adequate accommodation, adequate to their specific needs. Furthermore, there is a problem with the welfare system. The largest number of complaints are currently related to the area of social care, and thus there is an impression of the problems of the functioning of this system in relation to the recognition of rights relating to children with developmental difficulties or persons with disabilities. However, from your analysis of the complaints that it is concluded that the public has a far more unfavourable picture of the functioning of this area than it was really about denying the rights of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties or the violation of their rights. In fact, it is common for citizens, and thus also for people with disabilities to believe that social care centres are called upon to resolve rights and who are not in their jurisdiction, such as Housekeeping. Furthermore, social care centres as basic social care institutions have over a hundred public powers, which require staff and other resources that are far below what is needed in most centres. This leads to an unfair provision of services, a delay in the process of resolving first-degree rights, but also in the long-term resolution in the second-degree. It is therefore extremely important by the competent ministry to get to know the general public about the powers and the work of the social care centre. Furthermore, I consider it a particularly important problem for people with disabilities, i.e. a key problem, employment problems. What is extremely important is to raise the level of awareness of society. Informing and awakening public awareness is the right way to faster and color employment for people with disabilities. Forest regulations mean nothing until citizens start thinking about what they can do to facilitate the life of a disabled person or at least not make it difficult. Out of nearly 430,000 people with disabilities making up nearly 10% of our country's citizens, a large number of people are reluctant to go public, largely due to the inappropriate relationship of society with them. The largest number of people with disabilities is located in Krapina-Zagorje County and at least in Istria. As is assumed, the highest number of people with disabilities is older age, 27%, and the lowest percentage is 5%. The most common causes of disability are 40%, followed by disability 21%, wartime disabled 10%, accidents and others. The situation of disabled persons in society regulates around 280 regulations governing the rights of disabled people, a large number of states and other bodies through which these rights should be exercised but also a social environment that is insensitive to their problems. It is therefore necessary to work on the harmonisation of regulations and the integration of institutions through which people with disabilities exercise their rights, but it is equally important to inform the public and raise awareness of the whole society about the situation and the problems that a person with disabilities has in everyday life. Discrimination of persons with disabilities, who make up about 10% of the population, is, of course, particularly present in employment. Their rights are also violated by preventing access to different institutions, such as health homes, schools, or hospitals where construction barriers have not been removed. The fact that disabled people are having a hard time working, we know from everyday life, and we even witness a number of cases when job tenders are cancelled, just because the job is given to a person with disabilities who has all the qualifications, but the employer doesn't want it. In the case of employment on the general labour market, this refers to the obligation of the authorities of the state administration, the judicial authorities, the units of local self-government, the bodies of other public services and various funds and other legal persons, owned or principally owned by the Republic of Croatia, to be employed for example by 31. 12. In 2008, at least one disabled person on 32 employees, in order to employ at least one disabled person on 16 employees by 2020. These obligations are a slight shift towards the protection of the right to work of disabled persons, as shorter deadlines could be set for their employment obligation. It is to be hoped that stronger incentives for the employment of disabled people and their professional rehabilitation will come from funds provided by the government. And finally, it is really important to make every effort to improve the lives of persons with disabilities, or the exercise of their laws of regulated rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33110	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33111	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's my colleague, I can really agree with you when you're talking here in that section about violence against people with disabilities, but I have to tell you that empowering people with disabilities is extremely important. Well, when it comes to violence, people with disabilities want to talk about it. The government of the Republic of Croatia has paid special attention to women with disabilities as part of the campaign against violence against women with disabilities. And in collaboration with the community, the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities has established a network that still today, thank God dear, works well. And I must tell you that women with disabilities have spoken of the violence committed against them. And of course it's not enough. This is what a complete society must take care of. But here I have to say that we are extremely proud of the network of women and that we are grateful to the Government for giving special attention to us women with disabilities in a campaign that she left in the media a lot of echoes. However, women with disabilities are not only discriminated against. Although we speak more when we talk about discrimination at all, we also talk about other people with disabilities. But the Law on Discrimination, here, has given us new and wider paths to finally manage to combat discrimination against people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33112	Thank you. At 10:51, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. We're finishing the debate. In the name of the SDP club, Mrs Vesna Škulić reported for 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33113	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. I once again commend your report by respecting all your efforts made by you personally and your associates. It is my duty as Parliamentarians to warn of those problems that you may not have been able to detect in such short time. Not to criticize you, but to draw attention once again to the ineffectiveness of the system, to non-compliance with the deadlines, etc. I, as a representative, am at my disposal to cooperate beyond any politics and beyond any policy. Not only do I bring you good stories, "Glory doesn't make you live." says one proverb, but to try together in our field to find opportunities to solve a systemic problem for people with disabilities. Of course you are independent of politics, and I would not want to interfere with your work on the political side, but I say it is my duty as parliamentary representatives to warn me of any problem that arises in society regarding the problems of people with disabilities. For these very reasons, I have also warned of a national strategy that is not respected or not followed by measures, which do not respect the deadlines set. For me, there is no negligible number of 444 citizens who have addressed such a short period of time because of a problem. So every fate is one life and one life is full. The national strategy since 2003 provides for the equalisation of all rights of all persons with disabilities. I'm warning you one more time, it didn't start in that area. However, one discrimination is still being announced, and this means that civil people with disabilities still have a ban on importing releases or imports of VAT-free cars that are entitled to do so, they can still use the right to do so even though it is a reason for us not to be allowed to do so because of the European Union. I warn of inclusive education. Also to the unclear criteria for the assistant in follow-up, employment problem, accessibility problem, monitoring the implementation of the National Strategy, respect for deadlines, monitoring the implementation of the UN Convention, etc. Also, I would agree with my colleague Ferić-Vac if it were necessary at least when it comes to this report to hiring a sign language translator or sign language interpreter to make this information available to them, this debate because you and their lawyer are also but I think that we have made an appointment here as perhaps representatives, here I am personally taking part of the responsibility upon myself. Once again, I congratulate you on your well-worked report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33114	Thank you. And final Mrs. Anka Slonjšak's attorney. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33115	Here, I can promise as head of this office that indeed last year as I have pointed out was the year we left with everything. 1.4. this year we organized ourselves, we already realized that we lacked capacity in the very work of the office, but what I can say is that I really want to be with my associates not only because we can say that we have only scratched all the areas that are really problematic and that are simply our daily life. I would like to say that our warnings, recommendations, requests to institutions and also to associations and associations of persons with disabilities really want to be recognized as an institution that can help us and who simply wants to help all institutions to simply make the best decisions that are implemented, applicable and not only prescribed, and simply to persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities, indeed to their families that we must say that it is about 500 thousand persons with disabilities that someone lives with these persons and that it is not 500 but that we can duplicate that number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that we thank all of you here on all suggestions once again. And to accept our warnings or suggestions and notices and that together here we can improve the quality of life of people with disabilities. Thank you again, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33116	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We are moving to the Ombudsman's report on the work of persons with disabilities for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008. Proposer: Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities was unanimously accepted by 104 votes. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw conclusions that read: The competent authorities of the state administration are to take appropriate measures in the course of their work to remove irregularities in the report. I ask that we vote on the proposal of the Constitution Committee, let's get involved and vote. Score. The proposal for a conclusion of the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system was adopted unanimously by 103 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33119	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The sixth report on the work of the Office of Advocates for Children submitted to the Croatian Assembly since the draft office in 2003 is presented before you. I divided my exposure into two parts. The first part refers to the report on the work of the office, on our activities over the past year, and the second part of the report concerns the status of the child's rights towards the rights groups or infringements as we have seen it through the monitoring of individual violations of rights as well as the state and occurrence of society. During 2008, the office handled 2075 new cases. Looking at what 989 were related to, there were individual applications, so addressing the offices of any individuals, parents, children, institutions, and others involving 2 thousand 387 children and a thousand 86 items were general initiatives of the office. The figures say that our work, or the number of cases we worked on in 2008 compared to the year before, was increased by about 20%. If we look at the structure of child rights violations immediately, I point out that violence dominates at 130% in the overall participation of child rights violations and then the rank follows the violations of rights to life with parents and parental care, violations of education rights, violations of economic, judicial and security, etc. which is statistically very comprehensively shown in the opening part of our report. Last year, five years have been completed since the establishment of this institution, acting within the framework of the Law of the Ombudsman for Children on the basis of complaints and on its own initiative, both in individual violations of children's rights and at the general level. Taking daily reports of child rights violations, meeting very often with children, responding to many and various issues of institutions, we have the opportunity to evaluate and evaluate children's rights on a daily basis, including child protection, the conditions of their life, the opportunities for their participation in society and the procedures of institutions that should protect their interests. Sometimes we are alone in doubt about whether our assessments are correct, how effective we are, and how effective we can be. We have therefore decided to evaluate the institution, evaluate and evaluate independent experts on our work and performance. Domestic and foreign experts participated in the evaluation. Our aim was to assess the legal regulation, jurisdiction, way of working and reporting on the work, powers and effective independence of the Ombudsman and to achieve the effects and possible improvements of regulations and practices. The evaluations of the evaluators have been published in the publication of the evaluation of the institution of the Ombudsman for children and they are encouraging and encouraging to us. Over the past year, we have addressed a series of recommendations that apply to children and I will only list areas where we have done so without individual guidance from each of them. Thus, our recommendations were related to children’s health, education, leisure, parental care, and a number of other areas of child life in situations where we felt or were encouraged to give a recommendation in an individual case or at a general level, or we assessed it as necessary and important to go with the recommendation. During 2008, we participated in the adoption of a total of 22 regulations, and I will list only some of them. We have also directed our comments and suggestions for improvement to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then with regard to family legal protection, judicial, education and a number of other regulations governing one of the children's rights or regarding their lives. In the past year, we have visited many institutions and places where children are staying, because it is our regular work, that is, our duty and our obligation. So we were in 10 institutions of social care, one institution for the accommodation of victims of domestic violence, 6 family centers, 9 hospitals, 8 prison institutions, a series of schools and kindergartens. Many children in larger or smaller groups visited us in our offices at all locations where we work in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka. I would only mention that the staff of the office participated in numerous international activities, in the field of protection and promotion of children's rights. The co-operation has been achieved with the Committee on the Rights of the Child of the UN, the Council of Europe and we are very active in the European Network of Advocates for Children, and the Network of Advocates for the Children of Southeast Europe, which we are chairing, and whose work we have been coordinating since last year. In our organization, we have successfully organized and completed an international conference on high conflict divorces, child manipulation. Following the achievement of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia over the past period, we can conclude that positive developments have been achieved in the area of promotion and protection of children's rights, especially in awareness of the needs and rights of children. But we continue to worry about the number of children who are deprived of their rights because of their failure to function or the lack of functioning of their protection. A number of areas where the Ombudsman’s office aims to improve the position of children in society by working on individual reports of child rights violations, active action at the general level, by making recommendations, initiatives for amendments and additions to laws, participation in a number of activities and cooperation with children, warnings, applications, etc. Often citizens ask us or figure out how we can't make a decision, punish someone, change someone's decision, of course our answer always goes in the direction that our actions can only be within the rules and laws where our powers are defined. I have already mentioned that violence against children and among children and by number and by number of cases is one of the most common causes of complaints to lawyers systems involved in the protection of children in such cases do not function sufficiently coherently. We have knowledge that certain schools do not report cases like this to the social care center provided for in the protocol on the conduct of violence among children, even sometimes cover it up. In the event that violence among children and social care centres is reported, they do not always have clear and effective answers to children’s actions and needs. The problem of violence in educational institutions still does not follow the taking of appropriate preventive and protective measures, so children's rights to protection against violence are still part of a school daily where educators often express their impotence or personal sense of unprotection. There is a lack of programmes to help children victims of violence and children who act violently as well as support for children who are witnesses and observers of peer violence. It is therefore necessary to pay more attention to the special form of preventive work with children and with their parents and school, to create a network of extended professional procedures in all the environments in Croatia where this does not exist and to include as many children as possible. We are also concerned about the phenomenon of adult violence against children. I particularly stress here the physical punishment of children who, despite good regulations and prohibitions, are unfortunately still justified and applied. There are also numerous reports that testify to the suffering of children in high conflict divorces. The social welfare and family protection systems, unfortunately, still cannot adequately respond to the demands that are being made before them. Social care centres are burdened with a number of obligations and the level and quality of their engagement in matters of family and legal protection despite exceptions cannot be assessed satisfactorily. The co-operation of the social care centre with family centres which can make a significant contribution to solving complex problems so far is not sufficiently established. Children without adequate parental care stay too long in children’s homes due to insufficient involvement of the welfare center and the slowness of the courts which is necessary to change. In the whole welfare system, it is necessary to ensure continued education of staff of childcare institutions, to introduce mandatory supervisory, professional support for competent institutions and to prescribe work licences. In the system of education and education, while mentioning the problem of inadequate response to the problem of violence among children, concerns the work of some of the educators, teachers, teachers and professional associates, as well as the directors who fill their primary role incompetence, often unaware of the effects of such work and relations with children. The priority is to create conditions for education of children under equal conditions and according to their abilities, and special attention should be paid to schooling children in non-accessible areas and in islands. In the area of children's health rights, with insufficient number of healthcare professionals, we also record a lack of division or institutions for children who need psychiatric help. In the health care system, starting with primary health care, the number of psychologists employed is insufficient, so we can say that children's rights and needs to protect mental health are insufficiently identified. We are still facing a problem of insufficient information from parents about the rights of children to health care. This is mainly due to the need to treat children abroad and to provide funds for the purchase of expensive medicines, which rarely results in exposure to the child in the media that parents address for help. We also witness frequent exposure of children, patients to the public by publishing information about their medical condition or pictures of a child in a hospital bed that endangers their privacy and dignity. In the area of protection of personal data progress has been observed, but infringements of children's rights to privacy warn that further information is needed on the protection and sensitisation of the public for the protection of children's privacy in all segments of life. The threat of children's rights to life is still apparent in transport, unminded areas, as well as in ignorance and in ignorance about ways to prevent sexual and other diseases. Together, we must do more to prevent alcohol abuse and other means of addiction and constantly review how preventive programmes are applied and how we can make them effective. In addition, it is up to society to offer children quality facilities for free time. Croatian society as a whole, we estimate, today it is more sensitive to the needs and rights of children with developmental difficulties, but we have not yet fully accepted and are not yet able and ready to respect differences. Changes can also be achieved by engaging in the strength of children with disabilities themselves, and then by their peers, parents, teachers, experts, media. The reactions of society to various manifestations of behavioural disorders in children and young people are often inappropriate and delayed. The basic task of experts, but also of society as a whole, is to coordinate interventions and networks of institutions with the needs of children from primary prevention throughout the population to appropriate treatment when behavioural disorders are already manifested. In doing so, it is necessary to include the child’s environment, school, family. Children who come into conflict with the law are often shown through the media as very dangerous and frightening, not questioning the role of society in relation to all risk factors, i.e. the timelyity and timeliness of the interventions taken by adults in order to prevent unacceptable behaviour. This way of showing children can be explained by the desire for sensationalism, but also by not knowing the real cause of the problem, by not recognising the needs of children and the necessity to protect their rights, as well as by not recognising personal, family, institutional and social responsibilities. In addition, there is too long to wait for sanctions to be imposed on minors when court proceedings are under way, although all proceedings in cases in which children are being decided should be hasty. It happens that the public does not recognise the slowness of the system as the cause of the problems related to sanctioning the perpetrators, but rather requires a tightening of penalties against minors which is in no way in agreement with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Prolonged length of proceedings, ineffectiveness of conduct, inequality of court practice, too slow to resolve complex family-law relations in practice cause and deepen a number of problems which directly harm children. We therefore consider the necessary continued education of judges in order to even the practice in relation to the needs and rights of these children. All observed forms of child endangerment in Croatia are even more dramatic if they are related to poverty and economic hardships of the family and the environment in which children live. We believe that even in a child savings situation, it must not be spared. We cannot be satisfied with the treatment of children in the media in which we encounter injuries of privacy in both print and electronic media. In doing so, we face more and more electronic violence, which is manifested by the publication of offensive vulgar comments about the child on forums and blogs of Internet portals. Reports are also common due to child exposure potentially to harmful media content such as violence and sex shown on television in inappropriate terms, pornographic ads in the press, pornography on individual web portals intended for children. Also, we continue to note the lack of respect for children's rights to receive appropriate information through the media, especially positive and pro-proportional content, as well as frequent abuse of children in advertising. Work with children and respect for their opinions and needs is necessary in all areas. Our society still does not recognise the child as an entity capable of actively participating in the community, but mainly treats him as a protection and care facility. It is the impression that participation of children in society continues to be more formally achieved in order to meet international standards than as a reflection of true belief in the rights of children to participate. In conclusion, we can say that a child protection system would be better functioning and that better integration and cooperation of all institutions involved in their protection from the position of the Ombudsman for children, i.e. places where many information is being pooled and the problems with more aspects are worrying us from the lack of connection between the resistor and the use of expertise and multidisciplinary access to child protection as a society which has been identified and which has been given the importance and to take the necessary activities for the sake of better protection of children, we must not allow it to be marginalised and neglected. For the introduction so much, thank you very much. To your questions, I'm ready to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33120	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports? Okay. Vice President, Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33121	Here, I am speaking to you as Vice-President of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports to tell you about the 2008 report on the work of the Ombudsman for children. Namely, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport of the Croatian Parliament at the 21st session held on 2 June 2009 discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2008 which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman for children by an act of 31 March. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question as the home working body. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the report in question. In the opening presentation of the Ombudsman for children, she informed the board members that in 2008, the office handled 2075 new cases, 989 of which were individual reports of infringements of children's rights and 1086 of the general initiative. The number of individual applications as well as the number of initiatives is increasing each year. In a further presentation, the Ombudsman pointed out that he had seen the rise of violence against and among children and young people in the past year, and the work of the office was focused on the problem. She also warned of the long stay of children in the accommodation institutions and stated that there is still a slowness of the judiciary, i.e. courts in resolving family-law relations and making decisions concerning children's rights. The lawyer also noted that on average, between 22% and 25% of proposals for the regulation of the office are accepted. The Committee members pointed out that the report is very comprehensive and gives an overview of the overall problem, i.e. the proposal for measures and procedures to be taken to protect the rights of children's interests. However, some of the measures and recommendations have not yet been accepted or deficiencies in the protection of children and young people's rights have been removed. The board president stressed that it is unacceptable for problems to be repeated year-on-year as the prosecutor's report for children has been submitted and was also discussed in the introduction of a single item in the budget when it comes to funding for children, and the Ministry of Finance also reported on this issue. The Committee members supported the report in the follow-up to the debate and pointed out that the protection of children's rights and interests in the Republic of Croatia through the Institute of Child Advocates is one of the most desirable models, although not established in all European Union countries, and after the debate was held, the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion that a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33122	Thank you. Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, Committee Chairman, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33123	The Honorable Vice President, the Advocate General for the Children and fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held at the 24th session today discussed a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2008. In the opening presentation of the Ombudsman for children, the committee met briefly with the areas in which the office worked during 2008. Not to repeat what she has exhibited very extensively herself here, I will look only at the committee's debate and in the debate the committee specifically referred to that part of the report relating to children who have been economically exploited. In 2008, 22 individual subjects were received for protection against the economic exploitation and execution of harmful business. It was the citizens' applications, i.e. local self-government representatives, about the participation of the child in nighttime TV shows, the work of the child in selling souvenirs in the night hours, the exploitation of children in catering jobs and shops, and the requirements of parents to protect their children in the exercise of professional practice. According to the 2008 State Inspectorate, labour inspectors have received 150 requests from children under 15 years of age for the authorisation to participate in the production and recording of TV videos, advertisements and series. The inspectors granted their approval because they estimated that these activities do not endanger the health of children, although I personally keep it questionable. In the debate, the committee members stressed that better protection of children exposed to daily begging is necessary. It noted that greater engagement and co-operation by the Ministry of the Interior and the competent ministry, the centre of social care, and the competent courts in protecting children from economic exploitation are needed. There is also concern about the lack of acceptance, recommendations and proposals made by the Ombudsman for children to competent authorities. After the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion, a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33124	Thank you. The Committee on Gender Equality, Madam President Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unlike some representatives of the board, I will read this report in full, as the Vice-President of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports failed to read a part of the report. And that's just as a warning to colleagues to look at the whole report. At the 19th session, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2008. The annual report by the Ombudsman for children shows the work of the office and data on the degree of respect, i.e. the threat of children's rights. In the past year, the office has been particularly focused on the issue of violence against children and children. In 2008, it marked a significant problem of manipulating children and violating their rights during parental conflicts. The system of social care and family protection, unfortunately still cannot adequately respond to the demands set before them, partly due to overload, and partly due to the lack of co-operation of social care centres with family centres. There is a lack of preventive safeguards in educational institutions as well as programmes to help children victims of violence as well as children of violent behavior. There is a lack of skills in the health care system, i.e. the lack of the care department for children, as well as insufficient information from parents on children's rights to health care. For example, treatment abroad, the purchase of expensive medicines. However, progress in the area of protection of children's personal data as well as the sensitivity of Croatian society to the needs and rights of children with developmental difficulties is noticeable. In the debate followed by members and board members, this report was very positive. In particular, the participation of offices in the incentive and drafting of legal provisions has been observed, with the office also having significant cooperation with this committee. With regard to growing violence against and among children and some requirements for tightening juvenile legislation, the office has a clear view that instead of tightening, work on prevention needs to be stepped up. It is pointed out that the burden of responsibility cannot be borne solely by a child. It has also been warned of certain specific problems, such as the contact of children with parents who are serving prison sentences, the right to inform about the state's graduation, the diet of children in schools, the rights of Roma children, the problem of children without parental care who remain without accommodation after finishing high school, worrying about the trend of alcohol consumption in children and others. After the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33126	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mrs. Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33127	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Advocates for Children, State Secretary, Associates from the Attorney's Office, Madam and Gentlemen Representatives. Speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club on the child counsel's report for 2008. To begin with, it may be important to say that more than 900 thousand children live in Croatia. On the social context of child rights development, it may be important to say that the 20th century has been declared a century of children and, as a result, this attention has been greatly changed from child to childhood. Today, children are often said to be a special social interest group. Of course, when we talk about the social interest group, it should be said that emancipation from other stakeholders should actually be allowed. And actually to say that on the trail of UNICEF's trend of new understanding of children's status in modern politics, this is also becoming a Croatian reality today. Today, children are not exclusively concerned with the Ministry of Social Care, but also with the Ministry of Education, as well as with the Ministry of the Family. As a very positive example in the Republic of Croatia, just in the mandate of the previous Government, and for the first time in this government, the Ministry of Family, intergenerational solidarity and defenders were formed. As one of the important components that this ministry gives towards protecting children's rights is a campaign against the physical punishment of children who is unique in Europe called "I Need Love". I believe that you are already sufficiently sensitized on this issue, because today, Mrs. Attorney General and the representatives of the D.A. spoke very often about it, and I, too, myself, when we adopted that convention already quite often talked about it. It is often said that changing perspectives are said to mean that if there is no market, there are no children. So, from this conclusion, it turns out that today, in fact, children are dealing with not only the ministries that I've listed, but also the Ministry of Finance. I say this, of course, in order to understand the importance of inter-resorship and systematic cooperation between various state bodies and institutions in terms of children. The perception of children and childhood in the social world has changed significantly today, so this is also a positive example in Croatia. And therefore, our joint efforts, I believe, can be joined by the entire Assembly, not just the parent board and, together with the co-workers and Madam Advocate, the competent ministries and various bodies, the child should no longer be an object, but we are increasingly trying to make the child a subject, and on this issue, it is quite clear that the Office of the Advocates for Change of the Constitution. Something that I would like to point out on behalf of the club, and we also talked about on the parent board, is that achieving a balance between the response of the office on individual issues. And somehow it seems to me that just now the report of this Office of Advocates for Children, from year to year, is becoming more and more relevant and cannot be said exclusively that the guidance of individual examples is merely a taxative confirmation of daily work and, as an argument, supports that 35 calls are actually happening daily in the Attorney General's Office by children or persons who are involved in the protection of children's rights. It is already a matter of highlighting the instructions given by the Attorney's Office on individual cases. So, as I said, achieving a balance between response and recommendations in view of individual cases, it is very important to mention and a very valuable pro-active side, therefore to sensitisation on various issues, suggestions and instructions, and that is enough said by the Advocate in her presentation, so I would no longer repeat myself. But something we may not be aware of, especially those who are partnered in such relationships, which is to expose the negative role of parents. Very often, we are witnessing and following various media, presses, etc., who say that, in fact, under the cover of fighting for the rights of their child, highly conflicting partner relations are being resolved. So it's about conflict divorces, alimony problems, and many other cases of parental care that actually arises in this case in a negative form. And only for the end. Before I confirm that the HDZ Club will support this report by the Ombudsman for children, I will say that very often there is a question of this 25% acceptance of the office's proposal to the institutions. So the question arises whether it's a success or not. Of course, it would be ideally 100%, but I will use one sentence from the former Norwegian Ombudsman for children who, in the evaluation of the institution of the Ombudsman for children who was just released by the Office of the Advocates for Children, says "When asked for the best, look at Croatia." So much for me. The HDZ Club will support the 2008 Ombudsman's 2008 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33128	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33129	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Attorney General with his associates. The institution of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman for children is one of those that is constantly quality said I would develop at a good pace, and by the very fact that the institution that has made a major step in decentralisation or regionalisation of its activities is developing regional centres and not just its office in Zagreb. This report already shows how important it was and how useful it was because regional offices can and now it is seen that they do make an important contribution to bring the institution itself but also to the possibility of communication closer to people and to stop thinking about Croatia as the surroundings of Zagreb and to get used to the fact that important state institutions have their own regional addresses and in our area of living. What kind of alarms or at least warns from this report is that there is an increase in the number of cases in which a child's right is clearly violated and that is something that obviously the relevant institutions of our country do not react to. In fact, every year to sign a report that has over 250 pages, not to record concrete progress in that part of the responsibility that lies on other society institutions, I suppose is frustrating for both the Ombudsman and her associates, because in some situations they probably feel completely powerless. Of course, the delirious, rights and authorized attorney's office is relatively narrow. It seems that even those who can react because this does not require any special material means, any additional organisation or particularly great effort, and these are not responding to calls, recommendations, instructions, public debates about keeping children away from the public eye in all situations that violate their privacy, their personality, their rights. And on the other hand, it seems that too much space is taking the form of a public discussion in which a child's right is actually being talked about, being abused in a way that narrows down the teaching space for his quality of growing up. This is the most and best way to talk about it is for people who work in school, so in schools, who compare the present opportunities with the opportunities before where a parent rarely happens to be an open educator, a teacher, a teacher who honors his child's problems in a way that you are the ones who need to raise him. And last year, in this House, there was one thing that the public didn't follow with all the attention. In fact, we redefine the basic education system in a way that no longer is called an institution for education and education, but only for education. We are therefore an educational system, one of the primary education systems for which many consider it most important because it works out in formative years, and it seems to be empowerment in the process of education, and as parents we have extremely high expectations just as an institution that for us we are not home because we are not able to devote enough time to our child, because we forget the importance of family. So, for us to do a job that clearly no longer has any authority. It's a discretion where there's a large space of abuse of child rights. I'm sorry the government keeps ignoring the initiatives that come from the D.A.'s office. I hope that Ms. Jelavic's attorney will not happen to what happened to the occupier, that the government has been telling him for two years in a row that she took note of what he said. What does it mean to take notice? It means ignoring, it means not acting. Besides, we'll talk about this later. It is in some way a humiliation of the institution and it is a constituency because it is our authority, the authority of this highest House of Legislatives in Croatia. So this form of mockery becomes an obvious standard of behavior and this is seen in this report. If it is true that the attorney's office, therefore all capacities including it itself, took part in as many as 22 cases where a certain new law was defined, a new regulation or a novelty of the existing and that the promoter, and we know who the proposer is in 90% of the cases, it is the Government, with its ministries, ignoring these proposals. Then that's not a good sign. So we can also accept the government's position that it is difficult to act curatively, that there is no means, that the existing system is too hard, that we are not reforming it enough yet. But if this neglect occurs and at the beginning of the regulation, when standards are defined, then it is very difficult to resolve the consequences later on. Now in this pre-election campaign, let me say it as an illustration, there have been a whole series of cases of ecultaneous violation of children's rights, even as much abuse of children for political purposes. And there's hardly a party that could be excluded from responsibility. I can tell you a concrete example from my city, the final meeting of a political party, so this doesn't turn out to be a party now, I won't say which one gives to the graduates, and we know that more than 50% of the graduates in our city are minors because of that because they're finishing third grade high school. And it is said publicly and no one can react, there is no mechanism to prevent it, to abuse children for political purposes. And it's not the only case, it was all over Croatia. Why? Because PR, marketing experts suggest the leadership of political parties you use children because it gives birth to emotions in voters. It would be very useful and smart to define what is and is not allowed when it comes to political campaigns, elections, regardless of which is the elections for local self-government or the president of the republic. Because this situation is also frustrating for the attorney general's office. He can scream as much as he likes, he can issue press releases, not in the campaign at all. I have not seen in any newspaper a statement issued by Mrs Jelavic. And it doesn't come to those that it should come to. Everyone's ignoring it. I know reliably that the attorney's office is available and in this business to define, to define regulations, to remove children from politics, to get out of political campaigns, to prevent abuse, to define sanctions for those who do so. And this is an invitation to the government. First of all to the ministry, Ms. Kosor to define such standards as soon as possible and to find, therefore, the locations in which these rules should be incorporated, because she is the one who runs the resort that has to worry about it. The Department of the Children of the Ministry, whose head it is, must be able to define these standards and propose them to the Assembly to consult the Ombudsman's office for children first and not to happen if possible in the next campaign and we have presidential elections waiting for the children to appear as a means of political reckoning or collecting political points. The HNS Club supports the attorney's report and we certainly express our dissatisfaction with the fact that there are a whole series of cases in which there are almost no... of those who receive wages to correct these things, prevent them, prevent them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me that the Ombudsman's reports for this year will once again show that someone has seen their role as a clockwork of the system, as a democratic illustration rather than as an authority on the basis of which opinion should be acted. It seems to me that these reports, including the child's attorney's report, will once again serve as a fig leaf of the state's inability to protect those who are the most indisposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33130	SDP representative club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33131	Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney General, Madam Deputy Attorney General, State Secretary, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, the SDP Club will support this report by the Ombudsman for children because we consider it not only to be extensive but also very substantive and for those who are less concerned with this problem and extremely informative. We estimate that the Ombudsman's report for children well illustrates the state of children's rights and since we are familiar with the work in which the Ombudsman works, we also evaluate it as an authentic demonstration of the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues like to talk about children's rights, I would ask you to try to count with yourself at least five specific children's rights. I'm not sure how many MPs and advocates would succeed in that, and that's actually the biggest problem. And this is that we look mainly at children's rights on the occasion of a child's day or at the occasion of considering such reports in the Croatian Parliament. Children's rights and respect for children's rights are not only our good will, they are not just something that we have to do, it's our obligation as the Republic of Croatia, our international obligation and, however, we in the SDP hope that you all here in the hall think that it is much more than just an international obligation. The children are indeed the most vulnerable social group, they are under the special arm of the state, but it seems to me, and that is what the Ombudsman advocates that we need to do a little more to promote the active participation of children, the children from that prism of special care, the special protection, in fact, through that second prism of their active participation in society and finally ask them about making those decisions that concern them because very often we don't ask them anything about it. When we talk about it, my colleagues and colleagues, I want to say that, in fact, we, as representatives, get into this story because it's our job among other things, it's our job, it's all the tasks and all the bodies of the state administration and all the institutions that deal with children in one way or another. What we have in the SDP, but absolutely tragic, is that in these reports from year to year, one of these same remarks is repeated. Sometimes there are more, sometimes fewer, by priorities may be different but they are repeated. Finally, it seems to us that after five or six years of working for the Ombudsman for children, we must take a step further and all together make more efforts not to allow further violation of children's rights because this report shows that there are too many children in this country who are being violated by their rights. How do these rights get violated? The rights are violated by systematic ignoring counsel's recommendations, the rights are violated by late institution reactions, the rights are violated by law enforcement and the rights already mentioned are violated by ignoring the rights and interests of children by competent adults. Here I would like to point out, from the very report of the Advocate General, that I should single out a few of her recommendations which, I think, must not remain buried in this report and end up in some sort of Assembly archive here, but are indeed an invitation to action. We are witnessing that there is increasing violence in society among children. What's the new problem is that these age-limits of children who do violence among the elderly and vice versa are falling more and more. What we get from the competent state ministries in response is that everything is wonderful and wonderful. The prosecutor considers, I quote: "to pay more urgent attention to the prevention of violence among children, but also to violence in family and society", but at the same time we get the government's opinion on the SDP proposal that we are discussing this simply is not necessary. The Advocate-General shall request that Article 54 be amended. A family law aimed at equating the way in which fatherhood is determined regardless of whether children are born in a marriage or out of wedlock community, or where the presummation of the fatherhood should only be applied in cases where the fatherhood of a child cannot be determined by recognition. It was a media-related case that is a special story of media rights in a way that protects children. Such a recommendation from the competent minister, Mrs Kosor, shows that there is no intention of amending the law. It is similar with the right of a child to report for divorce and otherwise the problem of harming the right to live with a parent, that is, in that situation of fighting over children, mainly in very conflicting divorces where more and more children have been traumatized, and nothing has moved from the point at which we were at a few years ago. The same thing is either similar to changing practice when issuing passports to children divorced parents, since it is necessary to avoid the possibility of a child leaving the country without the consent of another parent. Nothing happened. As regards the maintenance of the child, the Ombudsman considers that the criminal liability of a parent who does not fulfil the obligation of restraint should be strengthened. Nothing happened, and now I'm just going to briefly mention a story about an alimony fund that was rejected, so announced that it would be, government nothing. The Advocate-General further considers it necessary to regulate the issue of establishing a database on perpetrators of gender delicacies to the harm of children. Despite these recommendations in the government, it has not yet been approached to create such a database. The lawyer also points to the non-implementation of the legal provisions relating to the sale of alcohol to children. Nevertheless, there is no change. The prosecutor points to an alarming situation in the number of pediatricians, but nothing happens. The lawyer warns of the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there is only one specialized psychiatric hospital for children and young people, that there are missing children's wards of psychiatry, but nothing is happening. One repeat from last year's report. The lawyer warns or points to the child-injurious attitude in the criminal proceedings, i.e. we had this recently here in the debate of a particular suggestion regarding the Court Act, rejected by the ruling majority. Among other things, the story of introducing health care to school, the famous story, despite the lawyer's appeals, despite the obvious need, despite the campaigns we today do not have health education in schools. The Ombudsman also points out the unfavourable position of children with developmental difficulties following the entry into force of the Law on maternity and parental support, since the regulation reduces the benefit of parents with developmental difficulties anyway. Namely, this fee is specifically lower by 338 kuna. It is a recent regulation adopted by this Croatian Parliament and proposed by our government. It should also be noted that the National Programme for the Prevention of Behavior Disorders 2008-2012 was not adopted and should be adopted. Neither the national sport programme nor the designated sports council prescribed by the law on sports was adopted and should have been completed more than two years ago, and related to preventing the threat of children engaged in sports. In connection with the problem of child protection against economic exploitation, the Ombudsman drew attention to the protection of the children of the beggars and suggested the adoption of a Protocol on the treatment of children in the cases of child abduction in the application, even a working group was established. However, the drafting of the protocol is not, that the drafting of the protocol is not explicitly provided for in some other national strategies, the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity has informed the Ombudsman that there is no basis but no justification for the adoption of such a protocol. Also, the national plan of activities for the rights and interests of children in 2006-2012 has not been adopted for 2007. One of the rights given by the Ombudsman for children is a violation of the right to the privacy of children, i.e. the right to the privacy of children in the media. The Advocate-General warns that there is no regulatory body to monitor the exercise of that right of the child, i.e. the violation of the rights of the child in the printed media. It exists for electronic media, but there is no such thing as printed media. There's still nothing in that area that's been done. The recommendation of the Ombudsman on the protection of children from advertising in schools submitted to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in practice has been completely ignored. The lawyer’s suggestions for the adoption of the Law on maternity benefits and parental support have not been accepted in the sense that the person who is a child of early age, entrusted with care and education, is recognised the rights that would belong to the same situation as the parent. No proposals have been accepted regarding the Code of Criminal Procedure that only a child's victim's authority may be a lawyer or that the victim's right to a free advisor for the purposes of giving a statement is recognised. Not even a proposal to amend the Penal Code has been adopted. No proposal has been accepted for amendments to the Law on Courts. No proposal has been adopted in the adoption of the Law on textbooks. In connection with the Road Safety Act, the Ombudsman's proposal to improve child safety is not accepted to strengthen the practice of sanctioning drivers for children who drive unbound in cars, tightening the penalties for carriers engaged in the transport of children in the event of non-compliance with safety rules and the like. It's all denied. The adoption of the law, i.e. when making the Foreign Law, is not subject to a proposal to prescribe the mandatory written consent of parents when crossing the border of unaccompanied minors. This list of proposals that have not been accepted by the Ombudsman would not be so problematic that the responsibilities and obligations of the Ombudsman as the authority of all of us here representatives and advocates in the Croatian Parliament have not been established by law, but it seems to me also by declared will, but unfortunately only by the declared will of all to truly protect children's rights. For this reason, we, as a SDP club, will propose to draw one conclusion regarding this report, which is to require the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt within 60 days a programme of measures to improve the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia, particularly taking into account the problems present in implementing the rules and proposals set out in the report by the Ombudsman for children. This same conclusion was proposed by the HDZ Committee on Family, Youth and Sport, although I hope they also read the Government's opinion in the meantime, because the Government itself is also aware that it does not seem to do enough to protect children's rights, the competent authorities of the state administration have tasked each of them to take appropriate measures in part to remove irregularities listed in the Ombudsman's report and that, in direct contact with the Ombudsman for children, they are further considering certain remarks. We hope, however, that the majority in this House will have not only the opportunity, but also the real understanding of the need and respect and promotion of children's rights, and that by accepting our own conclusion, but also, when passing laws that come to us on the agenda, among other things, a little more leads to interest in children's rights, and a little less leads to interest in the party's path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33132	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33133	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'd like to correct, I'd like to actually correct a number of incorrect allegations, but I'm going to quote just one piece of the quote that I want to correct, and that's conveniently referring to children's rights. That is simply not true because until 5 years ago almost no one, nor in this House spoke of children's rights. The person who sits here today as the authority of the Croatian Parliament after our presentation almost could resign because it turns out that none of the suggestions that the office made, so Ms. Attorney-General and her associates sent to all the competent institutions. It's almost as if nothing's settled on that point. So perhaps for the next exposure to prepare what it is, what measures it is, which were actually adopted by institutions, regardless of what institution the institution is working on, or even this parliamentary committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33134	Individual debate, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed counsellor for the children with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. This report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2008 deserves every commendation. It's getting more and more extensive every year. On the one hand, he talks about how the work is getting better, more and more involved, but he also talks about the sad fact that the rights of the child are being violated at every turn. This report shows how right we were when we formed this institution in 2002, that is, in 2003. That says we're more right today than when that institution was nikla. This report can be a visual example, almost at the level of scientific work. A template for all those who deal with children, child protection, in certain segments can also be an excellent basis for their work. Not only is it abundant in concrete examples, but there are almost no areas that are not covered. A child in relation to another and to any social relations that children enter. It also says that there are no areas where this conflict does not escalate. This report shows, it simply mirrored how in the state many things don't seem to be right. It's all reflected on children, more than we'd like to do and more than we're doing here to admit. The report except for the analysis of the good part, almost more than 1/3, which is the special value of this report is not only about the moaning, but what needs to be done. What some state bodies should do, institutions. It was said very specifically by Mrs Lugaric, and then it is said that it is not true. She reasoned on everything that was not accepted, and it should have been accepted and there is no reason not to be. But obviously there's not enough real support. It stands in the state at the level of one verbal support, but the real support here really doesn't exist. And even when individual solutions to a particular issue would not cost the state much in implementation. This means that children are being exploited, that children are being manipulated. And that is why I would like to take a special look at this report on this part of children's economic rights. Especially children's economic rights in single-parent families. And today it's the one, there's been a lot of talk about it, but there's little that's been resolved since then. I'll also mention the alimony fund. These are questions that do not suffer delays, procedures are long-term in divorce. The issue of restraint remains one big, big problem. This is something that the state should react spotily and thus save its own funds, not to mention how much it has to do with strengthening a civil and general and business morality. Because if it's possible that someone doesn't pay for something they're bound to, then that's where one almost morally falls apart. It's hard to look back at one part at all, a good part, let alone anything a child lawyer warns of. But surely the problem of violence against young people is a big problem. If the government admits it, but does not want it to be discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, as the SDP club suggested, then the question is why? So the government forbids problems, you can't even talk about them, because you're creating an ugly picture. But then that's the way, that's the first step so they don't get rid of it. Ignorance here won't help and escape from trouble. Those problems will still just escalate. Everything we've ever seen in movies has entered our backyard and it's a big door. The abuse of children on the Internet is one of the great evils. These are children who suffer great suffering here. They can't handle it, they're exploited. So, you need to think about it. We've also brought about an amendment to the cybernetic law on sanctioning cybercrime, but obviously that's not enough. Obviously, there is not enough education for those who should recognize and respond adequately. And that's where you need to react and spot. If there's any speed in protecting any rights needed, then it's more in children's rights than anywhere else. Children have the right to education, education and from early kindergarten in terms of learning tolerance and democracy. We have received this promise from the current minister in the past years, that this will begin in the fall. For the last two years, there's been no more promises. Children also have the right to sexual education, to protect their own health, for responsibility to themselves and others. That's what they're being denied. With stupid explanations. Some rights, child rights that are being violated, the right to contact with relatives has simply been transferred to courts. However, as far as courts can even absorb solutions to these rights. Many do not even seek such protection knowing that it is slow. The courteous democracies with long-standing democratic practices there are only exceptions. Some even really controversial things. But with us, all of these social relations, that is, individual relationships, are turning into social relations that are impossible to resolve. So here, before I finish, I want to pay particular attention to sexual violence against children. It also does not have adequate protection over the court, but neither does it receive adequate prevention. The government should, of course, also have political will, take this warning seriously, but not only from this report, but we have seen from the previous report, including those that will now be followed by the attorney general and the prosecutor's report on gender equality. But it's not something you put up with every year, a little criticism, good suggestions, and then you rest... until next year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are very specific suggestions. There are even solutions to how they can be solved, but what this government does with its mechanisms. The D.A. and the D.A.'s office did almost as much as they could. Therefore, if we really care about the institution, not about the institution, but about the purpose of which the institution of the Ombudsman for children is informed, then the government will indeed do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33136	Thank you. Replications. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33137	Thank you. This is about violence. It's no secret that man is a violent being, it's no secret that the whole new age history can actually be defined and as a history of progress in the development of the most diverse methods and application of the methods of violence. Unfortunately, children are often the target of such violence and we must admit to ourselves that there is a culture of violence in Croatia, that it reigns with us and that physical punishment of children is part of it. Our people's wisdom, such as "batin has come out of heaven", "who loves, who fights" etc., creates a cultural framework within which it is to break out the impotent work of an act of manifestation of love and to take care of the home Rambo or the bully or the maniacs about toddler eating their children's psychic health. A colleague mentioned sexual violence. First of all, I responded to this replica because I think it's one of the worst if not the worst kind of violence that should be equated with the most severe of blood acts. Personally, I wouldn't mind a suspended sentence being a life sentence, which otherwise doesn't exist in our code, I think we should introduce it. That such a person must be subject to extreme punishment, in such a way as to punish no one to commit such a kind of violence. We're really full of stories about terrorism, about the threat of global terrorism. I ask the rhetorical question to all of us. What about home terrorism? What about home terrorists and the victims of this terrorism? Maybe they're more numerous than the victims of this global terrorism, and I'm certainly counting both the children and that gray zone we don't want to talk about, we won't and we seem to be talking, and we hide it a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33138	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33139	Here's when you mention your colleague's life sentence. To note, in 2003, in a novel, the famous 2003 novel, we introduced a life sentence, predicting it precisely for children's murderers, pregnant women, cop killers, lawyers, state attorneys and judges and all those involved in the process of detecting and processing. Unfortunately, however, the novel was abolished. Over the years, it has been amended in ways of criminal law, but never have these important provisions found a place in the Penal Code again. When you talk about the culture of violence yes, in Croatia there is a culture of violence, and economic violence and physical violence, and psychological violence. And when it's lied and refined by the highest state bodies, it's psychological violence. Economic violence is not particularly to be talked about because almost all amendments to the law go in a way that protects the very powerful and that the worker cannot protect his own salary. We are witnessing right now that the government is refusing our proposal to amend the Penal Code, that non-payment of wages be a criminal offence. So what are we talking about? How does this worker, how does that worker who can't get, or has any protection get his salary? What can a child do? The government responds that the law has often changed and that, in order to create legal uncertainty, legal uncertainty does not protect the very weakest. So whose insecurity? Then whose safety is he protecting? I was talking about culture, that is, about unculture and this violence and I was talking about it myself because it is necessary and I repeat that children learn all conflicts in society in a peaceful manner, tolerance and conversation, the strength of arguments, not the power of high decibels or the "argumentum ad baculum" which is still in play in this or that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33140	Second replica, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33141	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Ingrid mentioned child manipulation. I think that, and this is exactly what it says is that the problem of manipulating children and violating their rights during parental conflicts is one of the important issues that you are talking about here. I think this question of child manipulation is certainly one of the most evil actions in me that adults can do, but if it's done with their own children, if these children are subject to personal benefit, then I ask myself a question and what kind of parents they are. It used to be out of the public knowledge, the kids were sent to beg, to do some hard work. Today, however, this is done in a media way. We are witnesses and we unfortunately see that many of the people seen in politics and in show business, the economy, sports have one goal to create through children and a certain profit or some kind of prosperity. This raises the question of what kind of physical and particularly psychological development these children have. I think there's a lot of trouble in that part. Also, one issue is a violation of rights during parental conflicts. Why is this a question today and big and hard, I mean because people who have multiple marriages exist and are determined by my, your, our children. Then the question arises who in these relationships has more rights, who is more or less treated badly or what in these conflicts, how children go but also how parents go. I think that the help of society is even more necessary here and that in many cases both children and parents suffer because of such relationships and are not often able to solve them alone, so I think that in that part, too, you should make more accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33142	Mr. Representative Drago Lesar Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33143	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ingrid, you said this report to you was actually an extraordinary scientific paper. I see him as an excellent guide and a government but we also in the Parliament to better locate together what we failed to do to make things better. In this report, there is a chapter in preschool education where the Ombudsman notes that in Croatia only 43% of preschool children are preschool children. In 2000 it was about 37%, eight years 6% increase. The European standard is 75%. There are plans in the ministry that 2010, according to the prosecutor, that coverage should be 60%. However, she also recommended to the education ministry that urgent things must be changed in order for this 60% plan to be met. Why is this a guide for us? When the Ministry or Government does not want to change the rules of the Preschool Law and the Law on the financing of local self-government, we have to do this because one of the reasons why there is not enough space in kindergartens is that the obligation to build kindergartens and finance the stay of children in kindergartens is on the burden of municipalities and cities. And if we are not at peace with the fact that only 43% of children can go to kindergarten today, and this is a serious problem then we must change things in a way that we change the system of funding local self-government and that the Ministry of Finally Education realizes that it is not only a problem of science, higher and secondary education in Croatia, but that their responsibility is also in preschool education and that it helps municipalities and cities to build capacities in kindergartens because otherwise, in five years we will realize that we are on half of the European average.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33144	Reply to the replica of Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33145	This aspect that you have pointed out is really and particularly distracting by the Ombudsman's attention to children in a shamefully small number, the percentage includes children in kindergartens in our local self-government. And indeed somewhere it works great, somewhere there's a responsible local government that doesn't build monuments for itself but builds exactly what citizens need and what our youngest citizens need. It's a kindergarten. Is it a shame that in the 21st century and even in major cities, almost half of the children remain unencumbered by preschool education as if this was a situation in the transition from the 21st to the 20th century and still. And that's simply what these local powers are allowed to discuss. And there should really see one obligation by the ministry, by the authorities to commit units of local self-government that they cannot spend on monuments and something that is really unnecessary until these key problems are solved, school problems and in their own kindergarten problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33146	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I must confess that I am very pleased with the report written by the prosecutor to the extent that I am unhappy and unhappy with the facts mentioned in that report. The report fully covers all aspects of child protection but unfortunately, this time, Mr. Vice President, please do not interrupt me, the Croatian Parliament has made little appointments. I saw two parent committees on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and one interested one, namely the Committee on Gender Equality. All other working bodies of the Assembly, whose responsibilities mention many areas concerning children and the judiciary and health care, transport, children in transport, media, have not been held as interested working bodies to discuss this report, so that the Croatian Parliament may be given the impression that it is a little uninterested in this topic. And I'm ready for my colleagues and colleagues to repeat it one more time. Of course, local elections may have contributed to our being a little careless in that sense, but let the criticism remain, perhaps next time something is better done. As far as children are concerned, of course I will only warn about one thing, so children wherever they live, wherever they are born, must have equal rights, have equal conditions for their growing up and also for schooling. In this report, the Ombudsman warned about the problem of schooling and education of children living on islands, the problems characteristic of these schools are unprofessional teaching because teachers teach in several teaching classes, teachers teach class classes. When it is mostly younger and often changes, the functioning of schools makes it difficult for traffic isolation, the equipment for remote teaching is not used, children with developmental difficulties do not have adequate professional assistance and the like. Thus, in any case, the Ministry of Education and Sports is expected to help train children in inaccessible areas and in islands to pay greater attention to them. The other part I'd like to say, that's what the media is about. So children and young people have their own role models, usually, come to them through the media, and in any case, it is particularly important how the media approach the problem. For example, the Ombudsman cites advertising of alcoholic beverages, especially beer with sport as one way to give children an indication that it is alcohol consumption, and beer is even though it is treated as a food product of alcohol, an alcoholic drink that is desirable, that their role models do so. And so the problem with drinking alcohol in young people happens, and the impression is, in this way, that we are still encouraging it. Lately, therefore, in the last 6 months since the initial so, from the initial orientation of the media that it is necessary to protect children from violence, at the end of the year he was trafficked into the message by insufficiently strict sanctions and overly mild legislation when it comes to punishing minor perpetrators of violence. Media pressure based on the wrong thesis of dangerous children that no one can contribute to the demonization of children but is completely clouding the general problem of violence in society. Aggressive adult behavior. In various areas of life, in families, according to neighbors, in the public, stadiums in media that are tolerated and sometimes even rewarded as effective behavior that leads to the desired goal is certainly also reflected in the behaviour of children. And the public does not hear the voice of experts in the field of justice, sociology, psychology, social pedagogy that would lead the debate towards rational arguments and warn that the problem of violence in society cannot be resolved by tightening sanctions against children. Or in one sentence is not a problem in children, the problem is with adults. What else shows a bad attitude toward children in the media? Therefore, online comments remain on blogs and forums where children are therefore mentioned by name and last name, where they remain available on search engines even after they are deleted and children follow it. And as much as that, in their circle of acquaintances, the Internet is being monitored and commented. So, there's no virtual world in it anymore, it's the real world kids are experiencing, the Internet has become available to almost everyone today, children are using it. Therefore, it is high time to do something on that plan. We are also witnessing, of course, the media link I will call the children, therefore, because the fight for greater coverage, readability, ratings, therefore, and pushing the media towards sensationalism also affects their monitoring of situations where children are most often, as is said by the collateral victim, and of course the audience who seeks it and wants the greatest excuse that the editors require journalists to report in detail the cases of violence against children and among children, family tragedies and children. Children's photographs are used as an illustration of the text about their parents, full names and names of children without parental consent are published, they are recorded in tears, sick or unhappy children, photos of children who have committed and tried suicides are published, statements by neighbors and speculation of the causes of tragedy, their assessment of the characteristics of victims of children or children who are perpetrators of violence. There are numerous examples of such unprofessional procedures, journalistic and editorial failures. Unfortunately, counselors, those who violate the privacy of children, you did not say who it was, I'd like you to do it next time. It's the only and minor objection to this report. You only listed two shows, but that doesn't apply to what you wrote there. And of course, crossing the good taste line is often justified by the assumed interest of the public and the most beautiful "if we don't publish we will announce our competition". Also in recent years, individual children’s conflicts at school have been reported in detail and unfortunately most often with the consent of parents who are victims of violence. This brings multiple damages, secondary victim victim victim victim's identity revealed by parenting, media contribute to public defamation, Stigmatizing the child, but what's even worse, so the children are sent a message that they can gain media fame in this way. And indeed, in every case of each other's fighting of minors or students on portals, there is a link to You Tube where you can look at what it looked like. Which is really totally unacceptable. So I'd like to look back on just one more thing. It is the responsibility of the owner of the Internet site to responsibility for the content of the comments presented through their forums. We really need to understand, today the Internet has become an integral part of the life of every child, of course, which is at an age where it can be minimally used on the Internet. Internet portals are not just news, especially for children, the one on the portal. And those are the comments that are left below. At this point there is no responsibility of the publisher, no responsibility of the portal owner for these comments, and children are available. I believe that it is high time that the responsibility of the publisher and the law is prescribed and that they are responsible for what is written on the comments, so that they should be deleted or excluded from the comments or make anonymous comments impossible. Also, in advertising we are witnessing a common case of inadequate content of advertising for a particular product, especially as regards children. On page 155 of this report, it reads: "We consider that assessing the adequateness or ethics of the content that children are exposed primarily to the tasks of advertisers or traders who offer a particular product." I find that completely incorrect and wrong. It's like putting foxes in a henhouse, because what those who only advertised how to sell their product and not choose their funds, and it's the state that has to protect them, primarily children from such ads. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, along with that initial thesis on the mild lack of interest of institutions, especially one part of the board of the Croatian Parliament, I would like, of course, to repeat that sentence "children are our greatest treasure", but as we witnessed in Croatia the waste, defamation and destruction of the treasure, we do not allow it to be done with our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33148	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm a colleague of Bauk's. Just in my replica, I'd like to take a brief look around, or complement that part of you, you mentioned the problem of drinking alcohol in young people in that good part of beer consumption, which is true in us as a food item. However, all research shows that children, in most men’s children, enter the world of alcohol through beer, so they start to consume beer. And this time I would like to remind the Croatian Parliament, i.e. representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, that regarding the consumption of alcohol in children, we are not only silent as a society, we are in fact indirect and encouraging the consumption of alcoholic beverages and as a society we have completely ignored this problem as a public health problem. Recently, we have made this nice and legal, the consumption of alcoholic beverages, in this case beer, and no less than the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, so I remind you that the government has come from the first to the second reading to the second reading with the bill, where it has complemented the law with the provision that in sports competitions it allows to pour alcoholic beverages somewhere up to 6%, if I am not mistaken, the amount of alcohol. So that primarily refers to beer. So here's so much about fighting and the current government, fighting alcohol consumption and children.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33150	Replication response, Mr. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33151	I fully agree with you, fellow Members, and I would like to warn you that this is not the only case where, in fact, the declarative and advocate for children and other institutions speak one thing, and then the laws that do something quite the opposite are proposed. In fact, sometimes it seems that the attorney general, as it's popularly said, is chasing the windmills, that the children are still our greatest treasure, but that the capital is the one who is still above that treasure and if the treasure threatens someone's money, the money will still take precedence. Unfortunately, but that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33152	Thank you. At 12.37, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. One notice. The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, scheduled a committee session today at 13:30 in Josip Jelačić's hall. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney with your co-workers. My colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report that is truly quality, exhaustive and well-assembled. Unfortunately, as counterpart Anticevic noted, it is becoming more and more extensive each year, more and more thicker and thicker, which is of course not good. Children's rights violations are very high and it seems that if we take into account one general atmosphere and the situation in society, if we take into account the inertness of some institutions of the state, if we consider how much we work in prevention, then we can in fact conclude that this office will unfortunately have more and more work to do. A man doesn't really know where he'd go from, with children, with developmental difficulties, children with behavioral disorders. I'm actually going to look back at something that marked 2008, that's violence. We're in 2009. It seems to me that actually since '97. the years on here through numerous round tables, through numerous stands, numerous conferences held on the subject, we always ask ourselves the same thing, whether there is violence today more than ever, objectively or actually has it the same as before, the same as before, but we talk more about it or maybe the media artificially create a perception that violence has more. However, some new trends arise today, trends in the carrying of cold weapons among young people. The knife has become a mandatory piece of equipment for the evening date of the Zadar minors. Threatening death to a teacher, hooligans breaking through school and drawing Ustasha signs, seven put a fellow knife under his neck, a student stole and lit a diary etc., etc. It's something we can see every day in the paper. So there is violence among young people. There is, it's a big problem today, we've been hearing about it for years, and I'm not personally interested in numbers. I have to admit, I don't care if there were 1,500 applications in a particular segment or if there were 1600. It's worrying and absolutely not to be tolerated. But I can't help but think that somehow as a society, we've become almost silent observers and that we're our own, maybe it's too heavy a word, not to worry, but with insufficient engagement in some way young people and we've failed and ignored it. There would be no discussion at all about why it is today, to the extent that some traditional values, parenting, schools, etc. have been violated, but the fact that we have damage and that the damage is great and the question is what to do now. So what to do now to reduce some abnormalities in child behavior to the least possible or completely eliminated as a phenomenon. I think the big problem today is prevention. Prevention, a word that is so fond of and so often used, which in practice is actually difficult or in no way applied. Here's an example of school prevention programs. We all call for school preventive programs and we all think that schools through their school prevention programs do a lot of things. The ministry says school preventive programmes reflect the specificities of school and the interests of students and teachers. But in practice, it all comes down to the fact that the interests of the students are largely absent, that teachers are under-motivated, that they are too burdened with other teaching activities, and that we are not talking about that they are not in any material sense stimulated to implement school preventive programmes. And today we have a situation that at least 90% of schools don't implement school preventive programs. And not to mention that I'm actually asking a question, which of the teachers today can answer the need for preventive programs to prevent suicides? Are teachers trained to do that? No, they're not. What do competent bodies do in this regard? They're not doing anything. Except, for example, I can, or not, mention one good example of the Zagreb Health and Social Care Department, which was financed by the ministry, but I think the ministry should encourage such programmes in other areas. It's a teacher education program in early recognition of depressing symptoms and prevention of suicidal behaviour. Well, you see, the deadline, and I believe that Mrs. Attorney General, you know very well, the deadline for making, adopting and implementing a suicide prevention programme was 2006. At the end of 2008, a working group was established at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and the deadline was 2006. However, as a state or state institution, they are not concerned enough about this problem and could do more. But here's to not just talking about black things and what the state needs to do, and not doing, how the state institutions work, or not working, I'm going to tell you a good example, a good example from Rijeka. Yes, it is true that our struggle to establish an institution was long lasting. The truth is, we were alone in it, but in the end, we did it. Maybe not exactly what we wanted, but I think we're a good example that should be applied in other environments. We recognized a particular problem in our own midst 10 years ago. He was related to the problem of violence and child protection against neglect and abuse. As a unit of local self-government, we wanted to organize a multidisciplinary team of experts who would be working on this issue and working and we wanted to establish an institution. In this effort, we encountered, as I said, countless problems, facing the incredible inertness of the ministry, and without any financial assistance from the ministry, we established a counseling facility in 2000, where a psychologist was first employed. The continued increase of users has encouraged us to expand our activity. We hired new 7 people, we adapted a new space for which we spent a million and 700 thousand kuna, we hired psychologists and psychiatrists, we hired nurses, we hired a social worker, and eventually we created an institution that can meet the challenges of today's situations and this time. So we wanted to establish a child protection center against abuse and neglect. We failed because the law did not allow the City of Rijeka to be the founder of such a facility. Today we have a living room home. I believe you know that fact. There are top experts working in that home today, and they have a lot of work to do. Not only with children from Rijeka, not only with children from the Primorje-Gorski County, but from all neighbouring counties. I think it's a good model that other local self-government units should apply in their environments. I think the ministry should support local self-government units in forming such institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33154	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33155	Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with Associates, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, as I have done on several committees in preparation for this plenary session, I will support the Attorney General's Report for the children and in the sense of everything she is personally, but also with her associates did and conducted during last year and what stands in this report, but I will not say that I am satisfied with what I can read in that report because inside is unfortunately still too much, too many areas suggest non-compliance with children's rights, regardless of all the efforts that come from the Advocate's Office. But what seems to me to be the most problematic of all that the state institutions, or government of ours, the competent ministries absolutely don't have enough hearing for what they do at the Attorney's Office, or for all that they point to, are making certain recommendations, warnings and so forth. In one part I want to look at exactly what it might have said would have been said to everyone, perhaps most easily seen and represents the most serious violation of children's rights, which is the problem of violence. And at the beginning, I will read something that has not been read in the report of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, which is that at the last session two days ago, the president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports proposed and put the conclusion on the committee of origin that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with delivering within 60 days a programme of measures to improve the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia, particularly taking into account the problems present in implementing the rules, and the proposals set out in the 2008 report by the Advocate for Children. That conclusion was not accepted because three votes were in favour and six votes against. Of course, members and members of the ruling coalition committee headed by HDZ are known. This can only tell me that the ruling ones absolutely do not recognize one of the biggest problems that we face in protecting or raising and educating, however you want our children, which is the problem of violence. I will remind you that the SDP club has just been encouraged by everything that happened during the last year, and this has continued in this year, in the area of violence among children against children, it has referred to the parliamentary procedure a material called "The rise of violence among young people in the Republic of Croatia". Take the purified agenda, you'll see that this point of course falls, what's said in the regular number, where we should discuss it. Now you can see that the 45th item is the agenda. And of course, in the meantime, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has come that it is immeasurably simple to talk about it, because the government claims it is doing everything and it turns out that they are not exactly the evaluations of what we were talking about in this material, but also what the Ombudsman is talking about in her report. From all available data at any level, to take from any institution, there is a rise in violence of both those whose victims are children and young and those in whom they themselves are perpetrators. And experts have been warning and making recommendations to address this problem for a long time. According to data from the interior ministry in 2008 there were increases in the number of children of perpetrators by 6.83% compared to 2007. At the SDP club, I personally think it's a data that should be worrying us. In 2008, minors committed a total of 730 crimes against life and the body. 2 crimes of murder, 2 crimes of murder in an attempt, 126 crimes of robbery, 113 crimes of inflicting serious injuries. When data are discussed when data are taken into account from the Ombudsman’s Office for Children, she received 89 individual applications for protection against violence in educational institutions, covering 429 children in 2008. And that number increased by 67% compared to 2007. I think I'm talking good information. Compared to 2004, the number of individual applications of the Advocate's Office increased by more than 68% and all the experience we have, those who deal with child and child violence problems, experience suggests that children who experience violence and often use violence themselves as a form of behavior. Thus, the Office of the Ombudsman for Children received 297 applications last year that related to violation of children's rights to protection against violence. As forms of child abuse, domestic violence, violence in educational institutions, violence in institutions and other violence are taken. The number of individual reports of violence against children is increased by more than 55% compared to 2005. The government is, in its opinion, that is, when it gave a negative opinion that we are discussing this, so the issue of which the Ombudsman's report on children is very much speaking, is called for the implementation of the national... activities for the rights and interests of children for the period 2006-2012 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In doing so completely neglecting the fact and believing that this is absolutely no problem, that the two national strategies that are extremely important to us, I would say crucial in this area, and this is the National Strategy for Prevention of Disabilities in the behavior of children and young people, as well as the National Strategy for the Protection of Children against Abuse and Neglectation, both should be adopted in 2006. We are now half of 2009 in these few years and some of the most difficult forms of violent behavior have occurred both to children and to children. What is particularly concerned is that when it comes to this, then, of course, we are always getting away with some working groups, commissions and the like, and so on, so the government is talking about the establishment of commissions or working groups that are going to approach the creation of something that should have been made three years ago. And I'm finally gonna end up with what I find particularly worrying. And I call on my colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition to think about it. Or to bear in mind that the Office of Advocates is also, therefore, the Ombudsman for children with his associates, the authority of the Croatian Parliament. And that when certain proposals are coming that are related to changes, improvements, additions or whatever you want, certain legislative proposals, so that all together should look at them with much more attention and try to have a common influence on the government to accept these suggestions. Because I repeat, the Attorney General's office as well as the other defense attorneys are our attorneys. And if the government itself has no hearing, then I guess this Croatian Parliament you sitting here should keep in mind that if anything else we should carefully read their proposals and try to install them into our laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33156	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33157	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, Associates, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As far as this report is concerned, which you have submitted to this High House and in which you have shown the work of your office, the data, the degree of respect, or the threat of children's rights in such recorded cases, were 2 thousand 75 new cases in 2008. 2 thousand 75 new cases, new fates that bind more family members, members of the wider community, so that number as a number is one, and what range of cases we're discussing when we start at 2 thousand 75 we don't know, we assume in multiplier systems how much is available further and went further. So every year there's an increase in cases as your report shows you're getting bigger. In certain areas we understand, of course, the areas and there have already been a lot of talk about it, violence against children, among children what I have to say and especially worry about how the lawyer's office works in the direction of the ministries. Those ministries that are required to act and take concrete measures. For example, for me it is a fundamental issue of education, not just prevention. Prevention is something that can be, prevention is what we need in any case because it is already a situation where violence occurs, or cases that testify to violence, has already taken too many places in our society, but education. So I will again point out that daily media inscriptions are very much up-to-date on the issue of education for non-violent behaviour and on non-violent resolution of conflicts for democracy, which implies and education for human rights. Without such an entire of a very small age of education and access, we will come far. In this way we will reach out to the education system of potential abusers who will learn something, potential victims, and especially those of potential silent observers and observers who make up the majority that I suppose would have the strength of tomorrow’s young people, or the day after tomorrow, to show their civil courage and react in such cases. Here, Madam Attorney-General, I am thus experiencing a long-term full education in the sense of preventing violence because during the years, children, parents, guardians, institutions, etc. are involved in this process. Of course, they're the worrying excesses that come from right here in this time of the end of the school year. All of us who have met with the process of education know that there is a question here somewhere issued by the spirit and bodies and children who are under pressure and parents and expectations and promises, and the possibility of further education ultimately in terms of success or failure in completing a certain degree of education. So, in part, I have to say in this sense of violence, I'm not going to talk about violence against children, it's another topic but child violence in institutions is asking one question that is acceptable and I would ask you here to work on it with your authority. It's a security issue in schools. Are we going to avoid education in schools, avoiding childcare because we kicked it out of our relationship to the law to create the assumptions of a police state where security guards will protect children from children, and then keep them in trams, buses again from other children, and we will get one chain in which there is no longer really a basis for the rule of law anymore, but a police state. It's not in anyone's interest, it's not in anybody's mind to create, and the beginning is always the small one. First one to throw the stone that first goes. That's how it might be in these situations. Then I would also say that it can't just be that every report repeats the parts that you detect with the rights that we appreciate as the responsibility of the government and then the state institutions don't do enough. For example, from the violation of the right to live with parents, the right to privacy, the introduction of a united item in the budget on funds for children. So these are all the elements that we find in your reports, we support and it seems to me that you, with your report and your initiatives, really have the support of this largest part of the Parliament and that exactly the government and the state institutions have no ear for what you're saying. That's not good. But let's go back to how you yourself told the subject of your report to the children. Today it is evident from what you write and detect that a series of problems result from the known disregard for existing documents on children's rights. Children, according to international documents, are also particularly protected from manipulation in war conflicts, weapon manipulation, etc. Well, here's the other day we were witnessing on a TV channel of a little boy jumping around in a polygon and yelling, uh, how beautiful tanks, how beautiful rifles. I think it's something that television can't show kids in weapons grand. The manipulation of children for political purposes has already been discussed, but I fear that the voices of those who talk about it are becoming more silent and that we will have to comply with other laws that regulate resources and set things a little more concrete. I'd like to mention at this point and something about this series of childcare, perhaps today, for those who have passed 18 years. In 92, I was still in the school system by the decision of one minister of one ministry of education, so all the expert associates in schools from psychologists, educators. At a time when changes in Croatia were so great in Zagreb, thousands of children from other parts came from other parts, schools were no longer a class of 30 but 45 children. So, one generation was left without support, without support, and that's not good. Gradual return, therefore, of the school’s professional services followed quite late, quite arduously, for this there is not enough hearing. What I would also say and what I would expect from your report is that the government is really serious about what you are, and it's already listed enough, so I'm not going to repeat it. The government cannot be deafened, the government in the end, and the state, not only is it good for man, it must really be a condition of every good, and every good condition is generation that grows up. I would like to draw attention to something else, and this is a question of the prosecutor's report, which, the occupier of the entire range of objections to cases in the field of special public concern. So there is a violation of the rights of citizens and citizens and certainly that there are children in these families. And one violation in one community, one right reflects itself entirely on the other. This may not be enough to read, or it may be the work of regional offices that you will intensify, and I would like you to intensify it because somewhere they remain as children on islands, remain children in rural areas and remain children in areas of special state care that we do not care enough about. And finally, and not lastly, the question of the children of the Roma population, the last events that in some environments show that the situation is worrying, here I would ask you and support that by the power of your authority you really question to what extent of the association, and perhaps sometimes by an alibi state institutions have the means to work with the Roma population to really use it in a preventive, educational sense and to inform us about it. I thank you, I will support your report and I will do it in that range in which I have contact with some international same institutions to make it known. We also know that this year of the Council of Europe is against punishing, physically punishing children, you will probably report it a year, it should be said that this is an important thing that we are involved in and in which your office also makes a great effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33158	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, fellow MPs. First of all, I'd like to take this opportunity to tell Agent Bauku, I can see that he's not here, who said that part of the board obviously had no hearing about this report. I must say that our Committee on Labour and Social Partnership was interested in the committee and discussed it, so that this fact could not generally stand. But as for the protection of children's interests, I think it's more or less embedded in Croatian regulations, laws. But the question is how is all this done in practice. And unfortunately, then, we have a situation like this which is presented by the Ombudsman, where in her report she clearly shows the extent of child manipulation and how much exploitation of these children is in one of the most brutal ways still present with us. I will certainly look more closely at that part of the report that speaks of the economic exploitation of children who unfortunately have to do certain harmful, harmful jobs. The lawyer also pointed out in her report on one piece of information, I would say insensitive to the human dimension of the responsible persons who, without her intervention, obviously did not understand that in this example which led to the single parent being released from the night, shift job that has a 10-year-old child. Normally, the worst part is that this particular person comes from part of the government service. So this should certainly be appealed to, surely, that there are more cases of private entrepreneurs, etc., but at least those of the state institutions I think people in such responsible places should certainly have a little more of that humanity and hearing about that part. Surely, this one where we say how many kids are exploited in the nighttime, TV shows, in the work of children who sell souvenirs that we can see every summer when we walk along our coast, that it's somewhere up to tiny nights, that little kids sitting there, squatting, I don't know what they're offering clams or I don't know what they're not selling. And if something had to be done in any way, it would prevent those unconscious parents who encourage those children because they were somehow sent to the street to sell it there. It's interesting that the state inspectorate has done 62 surveillance over the past year, which I don't think is enough to be honest with you right now, because it is seen that in this only 62 surveillance has revealed 170 violations of various regulations normally, it would have been on average that according to one surveillance, the state inspector discovered three violations of various regulations. Which is kind of embarrassing since it's about children, the problem of children, and that's why it's embarrassing, and I think that in any case these state inspectors should be much more aggressive and far more controlled. This information was also expected to be more accurate in the catering activities of waiters, auxiliary chefs are in some way isolated jobs where there are the most illegalities to which the lawyer pointed out in relation to minors. And then normally if this is indicated, then inspectors know, they were told where to do a little bit more tightening, be far more aggressive, as the sellers, traders, construction and auxiliary construction workers say, where children work on the charge of parking, so cleaning ships, in saws even making drinks, and then we are surprised that Croatia is so highly ranked when a report on alcohol consumption and the rest of our youth is given. In the following cases, the State Inspectorate has found that it is also a matter of entering into a work contract for a certain period of time, normally harmful, without the approval of legislators for longer than full-time work, not to inform the inspector of work on the early work of a child, night work, and work on jobs that may endanger the health of those children. And then they quote, I'm just going to set up some of the examples that you've set here. She says, a 17-year-old who works as a waitress at a nightclub, that must be a bad example, and she certainly hasn't worked for a day. And now the question is, where is that inspection that she hasn't intervened? She must have worked for a long time out there in a bar like that. Or he says, the illegal employment of a child under the age of 15, so a 9-year-old who worked as a souvenir salesman in his mother's craft, that's what we said about what the kids send that I don't know. Then, a 14-year-old who cleaned and maintained the tools at the temporary water treatment site, etc. They are against such employers, criminal charges have been filed. These are also these examples that are mentioned here, these signs are revealed. Surely there are many more who have not been discovered. But I wonder if it's enough punishment just to file a criminal complaint against such employers. In my opinion, they should be subject to more severe sanctions. I don't know how much that's even possible for a criminal, etc. Because I think they're soulless people who take advantage of those kids for their own interests. In the field of protection at work, labour inspectors have discovered irregularities related to under-age workers and under-age students in teaching, and in several cases these students were injured, but they were injured because they had not previously been trained by that employer, trained to work with these means of work, and normally that these children, these young people, were normally injured. It should also normally take more care of those employers who are unable to train their workers to work on certain dangerous means. Speaking of protecting children from economic exploitation, I will put particular emphasis on it, it certainly is not possible to ignore the problem of the children of beggars who are not only exposed to the deaths, the conditions of their health, but many of them are also forced to ask for their family members, which is, normally, the saddest and the saddest. Unfortunately, in Croatia, this situation has not yet been done enough to improve itself and in some ways to protect these weak beings from these monsters who simply force children to do so. In my opinion, I would open up the Goli Island again for the kind of monsters that would work for me there, and what they earn would go for the care of such children, not for fact children to drive the malts to die. And I think that, in any case, a far greater role would have to be played by the police who ignores that phenomenon, ignores the ever-expanded phenomenon. I don't think the police should ignore those kids that every one of us who drives a car has opportunities and many times a day on the street to see who's banging on his windows, doors opening and looking for something. This should not be allowed, and for this reason I appeal to your attorneys that, for the next year, and normally in better cooperation, I would even say with the competent ministry and other state bodies, regulations, protocols that would be the most difficult to condemn those child molesters who take advantage of such children. And regulations should define really the kind of punishments that would raise people like that so they don't bring children into the street and leave. And here, please, I appeal, be persistent. No one in any ministry can say, and especially with the authority that this will be resolved by the General Protocol, etc. I think it is one phenomenon that is increasingly widespread in Croatia, and I think it should be stopped at the benefit of children. That's the only goal. Since I see that time has come to me, I could still talk a lot here, especially about those who allow children under the age of 18 to consume alcohol, cigarettes, etc. And normally I think that inspection must do its job as well as far better, but with that I say you have my full support that you are far more committed to these children, these children who are convicted of having to save their naked lives on the street, because they have to beg and work for someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33160	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague Kunst, a short replica in which I would just like to further strengthen and the part that you were talking about, we were together this morning at the board meeting that you chaired, so about the child problems of beggars. Of course, I support you in this part where you point further to this problem and also in that appeal that went to the prosecutor, but I would supplement that, so I would appeal to the representative of the family ministry who is present, Mr. Secretary of State Adanic. Because according to this report that we received from the Attorney General's Office, the D.A.'s Office has clearly recognised the seriousness of this problem, so I quote what it says in the report: "...and the needs of its co-ordinated resolution and has already taken action with the aim of gathering experts from competent ministries." I quote: "However, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has informed us that there is no basis for adopting nor justification," it is meant to adopt one protocol on conduct, "for particularly regulating the co-ordinated conduct of the competent authorities in relation to this category of children only, as this will be resolved by a general protocol that will regulate actions in the event of gross neglect of the duty of child care or care." However, the document whose adoption was planned for 2007 has not yet been adopted. So, by supporting both your debate and what you have presented, I appeal here to the president of the ministry, but also to all other competent ministries to accept the suggestions of the Attorney's Office and finally to all sit together and to bring appropriate measures to address this problem, which is therefore the children beggars we all witness and daily encounter on the streets of our cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33162	Replication response. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33163	Well, fellow MPs, I fully support what you said because I think when it comes to children that there are no party differences, there's no difference as to who's in power, who's in opposition, that there are absolutely interests, at least every normal person, exactly the same. It's exactly the same in terms of how to help, how to protect those children, and that's why I've just appealed, logically, that state institutions have to do their part of the job, but let the resistant be still a lawyer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33164	Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, distinguished ladies from the attorney general's office for the children, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, I will begin my presentation today in an individual debate by saying that it seems to me that the D.A.'s office has real support, that it also has real support from all MPs in the Assembly, no matter what option they belong to both the government and the competent working authorities. I think it's a claim we can all agree on. As one of the arguments that I will give in favour of this claim is something that I found in this evaluation of the institution of the Ombudsman for children, which is that Croatia is one of the few European countries that has been singled out, so not as part of the Ombudsman so that there is some department or portfolio behind it dealing with child rights issues, but there is an independent office for children who already works very well, and according to this report it seems to be extremely independent, his choice is transparent and this report is quite content, we all agreed that it is very good. Similarly, yesterday, on the parent board, we received evidence of this claim from the Ombudsman for children that the percentage of the measures taken by the institutions, which was proposed by the Ombudsman's office amongst the best or at least on a high average by other European countries. Among the best or on the European average. It's something that I find extremely important to mention today because the debate didn't lead in that direction, which is the answer I received from the attorney general yesterday on the parent board. Next, we say that the Nordic countries are our role model, and also in this evaluation of the institution of the Ombudsman for children, the former Norwegian Ombudsman commends Croatia and says that when asked for the best, he says look at Croatia. That's a second compliment. So, from an independent point of view, we're gonna say good, not to say that we're almost the best, and not only the office, because the office would be unsuccessful if his appeals weren't heard, that he wasn't working with other institutions, that he wasn't getting support, so if you wanted to take these 25, 30% measures concretely, and we were today too self-critical. At times, in these discussions, it seemed to me that we had abused children for almost daily political purposes. Here, I've just made two arguments that I'm opposed to exhibiting some of my colleagues and I'm going to say again, that I don't think it's right to abuse children and exploit them for daily political purposes, no matter what the subject is, because that way we're just violating their rights and putting on the protection of children's rights negative connotation. I think by doing things to niggers than they really are, we're just doing harm to both the kids and the attorney's office and all the authorities, but also to ourselves in the end because we're also the ones who care about children's rights, at least indirectly. Speaking only in a negative context,... A deliberate chaos is created and is misused if you want this report in the context of the debate on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report is as I have said very substantively, I believe it is extremely systematic and broadly so far. But I wouldn't agree with the previous statements that it's actually only about increasing the number of violations of children's rights. I'm going to pull a parallel with, like, family violence. There may have been more domestic violence before, but today the public is more sensitive about it. And that is exactly the argument that I found again in one of the reports contained in this evaluation by the Ombudsman institution for children that it is about increased public sensitisation on the protection of children's rights regardless of the category of rights here. And good thing it is because if it were different, we'd really be in trouble. And I repeat, I don't think we treat children's rights conveniently. I want to believe that we all want to affirm children's rights, and from many debates, however, it is hard to understand that we all want to affirm children's rights and fight together for as much adequate care as possible. Of course, we all have the right to our own opinion as well as in this report, but we should not abuse it. And abuse seems to have happened to me, at least that's my opinion in the parent committee's debate report. Unfortunately, it's not the first time, but I have the right here to say my personal position. I note that I do not wish to contaminate the debate or this report with the position of most members of this parent committee, that in this report, some of the things that were less important to us, in some minority, are more important, and that the avoided put some very important things in the debates that are even mentioned today in the debates of opposition MPs, but quite anyway. If the board president were here, I hadn't seen her all morning, maybe it's my failure, but I believe she's not in the Parliament today, and I would've told her, and I'd have asked for that report to change. I came forward today on behalf of the vice president of that committee and consulted with most of the members of that home working body and they all agreed with me. I'm afraid the debate on this report could be taken very badly, very badly. Such an atmosphere ruled in this House. I'm afraid the media could take this report very badly. And who's gonna be the one to blame? Kids? I don't think so. The D.A.'s office? The competent institutions? We're all responsible, and it's our fault. And we are to blame for such intonation of this debate. Just as I believe in this sense that none of the present knows about the Split Igor who won a fantastic medal at the IT Olympics, so at the world level is one of the best young informers. No one, I said his name, but none of you here have heard of it for sure, and we're all fighting and we're pawning, and today our mouths are full of children. No one even praised him. But we all know that there were not only family members, not just girls and friends, but we also know where all kinds of delinquents dress up, so very often in the media all the cases of negative, there's peer violence that seems to me to be only well shown within the media and it's encouraged, so the Ritz case, I'm talking about him. So he encouraged a variety of activities, not only at the level of institutions, but I believe that the media showed the case very well, and in this case I commend them, at least that's what I managed to see in that case. They encouraged peers to a series of activities, to a series of measures, in response to this peer violence. Here, and in this context, I will conclude this debate with an appeal to the media for a deliberate report on all children's rights, not only their violations, but also for the purpose of this proactive action that we constantly highlight in the context of the activities of the attorney's office for children, to sensitising the public in general the existence of children's rights. And lastly, I can only say that I will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33166	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect quote, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33167	It's not exactly a statement from a colleague that there's been a abuse of reports and children here. All that has been said here, it seems to me that most of the debates in the debate are the emphasising of the quote, that is, the fact that the government and you, from most of it, are persistently refusing to accept the 3/4 remarks and suggestions of the Ombudsman for children.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33168	Replica, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33169	Well, I'd just like to be a colleague. ... No, she had a correction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But here I am now going with a replica and by a good old custom in response. So I disagree and cannot accept that today there has been politicisation or exploitation of this report or any other political purpose or daily political purpose. I personally consider myself a parliamentary representative that I have the right to be critical of the fact that, through the reports of individual attorneys, we are today speaking in this particular case of the Ombudsman for children, but for many years they have been repeating irregularities to which the Government has no answer. And we have the right to point out that. And call on the Government to show at least a little more hearing and to accept the suggestions and recommendations that come from the level of this office. Therefore, I see no reason that anyone's debate here today is going to be qualified to try to use it for daily political purposes. In addition, colleagues Kalash and you have at your club colleagues and colleagues who could have also appeared for discussion, so perhaps to give some different tones to today's debate, not to call now all of us here today who have discussed this report, either through those few committees which, unfortunately, have been held by just a few committees, either today at this plenary debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33170	Replica reply, Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33171	Thank you very much. If I were to continue in the spirit of your replica, then I could tell you that unlike your commitment to cameras and members of your party, you could engage and participate very actively in both the work of the parent board and discuss ultimately and on child rights issues. But they're not coming, they're not working. And if there were no members of the ruling party, the board couldn't even be held. So please stop the debate. Let's discuss this at that level. What I'm saying is that you have the right to your position just as much as I do. But Mrs. Sobol, I've given everyone here clear arguments that I've supported with the facts of the evaluation of the children's institution, and I've equally cited the answers I've received from the child's attorney. Because if it wasn't like that, as I said in my presentation, and feel free to take your transcripts and process it, so replicate me anytime, then I'm sure it would have happened for the attorney to feel like she was failing and to resign in her place. Well, it was the only coincidence that everything would be as black as it stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33172	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 15.00 hours. It's Mr. Attorney Dragutin Lesar's turn at 15.00. We continue with the session and the debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33174	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In the attorney general's report, one of the special chapters is the educational rights of children. The area had 121 items from last year, 88 transferred, so 209 items. This is a significant number and shows that they followed, worked, received complaints, applications, and tried to help. The primary school is mandatory in Croatia. Parents who don't send their children to elementary school by Croatian regulations commit a violation. Can you imagine that in 2009 in Croatia we still have to fight the fact that some of the children do not attend primary school and most often by the guilt of parents, by hiding their parents. Such practices are likely throughout Croatia, but what I especially know is widespread among children in the Roma community. I think that no state, no government, no ministry of education or family, especially family, because in that vault is the money for the problem I want to point out, and not in education, can compromise with anyone on the fact that children don't go to primary school, or that they go to the first two, three, four classes and don't finish primary school. There must be no compromise. Because because of the lack of elementary school, these children lose the possibility of continuing high school education. I hear he will propose that secondary education in Croatia be mandatory. And we have a situation that is still a primary school education for a part of children in Croatia is not mandatory because they do not go to primary school. They're dropping school in the third, fifth, seventh grade. In addition to making it impossible for these children to continue in high school education, employment is also difficult for them. So these are long-term consequences. Back in the last nine years, Croatia must say that some government and many other institutions have taken a number of measures to educate parents in the Roma community. A series of measures, so-called measures, were applied. positive discrimination such as the preparation of Roma children for enrolment and school leaving through preschool education, through special groups of preparation, playrooms and in any other way. It is true that some of the Roma associations have done much to influence their parents. There he may have singled out the Roma for Roma project which has really contributed significantly to changing the situation. But what's the problem? There is no progress if we remain only in these moves of education, conversation, persuasion, proof and funding. The school government, the educational authority tolerates that fact by not reporting to parents whose children do not come to school, not wanting to create problems. They're looking through their fingers because if these applications get too much, they'll have a lot of visits to the educational inspection. Why should I, as head of the school, be exposed to constant surveillance. Not everyone does that, but there are cases like that, and where the charges are filed, the criminal courts are waiting for the cases to go out of date. Most often objects end up in antiquities that also misdemeanors do not want to deal with because they tell me next. The fine doesn't make sense because they won't pay for it and I can't pay for it. The prison sentence's almost inconclusive because no one's gonna take him to jail. And then why spend money on actions. If it doesn't matter to everyone in this country, why should I, as a criminal court, care? A system of tolerance for that problem has been created that we all know exists. We all witness such phenomena and can be located exactly in which schools are present, which schools report and which are not, where they are sanctioned and where they are not, but I argue that without a combination of these educational and educational measures, influences and programmes implemented by Roma associations, and also by the Government's Office for National Minorities and without the repression of results, there will be no, so we have to combine things. Every parent whose minority community belongs to and regardless of what minority community or majority must be treated equally by the state authorities of education, the Ministry of Family. Sending a child to school is a violation punishable in this country and every parent must be sanctioned, not because of him, but because of the children. These children, after they stop being bonds of primary school and are 15 years old, are no longer a parent problem but a society. That's when the conflicts arise, then the school boycotts appear, the ban on sending children to school that we, unfortunately, had to bear witness to such an example, the appearance of criminality among minors, begging, wandering, and all. If we know where this problem is, if we know why it comes to it, if we know who can help everything, then I think Madam Attorney-General that your authority in the form of an appeal, a repeated appeal to the Ministry of Education, to the Ministry of the Family, as two key state-level resolutions, but both the judiciary and the persistent repetition will begin to resolve itself. I support all measures of positive discrimination, necessary and necessary. I object to the absence of repression, and only in that combination can we do something about it. And in the end, children patients. The law on the protection of patients' rights is the same for all citizens. Children are a special risk group and I ask you to address the medical chamber and the Ministry of Health and repeat the ban on the media not to defend any report of any patient’s medical condition, especially a child to which we witness, unfortunately, often with the discovery of the identity of the child, directly or indirectly. Indirectly in a way to challenge the secret identity of the child, but information about the parents, the name and the identity of the child is published and from where it is from. No doctor in this country, not one medium, not a microphone, not a single camera, not a single journalist's pen about the child's health condition can say anything, and this happens especially after the accident, the accident, when the justified public is disgusted when children are injured. But that can't be the reason to violate a child's so significant right, a patient like the secrecy of the health condition. And I can't understand how a profession that has its oath forgets that fact and allows itself to publicly convince into the cameras what all the children have experienced, which parts of his body and body are damaged and that we are now not elaborated, I think of doctors of course. Please help us to prevent such behaviour by doctors and media and thus also to act on this part of the protection of children’s rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33175	Mrs. Susana Bilić Wardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Madam Advocate, State Secretary, Associates, Advocates for children, colleagues and fellow MPs. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2008 6th in a row which the Ombudsman for children as the authority of the Croatian Parliament delivered to this High House for discussion and adoption I will support. I also welcome the behaviour of the Croatian Government given in the opinion delivered, which has instructed the competent authorities of the state administration to take appropriate measures in the course of their work to remove the irregularities listed in the report and to further consider, in direct contact with the Ombudsman for children, certain observations with the aim of their immediate removal. This quality and comprehensive document in 14 chapters and 273 pages shows the state of respect, i.e. the threat of child rights in all segments of society. Do we know that the fundamental job of the Ombudsman’s office is to monitor all areas of life and children’s rights, to look at the whole, to assess whether it can be better handled in the protection of children, to point out irregularities and to encourage the competent authorities of activities, and to propose activities based on the full introduction, then this report shows that the Office of the Advocates for Children does so well. During 2008, the Ombudsman’s office handled 2075 new cases of which 989 were reports of individual infringements of children’s rights and 1086 general initiatives of the office. In 2008, 2387 children were covered by individual rights violations. In addition, in 504 transferred documents from earlier years, all of which means handling in 1493 individual cases. The increase in the number of items and apriori initiatives does not necessarily mean an increase in child rights violations in the Republic of Croatia, but also an increased sensitivity of society to both the institution and adults, as well as children themselves as children as subjects of the Convention on Children's Rights to the achievement of children's rights and the prevention of their violations. I am sure that the increased reporting of individual infringements of children's rights has also contributed to the work of three regional offices in Rijeka, Split and Osijek. And when I mentioned regional offices, since I come from Brod-Posavina County and respecting that the regional office in Osijek was opened in June 2007 and that during 2008, as it was visible from the report only worked with one employee, counselor for children, I hope that the visit of institutions dealing with children in the area of Brod-Posaviska, Požeko-slavonski and Virovitica-Podravska County will take place in this year 2009, because only those in Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County were observed during 2008. This is what I express in my desire for stronger sensitivity, respect for children's rights in the area of these Slavonian counties, which, according to the number of reported children's rights violations, is visible whether we judge whether there are not or are in negligible numbers of cases. And we all know that's not the case. The tour of children who are staying or are in temporary or seeking accommodation with natural and legal persons and other legal entities on the basis of specific regulations and tour of other institutions where children are entitled and obliged by law on the Ombudsman for children with co-workers has worked during 2008 to visit 10 homes of social care, 1 shelter for victims of domestic violence, 6 family centres, 9 health institutions and 10 prisons and on the spot has convinced themselves of the conditions in which children are staying, and has therefore indicated and recommended to the competent state authorities that they need to improve them for the purpose of achieving and protecting the rights of children located in them. And in this report, many predecessors have said, the same remarks are repeated, but I stress, now in other legal persons the attorney has visited. What I find positive is that the situation in the repeated tours, the institutions in which the gaps, observations and shortcomings were recorded, and such visits were also during 2008, so the re-shows changes in the best. When, and to stay in one segment, when we talk about the lack of certain specialists in health institutions, it is primarily about pediatricians and psychiatrists for children that we are aware that in Croatia, we must be aware that there is a total lack of a doctor in Croatia. We know that specializations last for an average of four years, training two, three, it's clear that things can't change overnight, not for a year, two, so that we all want it in the interests of children. But I also disagree with today's debates, views and opinions that the government and the resolution ministries do nothing about it. I must personally point out that I am looking forward to this year being assigned a subspecialization from child psychiatry and the only psychiatrist at General Hospital "Dr. Josip Benčević" in Slavonski brod who works with children. In addition, I will point out the example of General Hospital "Dr. Josip Benčević" who seeks to meet all the conditions and conditions and become a hospital friend of children in both the children's department and the maternity ward. In general, I would like to see more positive examples in the reports, although I am aware that the attorney's task is first to detect violations or possible failures, so as not to prevent the lawyer, so the role and tasks of first sighting violations or possible failures in order to prevent them through their intervention. And a little review. On page 208, therefore my remarks and remarks, well-intentioned, when it comes to visiting and visiting employees of an office for children on page 208, I quote: "A total of 15 professionals are employed in the home, almost half of whom are working age and high age, which is a problem at work at home." My colleagues and colleagues, I started to count, if someone got a job at the age of 25, we said they were professionals, he's 50 years old today, and I can't agree, although this is a report on the work of the Office of Advocates for Children, that we declare someone at the age of 50 to be a high age when we know how much human or life span, especially women in Croatia, is increasing and then clearly in men is somewhat shorter. But I don't think this remark should stand in this report, if for no reason I have to agree, otherwise I agree because from experience, I'm at home in the board of directors for children in Slavonski Brod and there's an observation that you made in the report that it's so hard to organize work in institutions that deal with children when an employee goes to sick leave, and then you can't accept his replacement until the time of 42 days is up. I accept that, but with this finding in the report, I can't agree and I'm making a little complaint. And since the D.A. has already mentioned a very positive one, now that I'm going back to the evaluation that was mentioned here, the children's counseling institutions on the occasion of five years of office activity, allow me another remark. As a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I am very sorry that this evaluation was not presented at the home office, but we received it two days ago when a committee meeting was called. And that the state of the system in the Croatian state of protection and promotion of child rights is not so bad, I don't know if anyone mentioned it today, but the lawyer is on the board. I will take the same right to quote the 67th page of the evaluation of the institution of the Ombudsman for children, the last paragraph where he says, the person who surely has full right and knowledge to say that, and that is the former Norwegian Ombudsman for children, Mr Trond Waage, who pointed out: "...the Croatian Ombudsman for children achieves excellent results in all areas and on behalf of UNICEF, I would say that we are becoming the ever-increasing ambassador of the Croatian Ombudsman for children. When asked about the best studies, we say look at Croatia." And I want it in this assembly, in this High House and in the Croatian public to come out with this information. Otherwise, I am convinced that by implementing all the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia aimed at strengthening the part of the system that deals with children and families, at the end of the day and yesterday we have adopted here in this House, or we have discussed the bill of acceptance, confirming the convention of one, thus all testifying in favour of what I am saying. In addition to those resources set out in the budget and for this year, as well as continuing the activities of the Ombudsman's Office for Children contribute to even better respect and protection of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia and in this year 2009. From the above, I will support the 2008 Ombudsman's report on the work for children. Thanks and an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33177	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33178	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with your co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I want to evaluate this report as content, comprehensive and particularly systematic. However, it is particularly important because it has shown many of our society’s problems in one way dealing with the problem facing children or problems associated with children’s populations. However, I would divide the problems into several groups. The first group of problems relate to the work of the state administration on the one hand, the judicial system, so that part of the society that actually exists in a certain way for children's problems, and I would say the decades-old court practice, and the most that is being expressed in that part is on the one hand the need for changes in the law, the need for a more effective judicial system. They are described rather in detail on the basis of certain cases, concrete, in the very report from which it is apparent that you can't actually generalize so say the government is guilty of all these failures. The government is responsible for the efficiency of the state administration, but the system of state administration exists as it has been for more than a decade and has not changed significantly. We are all aware that we are dissatisfied with its efficiency, we are dissatisfied and the efficiency of the legal system, the judicial system. We all certainly have a desire to make certain changes, but on specific cases, regardless of whether it is a problem of establishing paternity, a right to residence, protection from child abduction. So this is one area which was also during the Homeland War especially interesting because we had precisely at the time the children were taken outside the Republic of Croatia into the territory of the country with which we were at war, and that we had virtually no influence on it. What I am not satisfied with is that we as a state have not been able to adjust, edit, nor here for 17, 18 years since the Homeland War when this area has been particularly significant, especially the area from which I come which has been badly injured in the war and where we have met daily with the taking of children across the border. Perhaps an example where it is not a question of the rights of children and parents, but an example that will illustrate the time in which we were then living. A family from my neighborhood decided to leave Croatia and go to the other side. They brought along a 16-year-old, 17-year-old girl, a daughter who then ran away from the neighbouring country twice. As she managed to get back to our area at all, it's not clear to anyone where she was hiding with her sister so her parents could come back for her and take her across the border. I'm saying this because I want to show you today that this question is not fully settled. This is also evident from your report and you yourself have pointed out the need to address this issue of taking children across borders and the risks that exist. So that's one part of the problem that concerns the efficiency of the state administration, but there is another part. He was spoken of by fellow MPs, which is the influence of advertising and media on children. I have to say that all of us together as a society in general have and how to be concerned about the fact that the media has seen an extremely large focus on black chronicles, conflicts, violence, scandals, problems, and, unfortunately, the value of success achieved by children, young people and others is not recognised. And he doesn't get enough attention. A colleague set an example of a certain student who had achieved the observed result. However, whether there is enough space in the media to show that there are extremely successful students and athletes and children in each environment who achieve immeasurable results in the fields of culture, art. Unfortunately, that's not there. And then we come to the fact that young people have too much tendency and alcohol, drugs and other content just because they probably don't recognize themselves enough in those positive things in society that aren't properly recognized, valorized and not enough space in the media is devoted to something positive. She may not be that interesting. More interesting are always the negativity, the black chronicles, but unfortunately, it's one part of a society that neither we MPs in this House nor the government unfortunately can influence. But from this place we should also send a message to all editors, especially national media, and say we are not satisfied with intuitiveism, it has a bad influence on young people, it doesn't direct them in the right direction. We have almost every few days some attempt or bank robbery. Unfortunately, not because the perpetrators of these works, although in principle young people, are hungry, because they cannot solve the naked existence, but because they are inaccessible to luxury objects. We are obviously a seriously ill society, and we need to talk about the causes of this disease so that we can cure it. In the end, I thank you for an excellently prepared report that I will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33179	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33180	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Advocates with Associates, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Here he is, after I don't know which one I am, it's obvious that my predecessors have all read 273 pages. This is seen from this extensive individual quality exposure. And I'm not going to repeat a lot of things, I'm going to focus on just one title that says protection and promotion of the rights of children and media that is always good to repeat. And now I'm going to start with the statistics on your report. In 2008, 5,760 articles were published in printed media dealing with the threat and protection of children and children's rights. From that, according to your data, 2 859 to different aspects of children's rights, including the work of the attorney's office for children. What does that actually involve? This includes notices of infringement, but also of promotion of children's rights, including personal, educational, health, social, cultural, judicial protection, as well as the right of children to participate. So, practically everything. Or if I turn that statistics into monthly and daily statistics, then it turns out to me, that's what's very interesting to me, so 238 articles per month or 8 articles per day suggest a lasting presence of children and children's rights in Croatian printed media. And what do we see now, actually, as soon as the media is engaged and what are they investigating? They explore problems of growing up, bring topics about the protection of children's health, the topic of mental health, children with behavioral disorders, problems and education systems regarding the relationship of students and teachers, about prevention of addiction, especially about the occurrence of youthful drinking, and about the social difficulties most difficult affecting children. We must now say that despite the infrequently superficial and simple, as your colleague Serbs have said, the approach many media often refer to the opinion of experts dealing with children, and sometimes they try to pass on to the public and opinions and messages of the children themselves. Now we come up with statistics on the subject in the printed media about violence. 2,000 820 articles were published in 2008 on violence between children and children, which is an extremely attractive topic for the media. Which means retranslated 235 articles per month or less than 8 days. In this regard, individual cases in which the perpetrator of violence has been reported in almost all media and in many of them several times. In this way, children remain focused on public attention as victims and perpetrators of violence, and the way of reporting in which they try to find out and publish as much details as possible about children as possible about their family opportunities, relations with their peers and the environment leave a wide range of space for endangering the privacy of children, as you pointed out. Because of the tragic events in which young victims of beatings died or were seriously threatened by life, the media began to give more and more space over the year to the news of fights among young people, stressing cases where perpetrators were younger than 16 years old. In addition to the assumption that the media influences the image of young people, it also testifies to the current twist in the treatment of these topics. In fact, in the first half of the year, the emphasis in the media on violence was on the need to protect children, i.e. victims of violence, he trafficked into a message at the end of the year about insufficiently strict sanctions and allegedly overly mild legislation when it comes to punishing minor perpetrators of violence. So the central issue is no longer how to prevent violence and support victims, but how to achieve faster and stricter punishment of perpetrators. In addition, the fact that a child up to 14 years of age is not criminally mistaken as the untouchability of the youngest perpetrators of violence and protection against any sanctions. And the media pressure that counterpart Bauk was talking about, based on the issue of dangerous children no one can contributes to, as he said to demolize children, but completely cloudes the wider problem of general relations with violence in society. In fact, the aggressive behavior of adults that you have well apostrophe and mentioned in different areas of life, in the family, then to the neighbors, in the public in the stadiums. We know the heroes of football games, in the media that is tolerated sometimes even rewards as effective behavior that leads to the desired goal, each also reflects on the behavior of children. However, by following the media especially since the last quarter of 2008, which you pointed out, the reader will get the impression that the main problem in Croatia is the overprotection of children who are aggressively acting and who are the only police and the judiciary who can put an end to it. It rarely analyzes the social context in which this occurs and numerous causes, social, family, individuals who lead to this as if children themselves generate violence in society. In the long term, such an attitude can lead to a negative relationship to the protection of children’s rights and further neglect of the needs of children and young people. And what is surprising is that you have also pointed out remarkablely, that there is not enough voice in the public of justice, sociology and social pedagogy experts to address the debate according to rational arguments and warn that the problem of violence in society cannot be solved by tightening sanctions against children. And finally, I'm not sorry I read all 273 pages. It is indeed an extraordinary report and of course I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33181	Thank you. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33182	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Jelavic with his associates, Mr. Secretary of State. A lot's already been said, so I won't say it again. I will, of course, be happy to accept this report, but my pleasure has been mixed with a part of the grief. The satisfaction of Mrs Jelavic in that you have shown us very systematically the whole range of problems we have in insufficient respect and in the explicit violation of human rights in the text that is very exhausting and which at times is dramatic. And in that, thank you and for being able to solve the problem, first we have to look at it and want to admit it. You've done it very openly. And there's my great pleasure and as I said and thank you. There are also sorrows, even sorrows. It actually consists of one side of a constantly registered increase in violence between young people and a whole series of problems, but there is also another source of sadness, and it is almost constantly insufficient concern by the executive authorities for a whole series of problems that are again constantly occurring in your reports, in newspapers, on television and so on. That is, it actually consists of the fact that some good suggestions are being rejected on the one hand. We heard almost one catalog this morning which was all rejected and what you suggested. Likewise, in my court it is insufficient and, in fact, extremely insufficient to respect and follow the principles of prevention instead of treatment. It is much simpler, much cheaper, if at all in conversation with children to use that word, and it is certainly much more painless to prevent certain causes than to treat the consequences of child abuse and in this way and human rights. Speaking of the principle of prevention that is simply on the back of the executive authority is completely insufficiently followed and insufficiently efficient. I would single out other than this principle of prevention, so not enough to pursue the principle of prevention and three other problems. Violence among young people is only a part of social violence and unfortunately Croatia is not an exception, but Croatia is certainly one of the countries, European countries at the top of the number of violence among young people. In this regard, work with parents, families, and families are much different and much more systematic. The natural place to work with your parents is school. And there's my third big, maybe biggest problem working with kids. School in Croatia is much worse in many aspects than we often like to beat and talk. So also at the level of content that very often has nothing to do with life. If you don't believe me, just look at the daily paper from last weekend and the prom questions, for the state's graduation, which is actually part of a kind of philology exhibition. Just remember the gymnastics we had about introducing or not introducing sexual education to school. And remember, please, that even a constant increase in the number of minors is not delinquent, but pregnancy does not encourage the introduction of sexual education into schools, nor does that. So, we have a very traditional school, we have a very non-modern school, we have a terrible lack of school medicine, pediatricians on the other hand, we have a terrible deficit, school psychologists and school educators who need to work with students on the one hand and parents on the other, and we've been warning together for years, and it doesn't change all that together. So schooling may actually be a very big problem. We also have not introduced health care even though we have been talking about it for a very long time. Of course, in order for us to start doing this together we need additional resources but we need to also train teachers to be trained to do such a thing, and not only for what is in the world literature that has been especially multiplied during and after these unfortunate events in us called "conflict resolution" ie. how to resolve conflict rather than "conflict prevention" how to prevent at all conflicts at school, not to talk about the material and social position of teachers who are the basic factor for happy and successful schooling and education of children less and more, etc. I'll repeat one phrase without which I can't. Children are also in their personal lives, and it must be in our social life, in fact, the greatest of valuables and all of us, regardless of the political, valuable, cultural and age-old differences, must devote ourselves to children, especially given some of the cries we have encountered in this report. Give them a happy youth so that they can actually have a much happier and more mature life than they have or we have today. And in this respect, of course, the executive power must play a key role, but also in this, colleagues and colleagues and we MPs must be much more energetic and ask the executive authority to which we are ordered to implement those conclusions that we are making and to carry out the opinions of the expert bodies of Mrs Jelavic, who you are at the helm of which I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33183	Thank you. Replica Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33184	A fellow Flego, a problem here or one special thing that you have apostrophe in your conclusion more and nobody talks about happy children. The problem of a happy child was that of Albert Einstein when he said that mankind cannot be happy while there is an unhappy child in the world. And we have witnessed that in our community from the least to the biggest and biggest city and society in general, and Croatia as a whole, we have unhappy children who show their dissatisfaction by violence, addiction and in all the problems you spoke of and which are so detailed in this report. But that's how things started. The state obviously doesn't care to deal with the drug mob, with drug dealers, with drug cartels, and then its consciousness and conscience washes away the persecution and persecution of children and youth. Such a way has shown for years that the state has escalated, that this is not a good way to fight this addiction. It's a big evil, cancer wound. That we have them, that we don't have them as key witnesses, that you process them. We're losing them as key witnesses in the discovery of that chain. So who does that suit? Here is today the Supreme Court with one provision. It is another and it is good that Minister Shimonovic thinks about this problem and says things will be set up the way we had set them up in 2003 on that trail.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33185	The answer to the line, Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33186	Thank you for this correction that I could only agree with in this formulation. Let's all make sure our kids are less unhappy tomorrow than they are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33187	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33188	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Jelavic with co-workers, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As noted in previous reports, a large number of problems in the work of the social care centre are further mentioned with regard to an insufficient number of professional workers, insufficient education and professional support by the competent authority, leading in a number of cases to insufficient engagements and superficial and misjudges. As this situation has lasted for many years without the prospect of its resolution, they feel an extraordinary resistance when they are referred to the center as a place where they should find answers to certain questions and where they will get help in solving their problem. The need to ensure a sufficient number of professional workers is stressed, an extremely important link and cooperation between all institutions involved in child protection is important. In order to achieve a higher level of child protection in divorce procedures and parental care decisions, the need for more effective judicial procedures with additional sensitisation and education of judges in the field of psycho-social aspects of divorce and the specificities of psycho-physical development of the child as well as child reactions in a particularly stressful situation of divorce of parents. During 2008, the office also acted on reports concerning violence against children. Every form of violence against a child has its weight and leaves lasting consequences. However, sexual violence is the most severe form of violence against children. Although it is traditionally believed that sexual abusers of children are unknown individuals, statistics say something quite different. Sexual abusers are located right in the family, in the home of the perpetrator or the victim himself, i.e. in about 80 to even 90% of cases, the victim knows the unsub. In this regard, abusers are people who are close to their children, with whom children are emotionally bound, with whom they trust, and with whom they expect protection. Recognizing the trend of growth, the Ombudsman’s office expressed its view in last year’s report that in the Republic of Croatia a single national register of perpetrators of sexual violence against children should be established and that the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse provides for the collection and storage of data on perpetrators of sex delicacies to the harm of children. This recommendation is extremely important that we must not ignore anyway. What has also been highlighted in numerous discussions today is the necessity of better protection for children exposed to day - to - day begging. I would also refer to another problem, which is the problem of neglect, abuse and exploitation by my own parents, when a parent in winter, rain, wind, with a child in his arms begging. We see that today almost every step of the way. There is certainly a need for far greater engagement and co-operation and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health and Social Care, competent institutions, and we really need to be concerned about the lack of acceptance of the recommendations and proposals made by the Ombudsman for children to the competent authorities. In this year as well as in previous years, the D.A.'s office also followed the way media reports on children, especially its negative aspects, according to reports received from citizens. The most frequently reported violation of the child's right to privacy, disrespect for the dignity of the child, the children are vulnerable and may be further traumatised and negatively affected by inappropriate reactions to the environment, make them intimately available to everyone, expose them to traumatic evaluations, unpleasant comments, and possibly even endanger their safety. It is particularly worrying that the social care system as one of the most important features of protecting children’s rights has a number of weaknesses that cause its ineffectiveness. As this situation lasts for many years and without a chance to solve needs is a quality and thorough reform of the social care system. It is therefore expected from the Ministry of Health and Social Care to actively engage in the final resolution of this burning problem, to take responsibility and protect the system from further collapse and thus weaken the protection of children's rights. In particular, it is also an unacceptable slowdown, ineffectiveness, insensitivity of the judiciary in percentages of children's rights that have also been addressed for many years. The hope remains that judicial reform will identify the problems of protecting children's rights and give them the right priority and importance. Many institutions are passive and in most cases act as though they are the release of responsibility for child protection. The failure of the system and the failure to take measures by the competent institutions gives rise to the impression that bodies established at different levels and with specific responsibilities and powers in protecting the interests of children expect someone else to solve problems for them. The scope of the existence of a parallel system is opened which, by transferring the responsibility of the participants, promotes legal uncertainty. It is not good for many institutions, organisations, associations, and experts on a particular problem to remain silent, awaiting the prosecutor's reaction, forgetting their own responsibility. Once again, I would like to reiterate that this report does not differ much from last year, which means that almost no progress has been made either in the welfare system, the judiciary as well as in the area of inter-resorship cooperation. Due to insufficient acceptance of the recommendations and proposals made by the Ombudsman to the competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33189	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33190	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that many here today spoke about this subject, a colleague of mine mentioned the parents ’ words first. It is true that many institutions, many social factors and state institutions are extremely important in raising children but also in the status of children who will enjoy society, however, it is important to stress that a warm home, a parental hug is one of the most important factors in raising children and that they can first give us a smile on the face of a child and it should be our first priority for all. And I would also take advantage of the opportunity from a methodological and content aspect to commend this report to the public defender for the children because it could be a quality indication to all those who bring the report into this House. And this is something in my opinion and my conviction is the most qualitative report I've ever seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33191	Thank you. The final review of Ms. Attorney General Mila Jelavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33192	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So here's what I'm saying right now in the end, actually, first of all, I want to thank you all for a very contentious debate, for the discussions, for everything you've noticed, suggested. From the position of the lawyer and the person who together with our associates is doing this job, I can only say that every discussion and everything that is told here today will be an incentive for even better and more content work. The area we're working on is really wide. There's a lot of issues, there's a lot of aspects, there's a lot of everything we have to do and we need to deal with it. Of course, the children deserve it and that the children mourn it and not a single application of any kind or anything we can't and can't keep quiet. As long as one application comes to us about the threat of child rights or violation or anything, we must be loud, we must speak, warn, and ask for in fact to either reduce the number of applications or simply not to be, or to reduce or not to be such cases either by inviting parents, institutions or anyone else to correct their behaviour, behavior, working with children and to adapt to really protect their child’s best interests. Violence is often mentioned here today, and I'd just like to say one sentence about it because it seems to me that we all have a lot to talk about and that we have to be effective in suppressing it. First of all, I have to say that adults must be an example of children and prevention programs and prevention would certainly want to be directed to adults first because children learn from the adult model. If we adults know how to deal with violence and in the right way and do not show the forms of violent behavior that children will copy from us and, of course, raising children in that direction at the same time, I am sure that the number of cases in which we read, hear, see or witness will be reduced. Today from this place I invite everyone to cooperate with all those bodies, institutions, individuals who in any segment of childcare work to join us or join us and to be together in the function of protecting children because in this way we will also show them that they are in the first place, that they are most important to us. Of course, I also invite all of you here as Parliamentarians to help with your activities to improve the position of children in society, to make children more visible, more present, and to really show them how and through regulations, but also through all other documents and behaviors, we really think of them as they really come first. I thank everyone once again for all these words that are said here today, spoken, and I can only say that the office will continue to carry on with that capacity and with all the knowledge that we have and we can carry out our role, mission, or legal obligation and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33193	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33194	We are moving to the 2008 Ombudsman's report on the work for children. Proposer of counsel for the children. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report was accepted by the majority of 103 votes in favour and 1 abstention. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system proposes to the Croatian Parliament to draw conclusions that read. The competent authorities of the state administration shall be tasked with taking appropriate measures in the context of their action to remove the irregularities mentioned in the report. Let us please join and vote in favour of the proposal of the Constitution Committee. Score. The proposal by the Constitutional Committee was adopted by a majority of 97 votes in favour and 1 abstention. The SDP representative club proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adopt a programme of measures to improve the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia within 60 days, taking special care of the problems in implementing the rules and the proposals set out in the 2008 Ombudsman's 2008 report. Would the Government's representative like to make a statement on the proposed conclusion? Mr. Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33195	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the government does not accept the conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club. And I must mention the protection of the rights of children's interests is at the top of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia, children enjoy the special protection prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and by a series of legal rules in order to protect the welfare of children, their education and development and to create social, educational, cultural, material and other conditions for the permanent welfare of children, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a series of strategies, programmes and protocols that are being implemented, so that they are not listed here, there are several dozen. It should be pointed out that in order to develop the measures and activities of the National Plan of Activities for the Rights and Interests of Children, all recommendations of the United Nations Child Rights Committee have been incorporated which the Committee has concluded and delivered to the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of examining the second periodic report of the Republic of Croatia under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33196	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33197	Mr. Secretary of State, we remain at our conclusion because, as you said, neither the Government would have reached the conclusion that it had made, which is that it had entrusted all the competent authorities of the state administration to take appropriate measures to remove irregularities, nor would the lawyer's report have nearly 300 pages of tightly typed text. We believe that, in addition to the conclusion of the Government, which is almost identical to the conclusion of the Constitution Committee, which essentially states that the authorities of the state administration should do their job, and apparently according to the Ombudsman's reports that they are not doing it. We consider it necessary to draw a conclusion that would oblige the government to finally do something. So we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33198	Thank you. So I put to the vote a proposal to conclude the SDP's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept and insists that it be accepted. Let's get involved and vote. Score. This conclusion was not accepted. It was voted by 34 MPs, 2 were abstentions and 65 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33199	We are going to the next item - Report on the work of the Ombudsman on Gender Equality Proposing Advocate for Gender Equality who delivered this report on the basis of Article 22. Gender equality laws. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Gender Equality, Defence, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The lawyer for gender equality, Mrs. Gordana Lukač Koritnik, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The introduction should, of course, point out that it is the 6th annual report I submit in my term of office, which describes in fact all the activities of the Advocate's Office for Gender Equality during the reporting year. However, this is the first report after the adoption of a new Law on Gender Equality, which in one part amended the powers, obligations, responsibilities of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. And one of the key news that I would like to point out is that we are actually now doing the tasks of an independent body in charge of combating discrimination in the field of gender equality. As always, as in previous years, we were obliged to follow the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and Other Regulations on Gender Equality. Only by following these provisions and these documents can we conclude whether there has been any progress, in which area and in what way, which can actually be proved or shown. That is precisely why this report is so extensive because it contains several research or analysis, a total of 12, related to the monitoring of the application of certain legal provisions. Therefore, precisely because of these monitoring obligations, but also because of the obligation to carry out independent research, which is laid down by the new law in the jurisdiction and obligation of the Ombudsman and this report includes certain research. I especially point to those related to the position of women on the labour market. And this time I would like to point out that during this reporting period, the attorney's office has not only dealt with issues of discrimination but also with gender equality because the concept of real equality seeks to remove unacceptable effects of applying equal rights to a really unequal person. As an example from this report, I point out incentives for the employment of women victims of domestic violence, because although the law applies to everything equally, they are persons who do not have equal opportunities and these incentives are necessary and it was important to find out whether they are effective. We have specifically analysed the application of the media legal provisions, because by pointing out that we gave extensively before the assessment all possible regulations and codes that the media should take into account in its reporting. If we know what their obligations are then we can assess this report more specifically. As far as statistics are concerned, we worked on a total of 1,009 items, 937 open in 2008 and 72 transferred. We ended 96.6% last year and the rest was transferred 3.4% for this year. The 309 cases concerned complaints from citizens and citizens, and 288 new ones. So, we received more complaints than in the previous reporting period, and this particular increase is expressed in the area of employment and labour, so discrimination in this area. But there were, of course, objects we opened on our own initiative. Looking at damaged persons by sex, we still have 62.5% of women and 13.5% of men, and the rest can be groups of women or groups of men, depending on who complained to us, whether they're textile workers or Mungosi, it's so that it's one statistic because it's not just individuals and individuals who complain. We have sent 34 written warnings, 39 recommendations and 37 proposals, a total of less than in 2007, which is the result primarily of our assessment of improved police work and welfare centres. Looking at the area from which the complaints came, further from the City of Zagreb, and then from Split-Dalmatia and Primorje-Gorski County. The basis of discrimination, of course... gender, and other grounds for forbidden discrimination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there is something in particular that needs to be said about employment and work. Although we note a number of complaints concerning labour and employment discrimination, I believe that discrimination is still rarely reported, which is also witnessed by a small number of judicial proceedings conducted on this basis. The reason for not reporting discrimination is, above all, a desire to preserve a job, not worsen working conditions, but also a lack of knowledge of the possibility of protection of the right. We have explained all of this in concrete examples because really after we meet the complainants about the procedure, very often we are trying to solve it in the workplace before they make a report that might make it difficult for the situation, so most people continue to report when it is practically already certain that they will lose their jobs and that they themselves have nothing to lose if they make it and apply it. It's important, and I think we've explained it in this report, not knowing the possibility of protecting justice. In addition to all possible laws, the Labour Act, collective agreements to civil servants and tenants, mechanisms providing job protection are still not used. And what is to be determined? That many didn't even know that these mechanisms existed. As an emerging form, I would point out further labour harassment, as well as discrimination in employment, prevention of progress at work, and prevention of access to professional training and training. I must say that as regards discrimination in employment, it is necessary to start from the fact that job ads must be in line with the Gender Equality Act and we are recording very high progress because within a few years we have reported 40% of respect, we have come to this analysis, the Law on Gender Equality, today we can say 78%, and I have to stress that without repression. There are no repressive provisions, it was only based on thousands of warnings we sent about it. At the same time, this advertising means eliminating discrimination in the language. Women, of course, also file this kind of complaint, and we think that one of the problems is that some employers are not considering complaints from the aspect of protecting the dignity of workers or workers, but rather as possible a major violation, which is something completely different, so the results are certainly not good because discrimination is not really taken into account, but rather whether or not another offence has been committed. We also received complaints about the protection of motherhood. The labour market, especially I warn of this work report for a certain period of time. Working for a certain time, and our analysis shows that the surveyed women, over a thousand of them, are still one large sample, on average working for over 3 years. This can only point to abuse of the provisions of the Labour Act, and such abuse leads to discrimination against these women, especially pregnant women who can not actually renew that contract afterwards. As a result, I firmly believe, we also held a round table on the subject, that the Labour Act should be amended, that the possibility of abuse should be limited, that the shorter possible duration of the work contract may be reduced to a certain time, that the number of consecutive contracts may be reduced to a certain time. It should not be forgotten that often they are concluded only for a month and so for several years, and that this uncertainty certainly prevents people from reporting any kind of offence, including discrimination. As for incentives, let's say for women victims of violence, although we have analysed the impact of all these incentive measures, there are obviously problems, that not enough employers have shown interest in this kind of incentive. So the state predicted money, but it's not used. We have come to the conclusion through research and conversation with employers that some have had no information about it and some do not consider them stimulating, as it obliges them to a too long period of work contracts and to a certain salary that they are actually not safe because of their business on the market whether they will be able to meet it. Therefore, we think that these measures should be created in a way that would be more accessible to employers, especially with regard to the documentation that needs to be collected in order to obtain the incentive at all. As for all those other aspects that we need to analyze regarding the position of the woman on the labour market. It is true that the total number of unemployed is reduced. In 2008, it was smaller than in December 2007, but the proportion of women in registered unemployment rose from 61% to 62.4. We ran an additional analysis based on the available ones, so one small calculation showed that even more than 16% of women are unemployed by age groups in the years 50 to 54 years. It means that this is one indicator that can help us especially the Government to foresee special incentives in creating measures related to the employment of this category of women. As far as violence is concerned, I think we can say that we're making progress here. Although the number of violence reported remains extremely high, police have received 16 thousand 885 requests for police intervention. That is still 5.4% lower than in 2007. But from the talks with the parties, by analysing complaints, by visiting women's shelters that we do regularly every year, it is obvious that the obstacles to the application that existed earlier years are becoming less and that women are actually without restraint, because they are mostly victims of violence report this violence. So we can still attribute the drop in applications to the fact that in this area it is done, that protection is better, and better protection means less relapse in any case. Also, as far as police work is concerned, the underlying problem is certainly not in providing the protection itself, but in the lack of information on victims of violence, actions taken and measures against the perpetrators by the police or the outcome of their reports to the police, i.e. the outcomes of criminal and misdemeanour proceedings. It can be concluded from the cases under consideration that the number of complaints relating to police conduct would be reduced, that the police were in line with points 3. In time, the Protocol informed the victim of the measures taken and that, during the course of police proceedings, they had properly and clearly come to know the victim of violence with its legal rights, but also that the complainants and complainants had received reviews of the court's decisions in accordance with their law. So the lack of information is certainly one reason. As a result, we have found that many complaints are unfounded and the police have indeed taken what is in their jurisdiction. However, with the aim of monitoring the implementation of the family violence protocol, we have investigated how they comply with their obligations. I'm talking about obligations. They are obliged and I stand clear that they are responsible for the implementation of the protocol. How co-ordinators and co-ordinators do it in state administration offices around the county. It is one segment that has certainly not done the job in a satisfactory way, i.e. it differs from county to county, and even from individuals who are in charge or individuals who are head of the commission. Namely, from the answers provided to conclude that some coordinators or coordinators cannot participate in the meetings of the Committee on Gender Equality, although it is not a condition for them to be called to committee meetings, but rather vice versa. Or they don't invite them at all. Some, however, point out the lack of support in the work, and some obviously do not know their obligations under the protocol either. I think when we talk about domestic violence, but also beyond, and I think that the reports were earlier, and that by following the media, we need to conclude that without special efforts at local level, we need to do something to prevent violence. The government’s own efforts through campaigns or through the establishment of certain bodies certainly cannot be opposed without involvement at local level. Very often, rather than having an event tragic, related to domestic violence be an alarm to the community to consider the situation in its environment, they do not do so at all and report that they have never discussed it and that they do not know what other factors to cooperate with. However, we also expect progress because we have asked for a standard reporting methodology to be developed, so that not all of us will report according to our own opinion. And it entered the National Strategy against Family Violence. The form was completed last year, but is now practically made. And I think that next year we'll be able to make a much more detailed report of what's going on in the local environment about family violence. We've covered the area of education this time, but of course we haven't analyzed textbooks like we did a year before. As far as the election is concerned, they were gone last year. It's also not the subject of this report. And for education, I think it is only necessary to point out that we continue to monitor segregation in the field of education. Men and women are still mostly educated for so-called. men's or women's professions, and that's how they get jobs, and that's how they get salaries afterwards. So women work in underpaid sectors and eventually end up with pensions. And even though it's one process and it can't be done overnight, I think there's a need for extra effort. And here we hope that and yet this will be the deadline for the implementation of the National Policy to promote gender equality. One part refers to exactly what I was talking about. As far as the media is concerned, we analyzed the media very extensively but also TV videos, and in the last year, we have to say that we really only found two videos that we think are completely unacceptable while others are abundant in stereotypes. And I would just point out here that in advertising cosmetics it is most often created in women's sense of fear, discomfort, discomfort, shame of appearance and then, of course, we are surprised and we are struggling with anorexia, bulimia and other forms that can directly connect to this kind of advertising. We have also made recommendations about the media, and I especially want to single out that in our opinion men should be involved in gender equality because we all testify if any show is when they actually talk about gender equality on television that they are always women. And also the diversity of topics is not present in the content of television shows that we have analyzed. It's mostly about health or violence while the other topics he has are not really represented at all. Finally, I believe that we will have more knowledge of discrimination in the field of labour when we implement the provisions of the new Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination when we will get absolutely certain judicial information on how many disputes are being brought to the courts at this point which we do not know at all. Given that the issue of women in the labour market is closely linked to the question of how they should actually align their professional and private lives with something that sets out laws for us, which the directives and recommendations of the European Union also suggest to everyone in Europe that they do something to do and improve the position of women. I think we must turn not only to the Labour Act but also to collective bargaining as one possible mechanism where this position would be improved. We have reported some examples where let's say a neutral norm about that those who worked will get, say, a bigger Christmas than those who were not direct and have discriminatory effects on mothers, who were absent because of maternity leave or due to child illness. Therefore, the effects are discriminatory and these are things that can be changed by collective bargaining. Here, I think it's the basics of the report, and of course I want to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33201	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33202	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed today June 4th a report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality in 2008. The Committee considered that report as an interested working body and pointed out that certain results have been achieved in the area of promoting gender equality over the past year but that this is not yet satisfactory. It has been pointed out that the Ombudsman's report shows that the legislative framework is largely rounded up, i.e. that the adoption of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination established a whole system but that implementation remains lagging behind the possibilities it provides. In particular, the need for co-ordinated activities of all social factors in this area is highlighted as best shown by the results achieved in improving the protection of victims of domestic violence. The members of the Committee particularly stressed the importance of this report as a source of good analysis and data for the preparation of the report to be submitted by the Republic of Croatia to the United Nations Committee following the application of the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, in particular taking into account the fact that we have received a recommendation from this section on the removal of segregation in education. As the debate highlights segregation in education causes segregation on the labour market. In addition, it causes pay gaps or lower wages for women of equal value, meaning in other words equal education equal to professional training, which ultimately results in a lower pension for women. A proposal from the government of the Republic of Croatia was supported to discuss the draft of this report by interested parliamentary committees. In particular, the members of the Committee pointed out that no shift in work is recorded in certain areas and that there are no appropriate measures to be implemented, such as in the field of labour market or in the education system. In this regard, it was noted that no measures were envisaged specifically to protect women in the labour market at the time of the crisis since the crisis is the most affected by the female population employed in the industrial, weaker population in the industrial sectors in which they are most represented, for example in the textile industry. Therefore, the importance of finding those measures, whose implementation reduced such segregation in certain activities, has been pointed out. In this context, the importance of the collective agreement is particularly highlighted in order to agree, to bring private and family life into line with professional life, which is one of the mechanisms that can significantly influence and contribute to the full equality of women in the labour market. It is also pointed out that insufficient attention is paid to the issue of women victims of sexual violence and therefore it is necessary to regulate the attitude of the judicial system towards such victims, but in a way that it is common in practice to include in the legislative proposal a provision on the importance of respect for gender equality but that it is precise to determine the protocol of conduct in order to protect them in the best, most effective way. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality is hereby adopted in 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33203	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs. Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33204	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Attorney General, Secretary of State. At the 19th session held on 21 May this year, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the work of the lawyer for gender equality in 2008. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Gender Equality Act and Article 18 The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, the Ombudsman, submits a regular annual report on the work of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the Committee met with the activities undertaken concerning the monitoring and implementation of the Law on Gender Equality as well as other rules concerning gender equality. The Ombudsman's report shows that a better legislative anti-discrimination framework in the field of gender equality has been adopted and that policies and strategies related to the area have been largely implemented. The position of women in the labour market has not changed significantly, the high proportion of women among unemployed, segregation between women and men on the labour market, gender pay gaps and the like continues to indicate gender inequality. It is positive that the provisions of Article 13(2) apply significantly better when advertising jobs compared to previous years. A law on gender equality aimed at abolishing discrimination in employment. In relation to domestic violence, however, improvements in the protection of victims of violence are evident, and the prevention of domestic violence is still insufficient, especially at local level. At the end of the year, an agreement was reached on a model of co-financing of individual shelters and counselling centres for women victims of violence, according to which the government, the city and the county bear 30% of the costs and the remaining 10% of the association itself through donations. But only this year will you be able to see if it works. In the debate followed by members and board members, they positively assessed the report, which was first after the adoption of the new Gender Equality Act. A very important part of the report is considered independent research by the Advocate's Office. Therefore, it is a survey of the position of women employed at a certain time, a study of the use of subsidies for the employment of women victims of violence, an analysis of state scholarships, an analysis of articles related to gender equality, especially the media image of women from rural areas, women in sports and sexism, as well as the gender analysis of TV content. These studies are valuable because they reveal Croatia's reality and attitude towards women in different segments of society. As regards new legislation, the position has been made that the Law on Gender Equality, as well as other anti-discrimination legislation, is insufficiently applied. It is also stated that the European Commission's Law on Gender Equality has been assessed positively, but the problem is implementation since there is no proper practice, i.e. no court cases and judgments. It has once again been warned about women's issues in rural areas and the same poor assessment of women's labour market status is always worrying. Among the most significant problems is the abuse of the Institute of Work for a certain period of time. The problem of the work of gender equality coordinators in state administration offices per county as well as county and city committees of the Committee on Gender Equality has also been singled out. As regards gender equality in the media, it was recalled that the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from this committee, has entrusted the HRT programme council with particular consideration to the application of the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, which speak about the obligation of the media to promote the development of gender awareness through software content, self-regulation and self-regulatory acts, i.e. women and men, and to report to the Croatian Parliament by the end of March 2009 at the latest. A joint meeting of this committee and the HRT Programme Council has also been announced where that report will be presented. The media's responsibility for the impartial and non-stereotype display of women and men as well as the need for media workers in matters of gender equality has been warned. After the discussion, the committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the prosecutor for gender equality in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33205	Thank you. Do the other committees want it? No, I don't. If he wants a representative of the government. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33206	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the SDP club, I will say at the beginning that the SDP Club will support the prosecutor's 2008 gender equality report. Otherwise, we consider it especially this year, an extremely important report that came from the prosecutor, since as already said this year is actually a report for the past four years, the UN's Commission on Women's Rights Affairs, which is actually going to be the government's report, is also doing so. a report in the shadow work of NGOs and independent institutions such as the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality. In the name of the club, I will actually start with one sentence from the final consideration of the Ombudsman in which she said in that first sentence of the final discussion that the 2008 Ombudsman's report shows that a new and better legislative anti-discrimination framework in the field of gender equality has been adopted that policies and strategies related to this area have been largely implemented. What I want to say on behalf of the club is that, given that the Law on Gender Equality entered into force somewhere in the middle of July of last year and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination entered into force 1. The first year somehow seems to us that it is still too little time to assess reality or whether this new legislative framework is really better and more effective. In fact, we expect the 2009 report to actually show the right picture of it. We all remember that last year a lot has been written about this new Law on Gender Equality, a lot has been debated in public especially in light of what the provisions of the laws relating to women's participation in political life were, of course, primarily because of the fact that this law preceded actually here in this year's local elections and there were different thoughts. At that time, the SDP club proposed, I dare say much more radically to say, the provisions of the Gender Equality Act, which would likely have an effect already in this year's local elections, however, did not go through that. Of course, we don't have the data yet as to how this has affected this year's local elections, except that we have the data that a little more women are running for, but we still don't have the data as real and chosen when it comes to county councils, city councils and municipal councils. But what we have is that in executive power we have fewer women in charge and that's something we warned last year when a new Law on Gender Equality was passed. What is becoming more and more unacceptable to the SDP club, in fact, is the fact that in several reports from year to year, individual assessments are actually repeating what would actually mean. Unfortunately, this is not just the case with the attorney general's report, this is also the case with other attorneys, i.e. what is being warned about and what is being warned about with the level of defence, in this case as a lawyer for gender equality, obviously there are not enough echoes in those who should look at it with much more attention, or focus on what is written in these reports in the recommendations given and the warnings of course given. So, on behalf of the SDP club, as we estimate this for all this year's reports by individual attorneys, we also conclude this with regard to the prosecutor's report on gender equality. What we point out on behalf of the SDP Club, especially this year, is almost the same assessment in the report when it comes to the position of women on the labour market. In the final examinations, the Ombudsman stresses that the position of women in the labour market has not changed significantly and remains a high proportion of women among the unemployed. I remind you, the share of women in unemployed is a figure that keeps increasing. It's over 62% today. There is still horizontal and vertical segregation between men and women on the labour market, education of women for occupations that are underpaid tomorrow, so on. "female professions." Of course, as the lawyer herself said, it draws the pay gap behind it, and that ultimately pulls the difference in women’s pensions. A particular problem that stands out, it is already a much larger number of women employed for a certain time and all of this has been a number of years in a row indicating gender inequality. What we think and regret is, in fact, on behalf of the SDP club, I have to say that still in this report, we are aware that maybe a lot of this report, to say the same, but that this year, not all the results of the National Programme, the Employment Action Programme, were shown in the way you had last year. However, what we find particularly worrying is that year after year, the most vulnerable group is to say, when it comes to women on the labour market, it is precisely those who are most employable, which are in the years over 50, between 50 and 54 years of life when there are in the total number of unemployed women, according to the Croatian Employment Institute, 16.5%. Furthermore, the specific problem is working for a certain time and we at the SDP club have on several occasions both on various laws and on this issue talked about, it is an act to say from year to year something called abuse of the institution of work at a certain time because the current Labour Act is also very clear and writes that contracts are usually concluded indefinitely, with certain exceptions. These exceptions have unfortunately become a rule in Croatia that we all know, we all speak, and we haven't found a way to stop this process. Especially today, we are talking here and from the aspect of gender equality, because all the data shows that the huge number of contracts that are being concluded at a certain time are just being made by women. The team is more valuable and research, that is, a poll by the attorney general, together with the Women's Union Group, the Alliance of Independent Croatia, the Independent Unions and the Croatian Union Association of Unions which have actually conducted in some way research or survey and received a picture, as is also called here, of the average woman who works for a certain time. And in fact, the data that has been obtained, I think they're defeated, or I think they're both alarming and something should be done from the state level, whether from the level of the Economic and Social Council, so in these conversations between the social partners or in some other way, because as it's called, which is a picture of the average woman for a certain time. So it's a woman who's of a fertilized age. Somewhere between the ages of 20 and 39, there are over 65%, so women who work for a certain time. Most people don't have children or have only one child, and they'd like to have more children. They have the most common medium professional training, i.e. qualifications. So far, they have also been employed for a certain period of time or a shorter period of time unemployed. They work for a certain time on average for over three years and often in shifts, night work, Sundays, overtime, their wages are lower than average, they have no right to credit, most of them have no real estate in their name, and the chances of getting a job indefinitely are very weak. I think the data that's been given, and what's been said in the report, should really light the alarm light somewhere. Secondly, I would especially like to emphasise on behalf of the SDP Club and remind all of us that last year, a minimum wage law was passed in this House. At that time, we warned on behalf of the SDP club that the law in one part was discriminatory because part of the industry, which refers to the textile, leather, shoe industry, was determined by a smaller minimum compared to other branches. And we have specifically warned that this is even more discrimination because these are the branches of the industry where women are the most employed, and we also considered it discrimination to be women in the field of work. Last year, a panel discussion was held in the lawyer's office organised by the lawyer's office, women and poverty, labour uncertainty and unemployment. It is a pity that no more emphasis is given in this report from this panel discussion which also says the truth that the crisis in which the Croatian society is more affected by women and in times of crisis are women and which in the labour market are much more insecure than men, that this is something that we should take into account from the state level. In particular, what has been processed in this report is the employment of women victims of violence. Why does it matter? Well, because when it comes to the problem of domestic violence and victims of violence, we stayed somewhere more or less on the part where these women and their children are stationed, whether there are shelters, how these shelters are financed and so on, and somewhere for at least a year back, we've been about to ignore the part that, after they've been through, they're in one of the shelters, and how they get back to normal life. To return to a normal life, they need to be taken care of inhabitably, and they need to be employed. However, this report also shows as a report for the past year that the measure concerning the employment of women victims of violence has not moved too far since 6 women were employed in 2007 under these measures, for the past year also 6 plus two who were employed past the measures. And I am once again warning that it seems to me that it is time to look at from the state level what it is that, to say it is not okay when it comes to this measure and I definitely think that there are observations that this measure requires both more information and more communication, but also a lot, a lot less bureaucracy, or we would say simplifying the procedure and the key question is how to enable these women to be hired and not to be further stegmatized, which, of course, none of them would want to accept again. Especially since on behalf of the club, I also want to point out, when it comes to violence and when it comes to the pronunciation of measures. First, domestic violence remains constant and Croatian societies as well as everyone else. Somewhere around the number of violence committed, when we talk about domestic violence, it's about the same in recent years. But what I'm asking again is that it's such a huge disproportionate to what police officers suggest when it comes to a felony, so when it comes to the measures of psychosocial treatment, the distances of the victims from the apartment and the like, the restraining order, the number of measures imposed by the criminal courts. That's a couple hundred times less than what's proposed. We now have a debate on the Law on Police Authorities and Procedures where we know that there is one proposal from the level of the Government's commission to be incorporated into this law a provision on the current distance of thugs from the apartment, whether they own or not, for a period of 10 days. However, I must say that I also tried here during the debate to talk to the MIP representative, but as I received the information, unfortunately such a measure would not seem to pass in this bill. I'm saying this because there's a secretary of state, so maybe until the second reading, there's something else that can be done, but then maybe you should think about what's going on with the other legislation, or the new law on protection against domestic violence. So, on behalf of the SDP club, with everything I've said, I repeat again, the SDP will accept the prosecutor's 2008 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33207	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33208	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the 2008 Ombudsman's work on gender equality. Undercover law on the protection and promotion of gender equality is the Law on Gender Equality, which defines protection against gender discrimination, and mechanisms for creating equal opportunities for women and men in accordance with misdeeds. Despite legislation and the Law on Gender Equality, as well as the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and Discrimination Institutions is still rarely reported because of a desire to preserve a job or because of ignorance of the possibility and protection of their rights. Of course, it is a short period and given the Law on Discussing Discrimination and the New Law on Gender Equality, but we need to work hard to get to know these laws and to know about rights and opportunities. In 2008, the lawyer processed 937 cases. Only 288 are complaints from citizens, which is another proof to us, and 625 new cases from 2008 have been opened to the prosecutor's initiative. 312 gender inequality cases were processed in 62.5% of cases or 195 cases, and in 13.5% or 42 male cases. Compared to the previous year, the number of complaints based on sexual orientation of marital and family status has increased. The most common forms of discrimination continue to be labour harassment, then discrimination in employment, preventing progress at work, and preventing access to professional training. It's not just a violation of the Law on Gender Equality, it's a violation of the Labour Act. complaints on this basis of labour harassment remain in the majority of women, but they rarely decide to appeal to the employer for the protection of their dignity because of fears of possible adverse consequences. Most of them are not even familiar with the procedure and their rights. And this report repeats the violation of the right to the protection of pregnant women's mothers not to offer employment contracts at a certain time when they find out about their pregnancy, and we've heard that they've been working for over three years. Unlawfully, their contracts are cancelled indefinitely or their birth leave is cancelled. Inappropriately, the behavior of a textile company employer who has reduced Christmas Christmas leave by one and a half kuna to workers and workers who have used sickness during the year for each day of sickness or maternity leave. There is no particular need to stress the discrimination involved. The above examples show that many companies have not adopted an action plan to promote and establish gender equality under the Gender Equality Act. It is also evident that there are no reports from coordinators and co-ordinators, the Office of State Administration related to domestic violence and they are obliged to deliver them at local level two to three times a year, which will ultimately result in inefficient prevention of domestic violence. A special emphasis is placed on media advertising where only a female or male person is still mainly wanted. Members and members of the Croatian Democratic Community warn of the most vulnerable groups of women employed by women working in black and those working for a certain time, which has become a rule both in the private and public sectors. From a survey of women who work for a certain time they are mostly women of a fertilized age, we talked about population policy, they have no children or only one working shifts, working nights, Sundays, overtime. In this respect, wages are even lower than average and do not have the right to credit and do not yet have real estate in their name, Mr. Cain. Discrimination of women on the labour market starts already in employment and is one of the strongest indicators of general discrimination between women in society, are not rare issues about marital status, about the number of children, whether they intend to give birth or to have a family multiple times. Women are more discriminated against in the private sector than in the state sector. Men in the private sector have 16% higher salary than women, and women with lower education earn one third less than male colleagues. In managerial and senior positions, difficulties in women's progress are observed. There is a glass ceiling, and these are invisible and artificial obstacles that prevent women from reaching the top. Among managers is 6% women, managers earn 26% more than managers, and 25% of women in employment have higher education versus 16% of men. And at the end of the day, women get ahead of themselves in the underpaid professions. It's the textile industry, catering, trade, education, social services. Of course, women are unevenly involved in economic power, and that is, in any case, a prerequisite for political power that they do not have. The solutions are as we have seen in education, because segregation of education is caused by segregation on the labour market, followed by the pay gap for work of equal value, followed by, of course, a smaller pension. Analyzing domestic violence in 2008 the lawyer received a slight number of complaints concerning violence. The improvement is recorded by the treatment of domestic violence and by trying to contain it. Activities also resulted in a drop in the demand for police interventions by 5.4%. Of course, all praises to the activities of MUp-, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of Justice, which, for example, issued approval in 2008 for the conduct of psychosocial treatment of perpetrators of domestic violence outside health institutions. Inmates convicted of domestic violence on the basis of Article 215 of the prison sentence The penal law in individual prison execution programmes is foreseen to include in the treatment of the related causes of domestic violence. Whether it's alcohol abuse, lack of social skills or conflict in the family. As far as violence is concerned, we can tell the public that she's really sensitized. In the Republic of Croatia, we saw a campaign last year by the Council of Europe to fight violence where the Republic of Croatia joined, including domestic violence and violence against women. However, the lawsuits continue to be filed by women who, following all procedures of police, criminal, criminal, judicial proceedings, stay at women's shelters, decide to continue living together with a bully. The main problem is employment, resolving housing issues, and everything stems from local prevention. The Ombudsman shall also monitor the implementation of the law of the Republic of Croatia relating to the media. According to the Media Act, Article 20(8) determines that advertising is not permitted in which women and men are shown in an offensive or humiliating way in view of gender or sexual commitment. We'll see the next report, but I can't mention here embarrassingly and appearing on the day of silence during these local elections when TV Nova is at 1700 hours and at 1900 and 15.00 hours shows our mayor's wife, then a great city of honour. A prominent woman who points out in a discriminatory and offensive way no matter how much TV wants to show it, whether it's information or something else. I don't know what would happen if a man showed up like that. Or another example from the blog, the evening h. If you turn the candidates from the local election trapped in a male body. So you can think of our Ingrid, our Ivanka, our Vesna, so the colleagues whose head was placed on a man's body. They're not men, they're women with equal rights. And I don't know what they'd look like the other way around, but they wouldn't even dare. Anyway, it's not nice and it's not in accordance with the law. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts the 2008 Ombudsman's 2008 report on gender equality with an emphasis on action on prevention and protection against discrimination under the auspices of anti-discrimination legal provisions. But looking at all this, some of them treating women no matter what political orientation, it may be time for us to have a women's club in this House regardless of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33209	On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33210	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Attorney General, Mr. Secretary. First of all, I would like to thank and thank you for this comprehensive report on work in 2008 in which you have processed several areas of the first indicators on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality, the second topic was analysis in the fields of work, the third activity of the Ombudsman to promote gender equality, and in the fourth chapter was financial business. I'll just take a quick look at some of the areas in the report. In the field of labour and employment, gender discrimination is still strong. Women are in a much worse position. When talking about a job, a woman is discriminated against on the basis of marital and family status. Women still make up a higher percentage of the unemployed. In 2007, it was 61%, 2008. 62.4%. They work in less paid places. Most women are employed for a certain time, which unfortunately becomes a rule rather than an exception. The problem needs to be corrected by amending the Labour Act and reviewing existing provisions of the law. The share of women in top executive positions is still below 10%. The higher the hierarchical ladder, the smaller the women, even though they graduate from colleges. The Law on Gender Equality, Article 1, Article 3, Article 5 regulates the creation of equal opportunities for women and men and in the field of education. The UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women from 91st and the Republic of Croatia requires the removal of stereotyped understanding of the roles of men and women at all levels and in all forms of education through the promotion of joint education and other types of education that help achieve this objective, in particular through the revision of textbooks and school programmes and the adaptation of teaching methods. The 10th Gender Equality is defined by the experts of the Council of Europe as equal visibility, empowerment and participation of both sexes in public and private life and the creation of these equal opportunities begins with education and education. In the assessment of the situation in relation to domestic violence, continued efforts remain to combat this violence, and I agree fully with the report by our attorney-general, saying that, in particular, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of the Interior, which, with the enhanced activity of the Ministry of Justice in the area, led to a visible improvement in the protection of victims of violence when it happened. Police work on cases of domestic violence continues to improve, relevant legislation has been increasingly applied and complemented for several years. Public awareness on this issue is increasing, thanks to the media, but especially to civil society associations and state bodies. And as a consequence of a national campaign to combat domestic violence carried out as part of the Council of Europe campaign, there is much more work to be done both locally and in the psycho-social treatment of violent women while the number of shelters for victims of violence is increasing. I use the occasion and I must remind and publicly say here that my Krapina-Zagorje County does not have a shelter for victims of violence and that in this respect all necessary measures must be taken urgently to ensure the same. The representation of women in politics here's the D.A.'s attorney didn't say much about it, so let's have a few words on the subject as well. I'd just like to remind everyone we know here in the Parliament there are 33 of us, so 21.7%. I would refer a little bit to the results of the previous elections because according to the Law on Gender Equality, when setting up and proposing a list of candidates, candidates for the selection of members, members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government of the political party and other authorised proposings are obliged to respect the principle of gender equality and to take into account the balanced representation of women and men on election lists. A sense of gender imbalance exists if single sex representation in the bodies of political and public decision is below 40%. A gradual increase in the sub-represented sex must be achieved at the latest on the occasion of the implementation of the third regular elections from the date of entry into force of this law, it entered into force on 15 July 2008. As a result of the 2009 local elections, an analysis of candidates, a candidate on valid candidate lists and an analysis of selected lists according to the gender of candidates or candidates can conclude that representation is significantly lower than 40%. It refers to the first round, the results did not include the second round but are not significantly different which points to gender imbalance in favour of men. There are a quarter of women on all lists, or 24.5%, respectively. A few fewer are among the top ten, 22.1% are on the lists and even fewer are holders of the list, only 9.2%. However, when looking at the number of women elected as members of the county assemblies and city councils, the share of women is 24.1% overall. As a result, women's unequal representation may be observed depending on the type of representative body they are running for. How the largest share of women in total among the top ten and as bearer is found on the city council lists. In addition, there are significant differences in the representation of women on lists and election results per county. By comparing the results obtained with the 2005 results, we can conclude that women's representation has increased significantly at all levels, on the candidate lists among the top ten, on the holding lists but they are still not satisfactory percentages. Among the key social and political factors of the establishment of the principle of gender equality is the way the media shows and shows women and men, offensive, stereotypan and demeaning way of showing women and men in the media supports the discriminatory system and contributes to social relations that prevent equal participation of women and men in private and public life. The report sets out a number of examples of media content which the Ombudsman considers to be inappropriate or not in conformity with the Gender Equality Act and other laws and regulations relating to gender equality. The aim of this presentation is to warn the public of various forms of gender discrimination and to display women and men in an offensive and humiliating way in the media. Warning and problematization of such content raises awareness of the unacceptable media content that women and men display as I have said in a humiliating, demeaning and offensive way. I would also like to say about statistics, the Croatian Parliament adopted a strategy for developing the official statistics of the Republic of Croatia by 11 February 2005 until 2014. The programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia and the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in which the majority of the objections of the Advocate for Gender Equality are incorporated with regard to the application of the provisions of Article 17. Gender equality laws. All statistical data and information collected, recorded and processed by state authorities, public services and institutions must be shown by sex. In March 2005, the Ombudsman made significant remarks and suggestions on the proposal for an annual implementation plan, a programme of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 which did not end up showing the provisions of Article 17. The law on gender equality as reflected in the documents adopted in February 2005. This creates objective assumptions for the monitoring of statistical data based on Article 17. The Law on Gender Equality implemented by the State Statistics Institute. The existence of discrimination against women can be supported by different statistics. The existence of relevant statistical data is a prerequisite for identifying the situation of women in different areas of social life and thus for identifying the measures affecting that situation. It's not a waste of a little world statistics. According to UN statistics, women perform 60% of the world's work. They earn 10% of the world's income, they own only 1% of the world's assets, women make 70% of the illiterate in the world, women earn 20 to 50% less for equal work than men around the world. Of the 1.3 billion people living in total poverty, 70% are women. Women perform between 10% and 20% of management jobs, women take 10% of seats in parliaments, 5% of all state presidents are women. In the European Union, women do 80% of household jobs even if they are employed outside the house. Women spend twice as much time taking care of children as men. For the same job, women are on average paid 25% less than men. 20% of women experienced some form of gender-related violence. 98% of victims of domestic violence are women. The view at EU level is that the basic obstacles that deprive men and women of freedom of choice and freedom of decision on their lives are not legal regulations but prejudice and stereotypes. Prejudice cannot be overcome only by changes in the legal provisions but primarily by public awareness, education and information campaigns. And in conclusion, here I will confirm what the Advocate General presented, therefore, the 2008 prosecutor's report on gender equality shows that a new and better legislative anti-discrimination framework has been adopted in the field of gender equality. That policies and strategies related to the area were largely implemented. However, the content of the complaints and the research carried out shows that both increased prevention and protection against discrimination, as well as taking measures including specific measures provided for in the Law on Gender Equality, should be acted upon. And finally, members and members of the HNS Club will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33211	The debate ended in clubs, and as we announced yesterday, today we will also have a debate on this point and on the next point. ... The following is the 2008 report on the work of the Police Attorney. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just like we announced yesterday. Let's have an individual discussion, you should have listened carefully. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33212	We'll talk about the other one later, and now we'll talk about this. Thank you, Mr. President, the esteemed lawyers for gender equality, colleagues and colleagues. Discussing the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality over the past year, they can almost make an identical claim as well as on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children. So, every year we have an ever-increasing report, a more comprehensive report, a report that is abundant with examples, which makes it unquestionably evident that there is a huge work, a huge engagement, so the attorney and her team really care about changing things. So then almost one third of this report points to exactly what proposals should be made, which bodies should do what to improve the situation. And all praise to you, Madam Attorney and your team. By listening to today's debate, she would not, as certain clubs have said, so would the HNS club, but also the presidents of the highest HDZ and SDP clubs, I don't think it should go unnoticed, women have spoken equally because these are identical problems. This is an example, Mr. Vice President, and I am telling all my male colleagues that the important political issues that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, for every citizen and every citizen in Croatia must be addressed together, without any politicalisation. There can only be debates about how a question can be solved well or even better. And this is one big and strong breakthrough. Let's remember in the '90s when we SDP women talked about these issues, specifically maybe only one segment, about the violence that women suffer. It was then to talk about these issues directly to high treason. We've been petrified by different epithets. There were defences in certain units of local self-government and I personally experienced in Zadar that Croats would not beat women. It's something on the trail of that famous courtroom that there can't be crimes committed in the war and so on, and so on. Today this period is far, far behind us and almost there is no sign that it was said by the woman from SDP, HNS and HDZ. That's big, big progress. After all, it speaks of one maturity, but it also speaks of the seriousness of the problem. It also speaks of this, and in all this, the role and merit of the Ombudsman for gender equality which these issues, which have been discussed in detail in this report, discuss not as questions as to how women live their lives as private issues, but rather, even though they happen often in the sphere, in the private sphere, they are particularly addressed and particularly in the public sphere as important political issues. It took a long time for women to feel that what was happening to them in the family until they were killed or had suffered a serious injury before, and they did not know what was happening to them. Not to mention that domestic violence is not a private matter, but that such issues are public issues, social issues or political issues. Equally so serious today, these issues are not resolved, but they are wide open. They're spoken of openly. Once a question, then, or, say, a person in a public life who committed violence, it was not at all a question, it was a private sphere, and even for the bodies of persecution, for the bodies of prevention. It's something that stayed in the world of privacy. Why am I talking to this guy? Not because it's nothing, we all know it, but to draw attention to exactly some other issues that are still considered as being considered to be domestic violence, so on and so forth. These are questions that are understood by themselves. Speaking of questions which a woman therefore as a mother, as a parent, therefore her sex, the biology of a woman today is not a matter that she should... Although in the Constitution and in certain laws, it is that they are the sources of its privileges and of some privileged position precisely because of the fact that she is the only one who can be the creator of a new life, that she is the only one who gives birth to a new life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And unfortunately, those facts are the source of her discrimination. It is not a privilege, as it is written in the Constitution and the law, but a source of its discrimination in those most sensitive areas, in areas of economic freedom. We can talk about all other rights and other political rights in vain if we do not talk about economic rights and economic moments. Today they are neglected in both men and women, and in times of crisis they most show up in women. The woman and her body often have a polygon that draws this or that policy and trains the strictness of the state. Women's bodies are mostly debated in men's politics, and... A scientist, DNA discovery, when there was a talk on these issues, advised his colleagues to stay away from these questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these questions should first and foremost be spoken of by women. Many troubles in our society, even in the world if we don't move on, would be less, let's just look at the statistics of violence. Women are very little involved in this. There's a lot of reason for violence, and if they were to justify violence, then a woman would have a lot more reasons than someone else or a third for that. But discipline, conversations, but it's not about a woman's birth, it's about how she lives her social life, and in private, that's what drove her out of it. How do women live their private lives in the 21st century today? Well, she was the one on the tape, at the factory, or she was the woman from Ruđera Boskovica, very similar. All the other jobs are still on it. But it's not just a natural condition. The state doesn't do anything to change her private life. And then she had very little time to get involved in public life. And that these jobs that simple politics and public affairs require women, values that women have, but that's stalled in every way. So, the question of raising children. It is not a question and trust of children only when a divorce occurs. And who raises children? A woman can only have a child. And who prevents a man from participating more equally in education? But the state, as this does not happen on its own, should encourage men to be with their own children from birth. But that also makes it impossible for the state to do so because the salaries of men are higher, even those who have no such prejudice to do so better one partner or the other, best to do so together because it is for the benefit of children, because children need both mother and father and their unity. But nothing reacts to such situations that a woman is less paid than a man. And something that screams out into the sky above everyone, that we're watching humiliating commercials today. And who does that? Large capital. To God's large capital should be the driver of individual and society development. The headless capital is death for all of us and it needs to be stopped. It leads to moral ruin. She's making a woman look like a half-wit. Such lame conversations that in these ads two women make about some lame products as if buying this production depends on her life or death is beyond any discussion and should be stopped. This public television needs to be prevented. We don't give a shit about that kind of capital. Let them eat it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33213	Thank you. Two replicas. Unfortunately, I didn't hear this in the end. It must have been something peppered. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33214	Thank you very much. counterpart Antičević, it is undeniable that women are very often harassed and discriminated against and humiliated. Even in this high house, we had opportunities to hear offensive sentences addressed to women. Also, it's humiliating and embarrassing for a man's world to see these photo montages of women with male bodies, and I feel very bad about it as a man. You're right when you say that progress has been seen here in recent years. You're right when you say it's expressed in the business and political world. Especially women are humiliated in advertising videos. Not just women, though. They're being abused and portrayed as imbeciles, like they don't have a brain at all. It's inadmissible, but I believe there will be a change in the mentality of the male world. I believe that there will be a change in the environment in which every woman will feel dignified. And I believe deeply and hope that in that case there will be no need to affirm the women's representatives' club in the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33215	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33216	I thank my colleague because I believe that every normal man, whether a man or woman feels uncomfortable watching such stupid and stupid commercials. But what we can do, so here we have to appeal, there will be opportunities to talk about and when it comes to public television, to prevent such content because they are opposed to all possible laws, as well as the basic public television law, I hope to discuss it very soon. But what we can do now, and I think that we soon saw in this crisis where we are and who actually masters, lords of Croatia? This diabolical, insolent, often and filthy capital that has come to us, which is imposed here, which has, which created a new religion from a free market that almost golden calf, the Holy Trinity has been installed. So it's just disgusting godlessness. All privatized, all deregulate and social rights cut. It is an "eldorado" for them and therefore regardless of whether we are an opposition or a position, let this be precisely this topic that we must stop them for the benefit and well-being, but also the survival of Croats and our citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33217	And Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Anticevic-Marinović's, speaking of economic rights, should actually speak somewhat wider, which is difficult in just such a debate with the case, rather than in more places and in a different way. So when we talk about economic rights as well as any other human rights, then we need to talk about equality and equal chances for everyone, regardless of gender or whether it's a man or a woman. And what do we have in this case? We have the advantage of women getting fired. We have the advantage of women doing underrated jobs or jobs with less-paid work. We have almost feminized activities in which a woman is very difficult to come to the executive post. We have conditions for employment where a woman's family is a flaw, and a man's advantage. It is desirable for a man to have a family, a woman to have a family, then her work effects are often underestimated, and in fact it's a minus, not a plus in employment. If in single parents, if it is a single mother, she will tend to get child support, she will find it harder to work, she will work on a less valuable job, the result is poverty of her family, and child poverty is actually the hardest and something that the state would actually have to take care of that children of such families have at least the minimum needed for a happy childhood.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33219	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33220	Well, that all points to what you've now mentioned in women's manipulation. In times of economic expansion, stories come about exactly how women's labour is also needed because then a woman's labour force is needed because male is no longer needed. So then artificial milk is good, equal value, immediately propaganda goes in that sense, niche kindergartens, schools near factories and so on. When it comes to the time of recession, which is what you colleagues of Zgrebec were talking about, then, of course, we first get rid of women again, those same ones that were recently as their labour force worked and needed. So, the first ones get fired, their chances are reduced, and the family has an automatically subordinated role, and then the whirlwind that I am not and I'm not repeating what it's all about, not only that economic impunity, because in our family, the poverty that the IMF was talking about last year is about and warned about Croatia and independent of the crisis in Croatia, the Croatian door houses poverty, that it really has a female face in Croatia. The highest number of unemployed, the highest number of those who worked were not paid, the highest number of overtime hours were carried out by women. So what kind of men take advantage of women's labour? They're big, brave, full of media, and from time to time they're benefactors. They should refuse their gifts and take what belongs to all of us, and take what they took from us and steal from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33221	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33222	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation of the 2008 prosecutor's report on gender equality report, I would like to say that I will support this report, although not with excessive enthusiasm. Why not just overly enthusiastic? Because I believe that the recent local elections and their regrettable balance regarding the number of women mayors, mayors, mayors and council members in the elected parliamentary bodies pointed to all the inadequacy of certain provisions in the summer of last year of the passed Law on Gender Equality, which, in my opinion, speaks with too many praises and insufficiently critical. I remind you that in the SDP club we warned about the absurdity of the provisions which commit 40% of the sub-represented sex, which are women moving to the third election cycle, i.e. to 12 years. I believe that it was the attorney's duty to take advantage of all the influence and power that ultimately was given by the Croatian Parliament as the most legislative body of the state, in order to change these insufficient ambitious conservative and patriarchal provisions of today's applicable law. My home is from a step-by-step attorney during last year's debates on this bill, but the content and reports we are discussing today that the Ombudsman missed and did so. And in this lies its enormous responsibility but also the responsibility of the government's office for gender equality which and who have not done and did everything in their power to regulate this extremely important political issue in the law in a different, better and more effective way, the question of the level of civilization, the democracy of Croatian society, the issue of fundamental human rights. My deep belief that there will be no significant positive shifts in gender equality in our society until women gain greater importance and a role in political life, because right there lies the greatest power in society. And this was such an extremely important opportunity to miss out on the current Law on Gender Equality, unfortunately missed. The D.A. and the Government's Office for Gender Equality is on the table. The following is not illogically asked, and what is the role of the prosecutor for gender equality and the Government's Office for Gender Equality? If this is the role of a beautiful and democratic facade on the hard patriarchal face of the Croatian political elites, then we don't really need these institutions, because they're only mingling those progressive elements of society in the belief that we live in a society that strives... democracy, though de facto it is not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I cannot reconcile with the arguments that such provisions are as far as possible. I remind you of the provisions that give 12 years to postpone and lower fines for political parties and lists that will not respect it in 11 years. Because it is not like that, and the role of the lawyer is to show this and to expose the political elite that such shameful solutions hide their undemocratic patriarchal face. I think the government's Office for Gender Equality and the D.A. today is also aware of their failure to act because we are being falsified by the growth data, not at all sensational but still increasing the number of women on the lists in the recent local elections. And that probably contributed to a famous campaign directed by the government's Gender Equality Office, which we had the opportunity to see and enjoy in it two or three months before the election. Because today we know what we are or better at, that is, how many political parties and the heads and heads of the independent lists are truly interested in achieving parity democracy or how much balanced representation of women in political life at local and regional level. The sad fact is that the government's campaign is balanced despite and so much by the attorney-in-law of the non-critical defense of the new Law on Gender Equality, we are not one step closer to achieving parity democracy. To remind the Office for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in early 2009 launched a campaign to promote women's political representation in local elections called "balance" and to increase the share of municipal and city councils and councils in the county parliaments and increase the number of mayors, mayors and mayors. Because according to women in politics, the harsh Croatian reality in numbers looks like this. Until recently, we only had three women headed by the county of 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb, only 5.4% of the towns and municipalities led by women at the place of mayor or mayor. Compared to the local elections held in 2001 in the 2005 local elections, the share of women in those representative bodies at each level increased only by about 1.4%. Women participated on average with 14.5% in county assemblies, 15.7% in city councils, and 8.4% in municipal councils. According to the results we now have from 577 mayoral and mayoral seats, women won all 26 in these local elections, which is a miserable 4.5%. At the end of these local elections, there is one mayor, 6 mayors and 19 mayors. If we look at the breaks SDP has a mayor, 3 mayors and 4 chiefs, HDZ 3 mayors and 12 mayors, and HSS 3 chiefs. I need... that this statistics puts us not only at the beginning of European countries, i.e. in a circle of those countries where political participation of women is more than worrying. Because the Law on Gender Equality, which was voted last summer on which the Ombudsman so commendably writes in Article 15, obliges political parties to respect the principle of gender equality when establishing and proposing a list of candidates, i.e. candidates for the selection of members and members of the representative bodies of the units of local regional and regional self-government, and to take care of the balanced representation of women and men on election lists, in order to achieve representation of at least 40% of the members, i.e. members of the sub-represented sex, but in the campaign, it was not said anywhere that this obligation was moved only on the third election cycle. So I ask the question, then, what was this campaign? Let's balance ourselves with the amount of taxpayers' money being spent on. We all know here that significantly better results than the implementation of this campaign could have been achieved by different provisions less than a year ago of the adopted Law on Gender Equality. Instead of waiting for the third election cycle in the law, we could have the obligation to respect 40% of the sub-represented sex in the first next election, or local elections that have recently passed. And instead of punishing the ridiculously low fines of those parties and independent lists who will not respect that provision of the law during the third election cycle, we could follow a French example that prescribes a rejection, i.e. a failure to accept those lists that do not respect the 40% sub-represented sex quota. The government proposed a law like this that was passed last summer. She wanted 40% of the women on the list in 12 years, so the question is, why is that masquerade with the singing male choir in which men sing women's roles? I am afraid, therefore, that the campaign is balanced was nothing more than showing the washed quasi-aware face of a hard patriarchal government and that liberal domestic voters and voters, as well as always the awake political hawks and girls from the European Union. To conclude, as long as there will be no real political will to change the patriarchal political landscape of Croatia, women will continue to act more than half of the population but will continue to be a sub-represented sex in almost all areas of political and thus social and economic life and action. That is precisely why a lawyer for gender equality should be aware and do everything but everything in its power to change the reality in that direction. Otherwise, we will continue to receive almost identical reports year by year from the Advocate General for Gender Equality from which we will consternately conclude that Croatia is by no means a country of parity democracy or that the country in which women are discriminated in the field of labour, employment, family, education, media, health and politics, and it does not have to be so. But for that, it is necessary for the Ombudsman to make dramatic steps and to stand firmer toward the political elites. For centuries, namely, the Croatian people have known that fish die from the head rather than tails trying to convince us all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33223	Thank you. One correction to an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33224	Mrs. Holly, it's an incorrect assumption that most of what you were saying today is referring to the attorney general's report. It's last year's report and the election was this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33225	Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33226	Dear colleague Holly spoke about women's representation and I absolutely agree and support 40% of women's representation in all executive units. However, all of us must keep an eye on our ranks. So, too, colleague Holly should take care of the SDP as we do in Sibenik, where we have four women, three mayors and one chief in the county. However, when we talk about and we all advocate gender equality, the positioning of women is full of our mouths here, however, as it is possible for the SDP to put in Sibenik the president of the city committee of a man who abuses his own director and is also a candidate for the mayor of Sibenik. I think that when we talk about women's equality and abuse, we need to settle our ranks first, and then we need to keep our mouths full of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33227	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33228	Thank you very much. I come from Vukovar-Srijem County, which has always been known for the fact that women were, for example, less represented. This time, and in the following debate, I must say that we have taken seriously throughout the county the 2003 Council of Europe recommendations and this recommendation on 40% and Ms. Advocate General knows that in Vukovar-Srijem, a recent analysis, a gender analysis of the lists of candidates for Vukovar-Srijem County. I'll be free to say a few details. Why? Because I repeat, we're out there in some kind of popular opinion a patriarchal environment where women aren't always in positions where they're supposed to be. As for our county, for example, compared to 2005, we now had 28% of women on average on all lists for Vukovar-Srijem County, which is more than 5.5% compared to 2005. Personally, I was the holder of a list for the county assembly that had 42% of women and by joining the county assembly that percentage might be slightly reduced to 35 but that's a large amount. As far as the cities are concerned, I must point out our city of Ilock, which in these local elections also had 40% of women. The town of Vukovar, which had about 44% of women, was even less than in 2005 when there were 49% of women. I'm talking about candidates for the city council. The town of Vinkovci with 35.4% women, so on average all lists that were registered to the city council. The mayor who also had 45%, there is a colleague Filipovic, not presently. So the only question is whether the political parties they propose want to adopt this. I absolutely accept the suggestion of colleague Holly that the problem is not only in state institutions but also in those who apply these recommendations. It is up to us all, above all, at the Croatian Parliament but on us parliamentary representatives who are the leaders of political parties in the local community to apply this and to introduce women as much as possible into politics. It's what we see in the SDP that there are no such problems with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33229	Answer to Mrs. Mirela Holly's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33230	Dear fellow Heffer, it's very nice to hear that you in Vukovar-Srijem County have achieved I mean relatively parity democracy. I hope that's how it's gonna be in the other environments. Unfortunately, the situation in the SDP is not as it should be. And I'm going to take this opportunity to answer to my colleague Furia Radino, who obviously didn't listen to me very carefully. I said that in the lawyer's report she spoke very highly of the law, and I criticised the provisions of the law, and I was saying that the lawyer should have used her position to amend these unacceptable provisions of the law and that today we might have a different situation after these local elections. I'm sorry, but you obviously didn't listen well enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33231	Ms. Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33232	Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I am personally pleased that on this long journey from emancipation of women to fighting for recognition and anti-discrimination procedures in many countries, parties, movements, that today more and more women and men are here talking about it from various political options. Despite a series of critical reviews that we have heard at the moment, I want to say that I have been dealing with these issues for a long time and should never give up, that this is actually the conclusion after all that we have seen today and heard from the debate and read from all the reports. So we here as I said the supplement is about individual debates, so I'll do it again. It's screening actually very sensitive segments of the functioning of this society. Therefore, the Advocate General for Gender Equality stated primarily in the course of her work six points, upon receipt of the application of all natural and legal persons, that she provides assistance to the natural and legal persons who have filed the complaint, and that she is taking the examination of individual applications until the initiation of the court dispute, which is very important. The Parties shall, with the consent of the Parties, carry out a settlement procedure with the possibility of a non-judicial settlement, collect, analyse statistics on cases of sexual discrimination, carry out independent research on discrimination, publish independent reports, etc. So, one huge job being done. We have a parallel situation I have to say as well as the attorney general for the children. In the number of cases presented by the Ombudsman for gender equality, 937 new cases were reported in 2008, 72 transferred from previous years. So it's a case that binds the family, the children, the community, and so on. Therefore, these 937 cases may concern 5 thousand people. It is interesting in the year-to-year reports to monitor the area of action, structure, complaints and statistics based on discrimination which do not differ too much over the past few years. However, it should be said that the Ombudsman has received and considered a number of complaints relating to labour and employment discrimination, although she believes that the number is far higher, but also the fear of loss, possible loss of employment or deterioration of working conditions is present. So it's about states where women, and there were complaints of men, are not free from fear. I think that one dimension of being free from fear is very important and thus free from fear is simply the forms of discrimination. From the chapter on the National Employment Action Plan 2003-2008 which therefore analyses only 2008 of course, it is also interesting that the number of unemployed women in December was less than 2007. If it's a constant trend and why, it's not quite obvious. It will likely be seen in the report next year, but the proportion of women in registered unemployment in the observed period increased 61.6 to 62.7%. However, the worrying fact is that by age groups as many as 16.5% of unemployed women aged 50-54 are. So for years we've been talking about a group of women, a generation of women who lost their jobs, and mostly during the privatisation process, and thus become a long-term unemployed group and vulnerable population group. Whether society has really given up these generations and what their future is when it comes to pensions should also be considered in one of the following reports of what happens when we talk about pensions and so on. What we must seriously be concerned about is the institution of the contract on time. The institution is used with various variants, but they all influence the terrible burden and uncertainty and certainly if they analyze some medical indicators and certain psychosomatic disorders. But who dares to commit to their health under the pressure of a contract on a given working time and to receive any income from it. So today's crisis time, and it's really worth taking care of, today, it took a lot more than yesterday, and unfortunately it won't bring better solutions in itself. There are already some measures that are far more reflected in women than in men, not only in Croatia, Europe, and Europe is different today, women live in the European Union, in countries of accession to the European Union and in countries that have no chance to be closer to European associations in the future. And in terms of solutions arising from employment, we should also turn to the new Labour Act. It must be the starting and return point of all contracts and employment measures at the end. The attorney general also in this report gives a great emphasis on the area of domestic violence, as this is shown by the facts but it is inadmissible to e.g. That's what he's talking about on page 79, where he's talking about measures. He says this: One of the educational measures of experts is working in the field of protection against domestic violence, establishing common specific content and optimal methodical approach. The second measure is to implement the systematic education of public authorities, the implementation deadline of 2008, a negative response to that measure. Third measure, defining the items in the State budget in order to implement the activities of promoting protection against domestic violence, where the head holder of the Ministry of Finance, is the time limit of implementation in 2008, and the Ministry of Finance has not even provided data on the implementation of this measure. So we're going back again, we're going back in circles again to the responsibility of state institutions. I think it's really high time for violence in society to be talked about more specifically, because as we today and in the screening of the most sensitive segments of society, so the issues of people with disabilities and children, we have established a terrible whirlwind and an increase in violence. I would also refer to women with disabilities in general who are often discriminated on a multiple basis, as women, as women with disabilities and then also by type of education. I want to thank you for the analysis of certain programs and TV content. It is only by analysing the very contents that the largest number of viewers and viewers in consummates indiscriminately point to that gray zone in which stereotypes are created and taken over and retain certain, mostly stereotypes. Maybe I won't be wrong, Madam Attorney, if I say we miss this kind of study of school textbooks with stereotypes and prejudice. It's not just stereotypes, I don't know what a mother is stereotype, prejudice or vice versa, stereotype mother prejudice. So on the Committee on Gender Equality, we have raised this issue to one of the least common denominators, the solidarity of women MPs, and I think that one part of the topics that we are talking about today in the context of the Ombudsman's report is due to this approach. Violence, stereotypes, prejudice. It was also in this home, so all women in politics meet, and young women will meet unless we make a quality step in time. As in the report on children, I also want to look back on the situation of women in rural areas who are heavily neglected and often neglected, as well as on the issue of the situation of Roma women and gender discrimination among minority peoples and ethnic groups. So we have questions about public television, we have questions about school textbooks, we have questions about your report, Mrs. Attorney General, and expectations that we had from the Law on Gender Equality. My colleague Holly gave her opinion on it. We really expected on that small bridge of the common denominator that the ruling majority, that colleagues from the ruling majority would be able to say no when the law was passed for three electoral rounds. That would be what would be common to the benefit of all women, not just the wife of one party. I can say that despite what we can possibly say could have been better in these elections, and as far as my party is concerned, the SDP is the only party that has its 40 per cent intraparty quota, the high standard of '96. A year. It's not easy to maintain, but today's part of our club that counts 32% of women still shows that in this trend of approaching that figure in the last term was 38, in the mandate before 36. So that's a very important question and I still want to point out, since I was talking about violence. It is currently being done, and this may take another year and a half, the Council of Europe's tendency against violence against women in the work as chairman of that committee is being included by our expert expert, who is also engaged around the United Nations and other activities. So we have some kind of message coming from this country and from experts in international organisations and bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33233	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33234	Mr. Vice-President, just that in some ways I would like to strengthen the part that you spoke to your colleagues Feric-Vac about implementing certain measures by the competent institutions, i.e. ministries and those who have received certain tasks through the knowledge of different policies and strategies. In particular, this is about the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence as opposed to 2008 to 2010. You mentioned this part of the methodical approach in improved education programmes for public authorities staff, as well as the implementation of systematic education of public authorities, public institutions, parts of civil society organisations on target issues in the family where the main holder is listed as the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. So I would say, this seems to me to be exactly a school example of how a part of our documents shouldn't be adopted and before that, they haven't really been through the talks and arrangements within the different ones in this case of the ministries. Or central state offices. Is that what's going on? It seems that it is important that we write something down now, that we bring some strategy that we can say that there is a strategy for a certain period, and when someone asks, the lawyer asks because it is part of her business tasks whether those measures have been implemented, then it is found that the measures have not been implemented, then it is established that this holder should not actually be the bearer of a measure, but that someone else is in charge, etc. etc. and so much closer. I'll just mention one more. Where the work is also related to a national strategy, which speaks, says one of the measures is to create conditions for the inclusion of children victims of child violence in children's kindergartens and programmes of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, it is again as the main holder of the established Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and now I do not have time to say from their explanation that they do not understand the measure that was to be implemented at all. And secondly, there is a completely left out local self-government that can do this measure in the good part.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33235	You've got to pick up the tile. Come on, like you're up, we'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33236	Mr. Vice President, the Attorney General has rightly cited the measures that have been taken. But we are still concerned about these measures that have not been implemented. Look, shelters and support for the victim of domestic violence. We all know what that means. The measure is to draw up an overview of all legal and sublegal regulations related to the housing problem of victims of domestic violence. The measure, the main carrier, is the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. The implementation deadline is 2008 and this measure has not been implemented. The Ombudsman asked the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development to implement the measures, and the ministry submitted a request to the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Pontius to Pilate. The ministry then stated in its reply that in the administration of the area... There was no activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why it is important to point out such cases, and to highlight those that have been implemented because we are working on it, that is to say that we get a report that measures have been implemented and that is why we point to those who are not. So here, I'm going to stay on that I should never, ever, ever give up no matter what, all the shifts that go a little below the level we'd like to have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33237	Never say never. Next replica, Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I would like to refer to one part of the presentation of the distinguished representative who is also the president of the SDP Women's Forum. Somehow it seems to me that whenever it comes to any lawyer's report or any law regarding gender equality, it's always about quotas. If those quotas were some guarantee of exclusive success, I'd be really happy because she would find the key to success and guarantees that actually this division, and I often call it a division of lemons and oranges, and in this case this would be an orange. In fact, it wouldn't be orange, but it would even be Mandarin because I'm a young woman, I'm not just a woman. Well, it kind of seems like it's not good advice just as a colleague points out very often in his discussions. I have the right to my own personal position, and as proof of that, I will say that here, and after the second round of local elections, according to the results of the HDZ elections that has no such quota, it happened that we have one current mayor waiting for the second round plus three mayors from the HDZ and three mayors from the SDP ranks. And as for the chief, there's almost a little different and it's more favourable for HDZ. Because here, from our ranks comes 12 commissioners, four are SDP and 3 from HSS. Maybe it's just some coincidence, but if I had maybe a little more time for this replica, then I'd even count the candidates who were born for the mayor, for the mayor, for the commissioners of both parties, and I'd compare that data, but maybe for my own discussion in a separate sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33239	Replica reply, Ms. Mirjana Feric-Vac.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33240	Look, the question of the current election results is one thing, and the question that you've fundamentally asked is the question of the quota, one quite another question. The question of quotas is not the invention of any party, not a single policy. Today, when you look at a picture of countries where you would always like to compare and whose achievements you would like to strive for or already strive for, these are countries that have long introduced the quota into their legislation, into their political parties, and in this way have brought about a temporary measure that will probably be abolished at the moment when they are reached and when the conditions of parity democracy are achieved, as some countries do. But until then, she's a temporary incentive measure. It's not the Bible, it's not the only solution and it goes far beyond that. Today's system that we had on the run for the first time in the choice of direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors and commissioners is something else. And this is known from research into the political system and the election system, that this and such system is primarily unfavourable for women. There are different interpretations. No one forced you to accept quotas. It's the same thing as we've accepted them and so that we can temporarily regulate something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33241	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33242	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Attorney General, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin my debate on this item of the agenda by expressing my belief that economic equality is gender equality, in fact an assumption of all other aspects of gender equality, that economic inequality is a choice of all other types of inequality, or all other forms of discrimination all the way to violence as the most drastic form of gender inequality. In the context of this belief, it is very important that the 35th page of this report, which says that 233 000 661 unemployed persons were recorded in the Croatian Employment Service at the end of December 2008, of which there were 146 thousand 497 or 62.7% of unemployed women. Compared to the situation a year earlier, on December 31st 2007, when the proportion of women in the registered jobless struggle was 61.6%, women's unemployment in 2008 apparently increased by 1.1%. But it's actually just the beginning of negative trends. Because in March 2009, the total number of unemployed was increased to 267 thousand 244 so 33 and a half thousand, with women increasing to 162 thousand 196. It's obvious that the recession takes a toll and most of all just through the closure of jobs. Of course, the least concrete activities such as textile, footwear, wood processing industry are the least affected, or to be quite precise activities in which women's workforce is the primary workforce. Logically, in those local and regional environments where there is greater representation in the economic structure of these traditional activities, women's unemployment problems are also more pronounced. For example, in Međimurje County, the situation in northwestern Croatia is the same as the whole. So female unemployment is extremely high. The unemployment rate currently stands at 64% as a result of the closure of a series of production plants, mainly of the textile brand. In doing so, the Croatian government's maternal relationship with these women's activities in terms of financial transport is very intriguing. In contrast, the attitude toward shipbuilding in this context is typically male economic activity, so this relationship is completely different. In the context of the position of women on the labour market, I must also stress our responsibility, therefore, to the Parliament for the adoption of laws containing discriminatory provisions. It is certainly about today’s minimum wage law adopted in the middle of last year, which contains the discriminatory provision mentioned in Article 5. In fact, the level of minimum wage is determined once a year in June of the current year in a way that is linked to the real growth of gross domestic product from the previous year, and this data is published naturally by the State Statistics Office. Thus, the minimum salary for the period from 1 July 2008 was 39% of the average monthly gross earnings made in the previous year for legal persons in the Republic of Croatia, or should I say in the nominal amount was 2 thousand 747 kuna. From 1 June to 31 May 2010, the minimum wage is determined so that the minimum wage share in the average salary is increased by the percentage of the real growth of the gross domestic product in 2008, and it is known to us from the provisional data of the State Statistics Office at 2.4%, which I will stress on the lowest rate of growth of the gross domestic product since 1999. The question is what will happen with the minimum wage in 2010 given the real decline in gross domestic product in 2009 which is already estimated at around 4%. But let us return to the discriminatory provision of Article 5. The minimum wage law that provides for the pre-mentioned working-intense industrial branches, so I repeat textiles, wood processing and leather footwear, where I have also pointed out in a far-reaching number of women's employees. Therefore, it provides for a lower minimum wage, i.e. its gradual harmonisation and equalisation with minimum wage over a four-year transitional period. You didn't say anything about this discriminatory provision in your report to the esteemed attorney. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33243	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33244	Thank you very much, Vice President. Lawyers and fellow MPs. I'm going to try to make my discussion as brief as possible since there's been a lot of talk about discrimination. But I will look back only on that area that is close to me, which is the area of employment and work. And the fact is, there's still a lot of victims here in the working environments that are victims of various discrimination, which is witnessed by the attorney general's 2008 report. That discrimination against a person does not choose a working environment and that is domesticated in all professions, regardless of whether a professor or a work at a university or a work as an unqualified worker, the principle is the same and the rest are all nuances. This also confirms one in a series of examples of the Ombudsman describing the wishes and demands of the head of a department, a higher education institution that forces its assistant to sew a button on his corner to clean his study, pour his alcohol and make sense of the sequence to drive him home because the professor knows when he drinks that he can't drive. There are other normal examples that I don't repeat them here right now. However, the statistically viewed harassment is 29.1%, sexual harassment 19.4%, maternal rights violation 7.8%, and 43.7% remain. As far as possible from the report are disturbed public administration and defence employees. This means that the report shows that women in the state and local service are most upset about more than 50% of the other sectors, which is such a rather interesting thing. But surely one encouraging fact is and no one here mentioned it today and I think it should be mentioned, and it is part of the report where the Ombudsman stated that Croatia is increasingly fitting into the global average by which the gender gap in employment is decreasing because, according to the report and the World Labour Organisation on Global Employment Trends, the position of men on the labour market has deteriorated compared to the position of women. So I don't think we should be here tonight and ignore the importance and power of women through this debate. I don't think that would be correct, given that it's been discussed differently because women are often more powerful than they appear in public. It is known that because of women and started and ended wars, empires fell, etc. I think you're familiar with the recent list of 300 most powerful women in Croatia. Only six of them hold over 500m euros in capital. Also now I don't list you hundreds of the most powerful women in the business world, so in the world of politics, in the world of fashion, etc. So there's also a real woman on this side who's powerful, who's so business-proved and doesn't need to be ignored in this part. However, in the report itself, the Ombudsman set an example of how certain employers exclusively seek female employment. And some people are looking for what we know is illegal, and they can't ask for it publicly, but we know how different it can be and that they only hire a woman. I would totally agree with the Institute of Labour for a certain time, not just for women, but I think it is generally true for both men and women, however, since the Labour Act does not distinguish women and men. Yes, in any case, with this amendment to the Labour Act and the intensity is as you know the social partners to change it because this information that we got here is 82.5% of newly employed women, it's from 2007, but I don't think there's any better situation in 2008 either, they made contracts for a certain time. It's also interesting that no one here mentioned it, and I think it was convenient to read it, that the D.A. didn't receive any complaints about pay inequality compared to the sex of the worker if I noticed correctly. So it's also one then quite already big progress and in that segment that no more differences are made about paying for the same work between men and women, means not by sex. Finally, it is also important to highlight one interesting piece of information. Compared to earlier years, the number of women finishing the Police Academy has increased. Last year, 396 ended, 674 men as you recall in 2004 where only 66 women finished the academy. So there's no more taboo about ending this part. And lastly, I think it would be important to stress that we must further encourage and organise various educational programmes in both employers and employees to avoid any differences through these educations, any conflicts to simply improve this business relationship, the relationship between the employer and the employees, and then we will normally have fewer of these discriminatory differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33245	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33246	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Madam Attorney, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will look back in my debate on the area of violence against women and, of course, the representation of women in politics. Violence against women as an expression of the historically unequal distribution of power between men and women and historical gender inequality is unfortunately present in all phases of society. Women and girls around the world, regardless of their national, racial and religious background, culture, age, and status, are exposed to various forms of physical, sexual, psychological, and economic abuse. The roots of violence against women lie deep in the structure of society and violence is the most common form of human rights violations in Europe. According to the World Health Organization, various studies show that on average between 10 and 50% of women experienced some form of physical violence from partners, that between 12 and 25% of women were subjected to an attempt or to a forced sexual relationship themselves also from their former or current partners and that the prevalence of forced prostitution and trafficking in women is increasing year by year. An incredible figure of as many as 4 million human trafficking victims per year is the data on the extent of exploitation of women and children, which points to a necessary struggle to prevent women from trafficking. Violence is manifested in several basic ways physically, sexually, psychologically, economically, structurally, and spiritually violently. Structural violence involves invisible and all present obstacles to the exercise of fundamental rights. These obstacles are reproduced in the very social tissue, or in the unequal distribution of power that produces inequality between women and men and makes it legitimate. Violence against women in Croatia still has the effect of glaciers. Only a small number of brave women speak, oppose, report a bully, while most of the women who are victims of violence, especially domestic violence in which a woman is subjected to various forms of continuous abuse remain unreported. Without official statistics on violence committed against women, serious research and the contribution of media to report the problem systematically, covering its various aspects, not only by bringing up individual cases in the black chronicle, violence will continue to be a negligible and underrated problem with an incomprehensible high level of acceptance and tolerance. Now I'd like to say something about the representation of women in politics, although a lot has already been said. Three key reasons are to increase the political participation of women. It is primarily a democratic right, the use of resources and an interesting representation. Women make up half of the total population and have the right to be represented in representative, executive and judicial bodies of their own countries. By excluding women from democratic political processes, we exclude valuable values that these women possess: knowledge, skills and abilities. Finally, it is also assumed that women have some special interests and, by excluding women from the decision-making process, these interests are not sufficiently represented in making political decisions. Article 15 The law on gender equality of the Republic of Croatia has been governed by an area relating to political parties, which should balance the position of women and men both in political parties' bodies and in the lists of candidates for elections in the Croatian Parliament and bodies of units of local and regional self-government. National policy to promote gender equality also defines guidelines for achieving a balanced representation of men and women in representative and executive bodies at all levels. Based on an analysis of the electoral lists, and then on the results of the elections, we can conclude that the parties did not recognise the need to establish gender equality in politics. Furthermore, I must say, whether I agree with quotas or not, it is my opinion that they are necessary for reasons, even parties that have birth quotas in their statutes, did not run for 40% of women. Some parties have proposed electoral lists without any candidate. The Law on Gender Equality requires parties to take care of the balanced representation of women and men on election lists, but since there are no sanctions for non-compliance with the provisions of the party have simply ignored it with the most frequent justification that there are not enough women involved in the work of political parties and that they were therefore not able to run. However, since the Law on Gender Equality also states that political parties should develop an action plan to balance women and men's representation in decision-making processes, and so far no party has drawn up such a plan, we can conclude that yet the primary problem in the political parties themselves is not interested in the shifts in the area. The model of representative democracy that Croatia is to achieve by its constitutional arrangement cannot be achieved if almost half of the society is excluded from the democratic processes. It is therefore necessary to make additional efforts to achieve gender equality in decision-making processes both with adequate legislation and with the sensitisation of political parties for the issue of gender equality and by empowering women themselves to exercise their right to participate in political decision-making processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33247	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33248	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. This morning when we talked about violence and mentioned children in some way we touched on the indirect and this topic. However we start to end up still on violence either physically or economically, any other kind, and it seems to me that when the time has come to look the truth into the eyes, let's say what kind of society we are. We are not a normal thing, or we are not alone and Croatia is not a specific person, but we really have to ask ourselves what to expect from a society that is essentially educated, which still slave to heavy and nascent stereotypes, which still has a male cult instead of a husband in a society where some people accept the same as sometimes violence as a "pedagogical measure", so sometimes violence against women is accepted as some right of a male person in a marriage or in a relationship or in general I think that all of these things that we have to admit to ourselves that we are really such a society, because we will never be able to change that unless we come to some awareness of ourselves. On the other hand, we are deeply talking about the problem of emancipation. We as a society, as a whole, as a community of people will never be able to emancipate unless women are emancipated, neither we as a family, nor men can emancipate until women are emancipated. Unfortunately, even in the daily so-called "daily." Someone mentioned information funds in the colloquial speech was you in your report, but also here some of the MPs. The means of information often unwittingly, which is even more difficult because we're talking about subconscious, the most difficult violence is violence you don't notice, which you get used to. A habit is the hardest thing to do when it carries discrimination, when it becomes "normal." Unfortunately, we are on our way to achieving such a bad condition, if I may say some contradiction seemingly. Namely, it is not rare that in the papers some serious accidents, traffic accidents, etc. You can read that five people died, three women and two children. In this kind of inscription, women are previously excluded from the concept of man, and I mean the irresponsibility of those who write in such a way is great, and unfortunately the situation is tragic if we don't notice it and react to it. It may seem harmless and so decorative, but it's not convincing, at least I think it reflects the essence. Unfortunately, women also get used to saying about their husband, my man and I, he's a man. She excludes herself in some way from that idea. So, even for those who are victims of such a condition and relationships it becomes normal to be victims and sometimes, it happened to me once in Zagreb in a tram when I got up an elderly person to grab my shoulder and say sit down, you're a man. I was a lot younger than her, and I'm still alone. I am something older than I was then, but the difference is the same in years. The normal thing not to be surprised then is that there are male and female occupations in quotes, which we get used to in a situation like in marriages we have those terrible situations when someone doesn't come, to welcome their wife because she has a female child, and she's not a man, etc. It's our reality. It's our reality that we're largely responsible for because the laws of this country don't speak that way, and it's our fault when we pass laws that we don't ensure are fulfilled. So if there's a need for repression, I know that the repression in the end line is nothing, it doesn't have to mean that you're going to try to convince someone, but it's really puzzling when you read that for rape someone gets less years than for some kind of or three petty thefts and so on. This brings you to one question that says what institutions should guarantee that the laws that are killed may be good, why they are not translated. And just to end it, social misery often leads to this hell where someone is targeted, a guilty target, that the dissatisfaction of the one who got into that misery was sought out on that person. They're often powerless people, they're weaker people, they're the kind of people that we're used to being used to saying that they have to get used to that kind of role. I don't think everyone, there's any difference between parties, that we all have to do, is one principle to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33249	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33250	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll talk briefly, primarily from the point of view of education. First of all, it should be said that gender equality in all segments of society, so all activities and all sectors are one of, or part of, the basis for the progress and development of the Republic of Croatia, an essential part of that foundation. The report, in itself, is technically done, some parts even remind more of scientific research, and what is important are some parts being repeated. Now when I say it repeats itself, it's about what's popularly called copy paste, the problems we've had before and which are still in the report because they indicate that some measures haven't been implemented yet, and they should have been. And through such examples, this report shows that we are still far from true equality, especially in the education sector. In this sector, we must start a real fight in order to say gender equality, and in this particular sector, so education we still have major problems or extreme inertness. Some of the reports that are repeated year by year are right in that section because since 2006 some things have not been removed from the dead spot. When we talk about education, this report begins with quoting the law, it brings the law items that when you read the question to yourself, by God dear, who will do so when the current set of the ministry is very weak on this matter. The provisions of the law are based on national policy, on the provision of measures, it is clearly said that the deadline for implementing the 2008 measures, for those mentioned, are the responsibility of the Ministry of Science, the Agency for Professional Education and then very politely state the relevant measures which say that professional education will be harmonised with the results of the analysis of labour market needs and systematically encourage balanced gender representation in high school enrolment, and another measure will develop a specific gender-sensitive programme of professional orientation of pupils and pupils and third parties, a database will be established with existing colleges of female studies and gender studies at higher universities. It's the page behind the report that makes the assessment. So it is said that the first measure was not fully implemented because market analysis was not made. My colleagues and colleagues, almost no analysis of the needs of the labour market has been made. Such an analysis is closely related to both vocational education and higher education and lifelong learning with measurement and definition of learning outcomes that have not been made, and when the state finally decided to move into this, the budget rebalances these coins have disappeared and this has not been done. So if that analysis isn't done, for all education it won't be for this segment either. You say further that the second measure has not been implemented, and neither has the third. There will be no databases, the Republic of Croatia has not yet made general information packages of colleges, let alone doing such a female study, so we can freely say that we will wait until after 2010 for such a thing to be done. Otherwise, catalogues of colleges related to one part of women's studies for the future, and learning outcomes are part of the international commitment that the Republic of Croatia made 5 years ago, 5 years ago we still haven't carried out in action. As for pre-graduate, graduate and postgraduate studies and scientific research in the field of gender studies, you are a witness to Mrs. Attorney General what has now happened in this area. Unfortunately, I personally believe that this is the scientific branch of the future, and de facto it is being stopped by the National Council for Science which seems to be stuck in the 19th century still. But that's a big problem, we said in the Croatian Parliament that the National Science Council has big problems in its work. I think it's going to be waiting for that story to change for a while. The problem of scientific education that is also mentioned here was also discussed in the Assembly and your report is speaking in favour of what we have been saying in the SDP for years, it is that health sexual education is poor and insufficient, and it is not easy to determine the results of such training in these answers, says or hides its failure behind the sentence that education is done interdisciplinaryly and outside of the classroom. Furthermore, in the education system, there is still a major problem in the environment and textbooks that are slow to at least the issue of sexual equality disappears again from the media, and this should also be discussed in politics, in the media in all segments of society. I'm usually a professor. And today in historical textbooks, we have that our textbooks are lagging behind in correcting incorrect data and false allegations when men are in play while women are lagging behind. So when historians discover some things about a certain male person very quickly, they re-read it in their textbooks, and then those virtues of it are further emphasized. While we still, unfortunately, have examples that some of the truly honest, capable and well-read women who have been mesmerized and art and science, are still listed in the textbooks as bloodstained... women often and easy morale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, such things are too slow in our textbooks to correct. The other problem is with our bookie, an analysis of the same bookies. Our students, which should be written about, need to be given a better context when they learn something from Croatian literature. Our realism, our modern one gave beautiful novels, but in them most often if you notice male characters describe in detail in many of them, women are often described in plastic and very simple, unless, of course, it is a friend of the night, then it is described very detailedly and it and its habits. With a bookie like that, I'm not saying you shouldn't read the bookies. The book needs to be read, but our teachers must know how to give students the context of the time in which the book was written and about the author itself. As far as high school is concerned, here's the last sentence. It's a really embarrassing little thing to do here. We cannot fully question gender equality in higher education revolve around a conference that a pro-po goes from year to year and generates constantly larger and larger piles of paper that do not serve anything, and are often a copy of the already existing reports that are being carried out in the European Union. I don't know if you know but recently it's republished a document... where one of the main co-authors was a Croatian citizen and no one in this country asked her about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report is fully funded by the European Commission and presented to all education ministers and also to our minister of education. And instead, we still have total silence. The examples you gave say that in the 21st century in Zagreb there are colleges that do sexual discrimination on enrolment quotas, and that is the ultimate shame. And that's what happens under the nose of the ministry that needs to be taken care of. So I'm asking you how is that possible? That should actually be asked by the Prime Minister. In the end, I will remind you that gender equality is also one of the foundations for a healthy society of knowledge, and looking at these examples we are also still far away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33251	Thank you. And a five-minute debate. The SDP club is Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Attorney General. So, another final few sentences. First of all, we want to repeat again and stress that as a SDP club, we are supporting the prosecutor's report for the past 2008. What you might end up saying was seen from today’s debates. Somehow, it seems to us that perhaps, or not, the time has come for us to do some of the steps more vigorously in Croatia and that some of the measures and tasks of those who have drawn this out for themselves are also asking them to do it more vigorously than they have ever done before. What I particularly want to point out on behalf of the club, perhaps we didn't speak so much about it at the very beginning, but you attorneys also mentioned their problems in your opening work, and I am saying this because last year this new Law on Gender Equality was adopted and local elections are now being held, and this is the role and importance of the Coordinator for Gender Equality at local levels, i.e. in the offices of the state administration at local levels, and the fact that now, after these local elections, new committees for gender equality will be established at the level of the county. And on behalf of the SDP club, I hope, in a way, that I also call on all other local individuals, so cities and municipalities, that these local committees or committees are also established by local units. A colleague in the back of a kimma, i.e. he takes the lead that he won't, but I would very much like that local committee to be established in your town. Why? Because all of what we're saying here today, all of what the D.A. stated in her report is practically a dead letter on paper, and a good part of it can't be accomplished without local communities, and it's in the end line and it's being achieved in local communities. So, we stress the role of the coordinator and the local committees, and we call in some way that these new local committees, which will be formed from the very beginning, will be in some kind of education programme, so to speak, which will also go from the level of the government's office but we also believe with the help of the attorney's office and in the extreme line of colleagues and colleagues sitting in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33253	Thank you. And final review, gender equality attorney, Mrs. Gordana Lukač-Koritnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33254	Thank you very much. Of course it's time to thank you for the debate. I'm doing it. It's just that I'll think about it more carefully later. For now, I'd just like to answer some things. And that I'm sorry, but that's how I decided that the report would be without some analysis of its scope, which may have proved to be wrong now. As far as the election is concerned, we're following them this year, and I'm pretty sure there's no institution that's going to have any more details on how they went, looking from their own perspective. We already have some analysis on our website. Since Mr. Kunst said that I listed where there are the most injuries, that these are actually public services I have to sort of interpret, it was obviously necessary. We gave that information based on complaints we received. But exactly the fact that there are most of these complaints actually supports the other one of my views, which is that in a private sector where more employees are afraid for a certain time, there are fewer complaints, which doesn't necessarily mean that there are more violations in public services. And about the quotas and the Law on Gender Equality not entering, there is no Mrs. MP Holly, I would like to say that the countries that have made the most, which have the largest political participation of women have no quotas or ever had them because they have decided and implemented political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33255	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. It should now be on the agenda as stated in the consolidated agenda Report on the work of the 2008 Ombudsman. The Attorney General is on his way to recovery after the operation, so I'm not going to make it clear, so he's also asked to postpone the debate on his report for the period behind there on June 17th, and then we'll extend the debate on it. And tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we'll have a debate on item 5. Report on the implementation of the National Road Transport Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia 2008 and the Annual Report on the work of the Croatian Post Agency, electronic communications for 2008. After that debate around 13 hours, they would probably vote on the debated agenda points, and then the continuation of session 17 with that set of European laws that we included in the agenda the other day. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-04-0.u33256	We are moving on to the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality, the promoter is the lawyer for gender equality. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality is accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The lawyer's report on gender equality work was accepted by the majority of votes, 102 votes for and 1 abstention. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The competent authorities of the state administration are in charge of taking appropriate measures in the course of their work to remove irregularities listed in the report." I am voting on the committee's proposal. Let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal by the Constitutional Committee was adopted by a majority of votes, 93 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the council, we will proceed with the session. We have a plan today to finish these two agenda points then we'd have a vote, that's about half past one. I ask the clubs to notify their members in time. Let us therefore move to: - Report on the implementation of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 Carrier: Government of the Republic of Croatia; the Government submitted this report on the basis of Article 111. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament since 2 June 2008. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
