ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42106	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. We will begin with the 15th session of the Croatian Assembly. So I'm opening the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament, all of you, as I said, welcome again. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to Mrs Jadranka Kosor, Vice-President, Vice-President and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the minutes of the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record maybe? If not, we have adopted the minutes of the 14th session of the Parliament in the proposed text. We're moving on to the session's agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I included nine new points, under the regular number of 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 14, 16, 18th, 19th and 26th, which are set out in the final draft agenda you received today. These are the proposals for a trust Mr. Darka Milinović, Dr. I.D., Minister of Health and Social Care, and for the behaviour of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, that is, point 1. Proposal to show confidence to Ivan Shuker, Minister of Finance, and to act as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, point 2. Proposal to show confidence, Mr.sc. The Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship shall be responsible for the conduct of his duties as Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, point 3. Proposal for a Law confirming an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 472, point 5. Final proposal of the Electronic Media Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 403, point 14. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, with the final proposal of the law, also emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 473, point 16. The final proposal of the Law amending the Act on "The Ivan Filipović Award", which is second reading, P.Z. No. 409, point 18. Proposal for a Law on textbooks for elementary and high school, first reading, P.Z. No. 474, point 19. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on renting apartments, with a final proposal for a law, is an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 471, point 26. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. These are the acts set out in the final draft agenda under points 5, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 16, 20, 21 and 26. These are the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with a final proposal for law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 472, point 5, like I said. Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, with a final bill, emergency procedure, P.Z. 462, point 6. Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of double taxation on income, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 464, point 8. Proposal for a Law confirming a financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning part of a multi-user programme for nuclear safety and radiation protection under the 2008 pre-accession assistance instrument (decentralised management) with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 465, point 9. Proposal for a Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products, with a final proposal for a law, also an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 467, point 12. Proposal for a Agriculture Act, with final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 469, point 13. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, with the final proposal of the law, also emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 473, point 16. The proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Police Cooperation, with the final proposal for a law, is an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 468, point 20. Proposal for a Act confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 466, point 21. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on renting apartments, with final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 471, point 26. I would like to stress that the proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural product market, with the final proposal for a law proposed as an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 467, point 12 and Proposal for a Agricultural Act, with a final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. They shall comply with the provisions of the European Union and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of these laws. So, if there's any, we could, please, switch on so we can control if we have a quorum. Are we all on board, please? It is determined that 86 MPs are present. But please. Do we? We don't. Apparently, many of us don't have keys to identify us. So I think we can figure out how many 86 are counted? No, I don't. 88 MPs are present. We've got a quorum, and please raise your hands if one piece doesn't have a key. To vote this afternoon on the government, I ask you to bring the keys. So, any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other laws other than these two that we have established. Is there? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42107	Mr. President, the SDP club opposes inclusion on the agenda of the item under regular number 19. Proposal for a Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools for a simple reason that the provision of Article 20(2) of the Law does not respect this proposal. The law on the right to access information which determines that public authorities whose competence is to draw up draft draft laws are to publish drafts of these acts, i.e. to allow the authorities to make themselves known in a timely manner. In preparing this bill, not only did it not respect this procedure to the public, but it did not fully respect the government's procedures. And in fact none of the interested parties, and these are business entities but also parents, or teachers, until the government established the draft law, had no chance of seeing it at all. We therefore think that it is necessary to put some time in order for the public to get acquainted with this bill, before including the agenda of the Croatian Parliament session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42108	Madam MPs, we're deciding the urgency of the procedures of these laws we've read here. Two laws are European. We don't decide, we decide about these others. I ask if there are objections to an emergency procedure in the adoption of the other laws proposed. Please, if we're not there, we're going to vote. Therefore, does this have any objection from the representatives to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, P.Z. 472 points 5? Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42109	Mr. President. I do not know why this proposal for a Law confirming the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been put into an emergency procedure with the Final Proposal of the Law. We are witnessing that on the other side, therefore on the Slovenian side it is not an emergency procedure. And I don't know why the Republic of Croatia is so hasty and so urgently putting this bill into an emergency procedure, and we know that there are still debates and recommendations within the public among intellectuals and all those who are interested in this issue, and that is the whole of the Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Well, that's not why I'm putting this in an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42110	Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42111	Well, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister. So I think you should at least cross... The Constitutional Court in Slovenia should wait for their advisory referendum. Only after that do I think that the Croatian Parliament should decide whether or not to accept this arbitration agreement. On the other hand, by my personal court, an absolutely false dilemma that without this agreement Croatia will not enter the European Union. It is also a false dilemma that without this agreement we can compromise the economic relations between Croatia and Slovenia, when we know that the economic exchange between Zagreb and Ljubljana has increased even by $1 billion over the past 4 years. It is equally a false dilemma that we will compromise some tourist or similar arrangements when we see that every year more and more of our friends from Slovenia come to the Croatian Adriatic, and our citizens, depending on their material possibilities, go through their Alps. So it's a brief conclusion. Let us wait for an advisory referendum in Slovenia and then decide whether to accept or reject the arbitration agreement afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42112	Any other objections to the inclusion of this agenda item by emergency procedure? I would like to put the motion to put this law under emergency procedure with the opposition of Mr Bora Grubisic and Mr Damir Kajin. Please, who's to be included in the emergency procedure, raise your hand. Please count the votes. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that the proposal has been accepted by most votes. 80 votes for, 4 against and one abstention. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, P.Z. Number 462, point 6.? If not, who is to apply the emergency procedure of passing this law? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 85 votes, this proposal is included in the emergency procedure. Third, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of Double Taxation and Tax Prevention of Income, P.Z. Number 464, point 8.? There isn't. I am voting on a proposal to be classified as an emergency procedure for this bill. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? And this proposal was accepted unanimously by 85 votes. Fourthly, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning part of a multi-user programme for nuclear safety and radiation protection under the pre-accession aid instruments for 2008 (decentralised management), P.Z. No. 465, point 9.? There isn't. Who is it for this proposal to be classified as an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposal was also adopted unanimously with 85 votes. Fifthly, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on terms and conditions for the acquisition of the age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, P.Z. No. 473, point 16.? There isn't. Who is it for this proposal to be classified as an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? And this proposal was accepted unanimously by 85 votes. Sixthly, any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Police Cooperation, P.Z. No. 468, paragraph 20? There isn't. Who is it for this proposal to be classified as an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 85 votes, this proposal has been accepted. Seven, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, P.Z. No. 466, point 21.? There isn't. Who is it for this proposal to be classified as an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. And this proposal to be classified as an emergency procedure was accepted unanimously by 85 votes. Eight, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on renting apartments, P.Z. No. 471, point 26. There isn't. Who's to suggest that this be classified as an emergency procedure and this law? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. Thank you. And this proposal was adopted unanimously with 86 votes. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. Ms. Marija Lugaric made an observation at point 19th, this proposal goes to first reading, so I don't think there's any reason to open it up now as a problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42113	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I think there is a reason to discuss this, given that the whole procedure for establishing the proposal was contrary to the law laid down by this Croatian Parliament. And I don't think that we can just easily close our eyes to the disrespect of the law that we've just passed. So I ask that first the government be shown about this objection and then that we decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42114	I said there were no written remarks. This is a new proposal and is not written but presented at the session and the Rules of Procedure provide for written remarks to those points of the agenda which are addressed to MPs before the meeting. Does the Government have any opinion on point 19 that it is not included in the agenda of the draft law on textbooks based on high school, first reading, P.Z. No. 474?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42115	Mr. President, the government insists on putting it on the agenda. First of all, the law is proposed in two readings, not in an emergency procedure, there will be enough time to discuss all the interested public and I think that in Croatia no one, especially in the Croatian Parliament, should be against finally reaching the goal that we have in common that each textbook is worth at least four years, so that textbooks are cheaper, more efficient. Therefore, Mr. President, please remain on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42116	Thank you. Since this is subsequently included in the agenda, then we will vote on this item of the agenda with the remark of Ms. Marija Lugarić. So the proposal is to take point 19. P.Z. No. 474 put into the agenda. Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. The result? This point number 19, P.Z. No. 474 The proposal for a law on textbooks for basics and high school stays on the agenda because it was 78 against 7. Thank you. The acts referred to in paragraphs 5, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 16, 20, 21 and 26 have been declared on the occasion of a decision on urgency and are included in the agenda. This objection was rejected in respect of point 19. I suggest if you agree that we do not read the full agenda, that we remain permanently in the tradition of not reading needlessly, but let me announce that the established agenda is as I suggested it with the final draft agenda accepted with this vote that we had. Adding to the agenda we propose: Proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012. Proposals for financial plans for non-profit users for 2010 with projections for 2011 and 2012 (a) Croatian Waters (a) Croatian Roads (a) State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation Agency (a) Croatian Privatisation Fund (a) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund Proposal for the State Budget and financial plans for the 2010 and 2012 off-countary users and projections (consolidated). Secondly, the Final Proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010, second reading, P.Z. Number 475. Third, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 477. Fourth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 478. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the exercise of children's rights, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 476. Sixth, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the military operation of the European Union in order to contribute to the deterrence, prevention and prevention of acts of piracy and armed robbery along the coast of Somalia (operation Atalanta), with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 479. 7th, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Legal Position of Missions and Representatives of third countries in the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 480. Eighth, Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF) from 1 April 2008 to 30 September 2009. Ninth, Proposal for a "National Consumer Protection Programme 2009" - 2012." This is what you got on the benches and I still suggest: 10th, Proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio-Television, i.e. Mr. Drinker's place. Any objections to urgency or agenda? First of all, we show ourselves in the proposal that certain laws are passed according to an emergency procedure. Any objections? If not, I would like to stress that points 3 and 4 of the proposed amendments to the agenda are in line with the European Union rules, so we do not vote on the application of the emergency procedure of this law. This is the proposal for a law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Credit Institutions Act. So P.Z. Number 477 and number 478. We move to a vote on the urgency of the procedure on the remaining laws. There have been any of the representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of European Convention on the exercise of children's rights, P.Z. Number 476, point 5? Let's get involved, if we have the keys, if we don't, then we will. If he doesn't, then we'll raise our hands. Please, who is for emergency procedure 476, paragraph 5? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Unanimity. Who is in favour of the urgent procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the military operation of the European Union in order to contribute to the deterrence, prevention and prevention of acts of piracy and armed robbery along the coast of Somalia (operation Atalanta), with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 479, point 6.? There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Unanimity. Who is the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Legal Position of Missions and Representatives of third countries in the organization of the North Atlantic Treaty, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 480, point 7.? There isn't. Who is the emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? There is. One against. The abstentions? There isn't. Let's see 80 for and one against. This emergency procedure has been adopted. Any of the MPs and representatives have objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 15th session. These are points under regular numbers 1, 2, 8, 9 and 10? This 10th is what I later suggested? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42120	We have another initiative from the SDP club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, to add to points 7, 8, and 9, points 27 and 31, given that these are similar or equal topics to unite all five points. Does anyone mind? There isn't. I'm sorry, dear representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42121	Mr. Vice President, we were told we should have clearly prepared the club's position then, etc. We are not clear under these points, I am sorry, otherwise there is a logic to discuss the report first, and then to discuss clearly the amendment of the law on the basis of that report. However, here I must really say that it is illogical that now...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42122	We will not vote on it today, but only to discuss it and only to discuss it. No, I think that's clear. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42123	Mr. Vice President, therefore, the initiative was originally a SDP club for point 27, and the initiative of the chairman of the Defence Committee which I know and knows Mr. Secretary to be 31. The club hasn't taken a stand on 31st, and 27th, I don't think there's any reason not to add.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42124	You're staying with it, are you opposed to that unification?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42125	Mr. Vice President, I can accept that this is how we continue to work, but it's not usual for the club not to announce that we don't agree on attitudes, but there's still a need when speaking in front of the club to take a common position. I can only speak for myself today and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42126	I ask you to say we haven't agreed on these points on 7th, 8th and 9th, but are you staying, opposed to that union because it depends whether we accept it or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42127	Yes, I object.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42128	You object. And then we're left with these 3's and we're going with this 3, and that's point 7, 8, and 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42129	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by asking questions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or to a single member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The current morning is held at the beginning of each session, before crossing to the 1st point of the agenda. First of all, he's going to ask Mr. Denesh Shaw a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42130	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Vice President and members of the government. I refer to the parliamentary question of the Minister, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Legal regulations oblige local self-government to conduct public procurement for the supply of electricity. For the time being, it is possible to conclude a contract only with HEP supply d.o.o. from Zagreb. The cost of spent kilowatt hours of electricity is indeed somewhat lower, after public procurement, however, when the total consumption is valued by the amount of the account that is set out by HEP operator, the distribution system in particular in our area, is d.o.o. Electroslavonia Osijek. She's charging the so-called. It's a network. In total, more is paid than before public procurement. I must also point out that we have been participating in the financing of the construction of the network lately... Management in relation to somewhere up to one-third. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the public procurement process is the cost. I'm asking what it's getting at, when so far it's the only supplier? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42131	Mrs Tamara Obradović Mazal will respond. Here you go. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42132	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Thank you for your question. Indeed, after 2006, since we have signed an energy community contract related to pre-accession negotiations, Croatia must liberalise the electricity market for all non-domestic customers. Therefore, it is the privileged customers who have the opportunity and the obligation to choose, in the case of bonds, local self-government units into that category, by virtue of the Public Procurement Act, who will distribute or supply them with electricity. I'd like to point out that's also true of gas. In this respect, HEP supply is one of the players, i.e. one of the companies that currently appears on the electricity market as a potential bidder. HEP supply of its price is based on the tariff, on the tariff for privileged customers which determines HERA and the user, i.e. who conducted the procedure and who chose HEP supply as supplier, will receive two invoices. One transmission and distribution account and the other for renewable energy charges, which includes, of course, other infrastructure costs. The price increase in the tariff, on the tariff guaranteed or established by HERA, is in the transitional period between the two contracts, means after the end of the contract until the new one is concluded with the same supplier or new supplier, where the price may be higher than the rate prescribed. But I note that the amount of the increased price may, by law, last only 30 days until the new procedure and the new contract. I thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42133	... Danesh Shaw. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42134	I'm happy with the answer, but of course not with the payment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42135	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir will ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42136	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. Mr. Minister, a year ago, we passed the Agricultural Land Act, the content of which is the establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency. The agency should be involved in the rounding of agricultural land and better management than it is today. We know otherwise that agricultural land is a cancer of early Croatian agriculture, because today we have about a million hectares of farmland, not processed agricultural areas, on which the chicare grows instead of food production. As a result, I am interested in ministers, and for the reason that as of 1.1.2010, municipalities and cities will lose their ability to dispose of agricultural land. What happens if we don't form the Agricultural Land Agency? Is there going to be anarchy on the ground and the land will be divided according to the model of the pit? So here I am interested in the ministers that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken during this year in order to truly be 1.1.2010, and to the satisfaction of our farmers to receive the Agricultural Land Agency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42137	Thank you. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42138	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable Gentlemen Representatives. I agree, the Agricultural Land Agency is something that was very important and necessary in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the Agricultural Land Agency, I would like to stress that it is not only in the function of resolving state agricultural land, but that its function should be very important. And at the circumnavigation as you yourself said, and private agricultural land because one of the major problems of Croatian agriculture is the delicacy of possessions, the delicacy of cadastrian particles, the small areas on which unfortunately it is difficult to use, I would say the best and most qualitative mechanism that our farmers largely already thank God and possess. Of course, such a form of agricultural land management also reduces the competitiveness of our agricultural production. For these reasons, according to the Law on Agricultural Land, the establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency was also envisaged, and during 2009, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the basis of the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on Institutes was established by the Agency. In the summer, the administrative council was appointed, in October 2009, the agency director was appointed and the agency's statute was drawn up. I believe that all of this, I'd say, procedure and hodogram would have gone with its own dynamics if unfortunately we hadn't fallen into the period of this, I'd say, crisis, recession and the need to cut budgets. For these reasons, you also know that the government's decision to set up new institutions, institutions, will practically go into the establishment of only and exclusively those institutions that are directly related to the European Union's negotiating process. For these reasons, the dynamics surrounding the establishment of the agency are somewhat slowed down. And unfortunately, we will not be able to fully form the Agricultural Land Agency, so that it can take over those powers that have been provided for under the law since 01.01.2010. So it means that we will have to change the Law on Agricultural Land, that we will have to keep the existing way of management of agricultural land, and I must also say that in amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, we must go also for the reason that this law is in the Constitutional Court and there are certain provisions in this law, which are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and we think that it is better to go to amendments and amendments and, I would say, and the Law on Agricultural Land, rather than wait for the Constitutional Court to bring down that law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42139	Thank you. Mrs. Mariana Petyr, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42140	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is the Minister I ask you to take up the Agricultural Land Act as the Croatian Parliament brought it and started implementing it on the ground including the Agency, because we in the 2009 budget provided funds for the establishment of the Agency, which means that in 2010, if the Agency starts to work, it will be able to only finance itself. And the Agency is important because if we do not have proper management of agricultural land our agricultural producers will not be able to deal with even agricultural production that will be profitable. I also want to say that we also have trained people who are the core of the Agricultural Land Agency because through the agreement of the Swedish Government and the Ministry of Agriculture in 9 Croatian counties, people who specialize in this area have been working for 2 years and the Agency should have taken them over. These are the ones they've been hearing from these days. They're gonna break the contracts. I don't think that's good, and I'm asking you, Minister, that you personally take it upon yourselves to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42141	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42142	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I have a question for Minister Bianca Matkovic. Mrs. Matkovic, I personally don't know what you're doing just as a minister without a portfolio, but maybe you can answer my next question. Namely, in the Croatian highways, several people who are certainly familiar to you are employed by the press without competition. It is about Željko Krapjan, for whom the citizens spend 25 thousand kuna a month, Stjepan Klaric with a gross salary of 27 thousand kuna, Matija Jurisic with 16 thousand 500 kuna, Ivo Vukovic and Stanko Baturs for 14 thousand kuna. It is common to all these people that Croatian highways were brought out of retirement, i.e. they were HDZ personnel, parliamentary representatives, military or police officials or had some connections and acquaintances in HDZ. Mrs. Matkovic, can you explain to the Croatian public how and why these persons were brought to the Croatian highways? With whose approval and whose order, and why do citizens actually pay them?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42143	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Parliamentary Representative. So let me first answer this first part of your question that you don't know what I'm doing in the government and what my duties are, so I'll tell you what I'm doing. I am in the process of coordinating and implementing the national programme for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, and I would like to inform you that, regardless of what is unknown to you, most colleagues have, because a bunch of laws have been passed in the Croatian Parliament as well. Until today, 320 laws have been passed, 890 sublegislative acts, 292 implementing measures, and by the end of the year we have 8 laws, 49 sublegal acts and 38 implementing measures of which 2 laws go to this week's cabinet session. This is about the work of coordinating legislation. I also work on fulfilling all the obligations that the criteria for closing chapters in... The process, as well as the analysis of individual authorities of the state administration and their preparation for the moment when we become full members of the EU for their work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also deal with economic diplomacy as one of the important projects of this government, we are working on increasing exports, attracting foreign investors to the Republic of Croatia. I also work with my colleagues in the government on a horizontal network to meet all our obligations towards the EU, but also to prepare all those projects under NATO Alliance infrastructure projects. I am the president of the Croatian part of the Croatian-Hungarian Commission, I am the president of the Borders Commission and some other committees and believe me that I have a lot of work to do, and that you do not know it means that you do not follow enough of my work. I also want to inform you that being a minister without portfolio is not the first case in the Croatian government since the Croatian Government. And so far, here's your current parliamentary representative, she was a minister in the government and she didn't have a portfolio, Mrs. Sobol. As far as this issue is concerned about the Croatian highways, I want to inform you that I have never been a member of the board of directors or supervisors or members of the administration and I am definitely not the address for asking such a great question, but rather the resolution ministry. I want to reject your insinuations the way you asked the question, but that's your legitimate right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42144	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42145	Mrs. Matkovic, I'm not happy with the answer to the question. I would ask you, Mr. Vice President, to warn your HDZ colleagues that they are simply being polite. I'm not happy with the answer to your question because you haven't given me an answer to the question, and your function before, as in the previous government and this one, has been in public contact with all of these places, and I'm asking you to give me an additional and written answer, in fact, how many people in retirement have been employed in the state service? As long as you are in coordination, I hope that you will successfully coordinate and answer that question. And about what you've said, and what I haven't asked you at all, if it's true that you're doing everything and that nobody else in that job is doing it, and that you're responsible for the overall harmonisation of legislation, then maybe you should suggest that we actually end the Foreign Ministry because you and the Prime Minister are mostly doing it, according to what you're saying, and when we joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of European Integration, the argument has just been that everything just has to happen in one house, and now you're dislocated especially in the government again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42146	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42147	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I would like to refer the matter to Mr. Ivan Shuker, the Minister of Finance. Mr. Minister, a few weeks ago, we witnessed an almost incredible scene. You've returned from America and ordered a conjoined Croatian citizenship, I've charged Croatia with an additional billion and a half dollars. And you said even more, I could've owed three billion. This may not be abnormal in a country that is rich, which has the economic capacity of the thing to endure, but certainly is not good in a country that already has 41 billion euros in foreign debt. Mr. Minister, are you aware that every citizen of this country owes an average of 10,000 euros? Are you aware that in addition to that, you have charged these citizens with a billion-and-a-half U.S. dollars? Are you aware, Mr. Minister, that every child born in Croatia cannot expect equal chances from this government, a fair state, free education, but can expect and receive as a gift from your government 10,000 euros in debt that will have to be paid back during your lifetime? Mr. Minister, my question is very simple. How long do you think you'll be in charge of the Croatian people and how long will you be boasting about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42148	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If this were true all that Mr. Maras said, then I couldn't go back with... and say that we achieved the result we achieved. For the simple reason that no normal country that is as normal as you say would borrow its own money. That's one thing. It's another thing. Mr. Maras, you should know that out of these 750 million euros in bonds issued in the 5th month and this billion and a half dollars in the 10th month, one large part of the debt-refunding waste that your colleagues owed from 2001 to 2003 is one thing. It's another thing. The deficit can only be financed by borrowing and selling assets. The nominal in 2003 was bigger than today. Third thing. To deceive the Croatian public and to say that the government is in charge of 41 billion is simply not correct. For look, no one escapes that the debt of both the economy and the debt of the banks is an integral part of the external debt of the Republic of Croatia. When you talk about it, however, you should say how much the government has owed. However, Mr Maras, what you are not saying and what you do not want to say is that Croatia has successfully entered the international financial market, that it has received excellent grades on the American market. It's another thing. I'm sorry that as a man who promotes himself as a financial acquaintance, you don't know that after closing a book, the bond itself is well quoted on the secondary market gets an offer that you can still place yourself if you want. And for the sake of you, who are obviously keeping things quiet, I want to say something to the Croatian public. So, the moment the book was concluded, when the bond was issued, its nominal was 98 13 these days to the pride of our government and can be proud of all of Croatia, with the Croatian bond being traded with nominal 105. And it best speaks about what the international financial market thinks of Croatia. It's another thing. You talk about indifference all the time. Look, we had a vault auction last week. There were six times as many entries as the demand. It is a clear sign that the Croatian financial market is very liquid. Now the other couple of questions are being asked, why don't they want to place that money? Therefore, this demagogue performance gives you the best answer to the largest and richest funds from America that have offered Croatia to buy out 3 billion of its bonds. One market that is extremely subtle, which is extremely sensitive and on which Croatia appeared for the first time with a more significant bond issue, it clearly said. Obviously, you're keeping it quiet, too. Before us were members of the European Union of Poland, Hungary and Lithuania. Poland alone has achieved better conditions than we have. Hungary and Lithuania Member States of the European Union are far worse off. And what I will say with full responsibility and behind this I stand, that at this point the Croatian member of the European Union would have certainly had far, far better conditions for borrowing outside. And that is why you must support the arbitration agreement and why you must not run away from responsibility to create an opportunity for both the Croatian state and the Croatian economy to have even better conditions in the international and financial market. I say, please don't deceive the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42150	Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42151	Mr. Minister, if what you're saying were true, then Croatia wouldn't have kept falling credit ratings. If what you're saying were true, then the premium of the risk of investment in Slovenia compared to Croatia would not be 2.5 times smaller, if what you're saying were true, Croatian citizens would not pay interest more and more instead of Europe becoming less and less. You deceive the Croatian public and lead the Croatian financial disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42152	Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will ask the question of the Minister of Culture to Mr. Bishop. Mr. Minister, the government's programme and then the Ministry of Culture's commitment to the monument of the anti-fascist struggle. Here I think of Partizan Hospital and Bakic's monument on Peter's mountain. It's still in a sad state, and I haven't noticed anything more serious going on here. The question is, what did the Ministry of Culture do to carry out this obligation?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42154	Minister Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs. Namely, this is about two wholes. One is the whole of a central Partizan hospital that has 12 barracks, 12 objects, 2 grave mentions of features and which the Ministry of Culture has systematically cared about for years and can say that so far since 12, 10 has been restored. 2 are in recovery now and 2 will probably be completed next year by summer. And that was spent somewhere around a million kunas. And that's what he tends to do on a regular basis. And when it comes to that second central monument on Velika Petrovac, it also has 4 segments. One is that reception square, the other is a tourist and catering facility, the third is a staircase with a skeleton and a monument itself. He's been built since '79. Until '81. Three years, three years. It's never finished, unfortunately. It was cut off due to huge costs that the then state could no longer possibly bear, and therefore the devastation began right after that in the '80s. At the time of the war and after the war here and now these days it really happens, and there's a further devastation of the monument made of that prochroma, so people took it down and carried it away. And we are a true god when I was there, having a conversation with the Croatian forests, because they care about the whole part and it belongs there under the Croatian forest, they may have been able to help in some way to organize some kind of security service. But the problem is, it should be organized for 24 hours. I mean, those are huge costs. Unfortunately, I say with this concern about the Partizan hospital itself which is part of our normal concern about the monument of culture we are here in some way, we haven't found any solution, I don't know how we're going to solve it, we all have to try to sit together and see what can be saved and what can be preserved and maintained there. By the way, the great Croatian artist... Granny also let me inform you because it was the same speech. That monument "Bjelovarac" that was destroyed he was cast out, decorated and he's ready for installation these days in Bjelovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42156	Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42157	Mr. Minister, I understand, of course, all the difficulties you mentioned here. I'm afraid a little or a lot of whatever you want the many doubts that you've brought here now and that actually the whole thing either doesn't delay or it doesn't ruin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42158	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42159	Dear Prime Minister, my question goes to you. You've been in the prime minister's seat for five months. As soon as you arrived, you started cutting wages, introducing new taxes, harras, to raise VAT. Citizens and citizens have felt very strongly your arrival at the head of the government, you've further emptied their wallets, you've destitute them further. In a year the standard of living dropped 15% and fell further. Unemployment continues to gallop so that every month there are no jobs left with new 500 workers. You are announcing new belt tightenings, asking for further wage cuts, but not a word about increasing standards. My question is, do you and your government have any concrete solution that will stop the collapse of standards, unemployment and the crisis that is making us more and more tense?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42160	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs, of course I have but not just me, but the government as a whole, all members and members of the government. But first of all, I'd like to tell you that you didn't count well. I'm not five months. I'm just a little over four. So, from July 6th to today, it hasn't been five months. Well, here's when you want to be precise, then I believe you accept this observation. Everything the Government is doing, so all of the government's moves within the programme that I have presented on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are going after it first and foremost to get Croatia out of a crisis that I believe you will agree with is global, so it is not only Croatian, it is going to go towards overcoming the crisis and to get out of the crisis, and of course we can also mark the growth of standards, the growth of the economy that is the condition of all conditions for this to happen. That there's a sign of improvement I believe they're both telling you the facts or data on the fall of GDP which, of course, in the first quarter was terrible for 6.7. However, in the second quarter, we now record 6.3% of what everyone, so not me, but those who are certainly doing it daily, indicate as one of the signs of possible stopping and slowly as I paint it for myself and then slowly swimming towards the surface of the water. When we get to the surface, it's very difficult to predict. And as you know, unfortunately, I am in a position to speak or present figures that I do not expect to flash, of course, because the figures of both unemployment and the decline of GDP are figures which, of course, worry the government first. That is why the government has taken a series of measures that I would be very happy to give you if you agree to do so in writing. So that's one review of the measures we've taken and which we're doing right now to solve a lot of problems of indifference. So here's when I mention indifference, let me say two, three words about how, for example, we've made sure that we've rounded up our demands, first of all, all of the public companies. What is important is that we have managed to further save new action plans, i.e. people taking care of public enterprises, to save an additional nearly billion and 400 million kunas. What's extremely important is that we move on with these plans. So, the government continues to insist on reducing the wage mass in public enterprises, so the mass pays rather than paying for an additional 10%. As you know, we've had other measures, or we've been doing it since the pay cuts to officials, we're still thinking. Here's one announcement, we're still thinking in terms of additional restrictions on preferential pensions, but also many others related to additional savings as you know through three rebalancing nearly 6 billion kunas of the state budget. The budget we're working for next year goes that way. Therefore, the reduction of expenditure wherever it is possible, in any case, save all those projects that are important to us for the entry or conclusion of negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union. As you know, we have in our last rebalancing provided an additional 200 million kuna to support those companies, so to those companies that are in a particularly difficult situation, we are working on an additional realization of that project, that plan. Now we're at the end of a major project of united public procurement. So, a strong instrument on the one hand, we believe in further saving all the users of the state budget. We're counting on saving about 350 million kunas in that way. However, it is certainly a powerful anti-corruption message. So, Madam MPs can say that all the projects we are working through the Ministry of Economy, with which you will be very soon to know, as today you will probably give support to the new economy minister who has presented his work programme, which is respectable I must say, so with the people I am going to hire, which I am hiring as advisors, therefore, the most prominent experts in the area of economy. Here, they give me the right to announce new measures. Here, when you mentioned the standard, I will say that we are working very intensively, so first of all, Minister of Finance and I, but also other colleagues in the government on one project that we want to encourage housing, but also the sale of apartments on the Croatian market at this time as one of the possible promoters of total and consumption, but also many others related to projects, first of all, to saving on the one hand and to encouraging the economy. I also think that today I will propose that the new economy minister be precisely the person who comes from that area, who understands deeply and well the problems of the Croatian economy today, is an indicator of which direction we want to go. So, finally strengthening, strengthening the economy, creating new jobs, stopping unemployment is the foundation of our work in the next year 2010. So here you are, and on this occasion, I ask you to give your vote when we propose today a new Minister of Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42162	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42163	Dear Prime Minister, I thank you for your offer to answer me in writing. I would ask you to answer me in writing. Unfortunately, I'm not happy with your answer, because you've said a lot of words here, and you've said little in particular. And that is why I must conclude that the government is combing while Croatia is burning. As other countries in the environment slowly emerge from the crisis, Croatia is buried deeper and deeper thanks to you and your disorientation. We'll see what the 2010 budget will look like. I'm not overly optimistic from this answer of yours. And for this reason I ask you to spare the Croatian citizens and citizens of your wanderings and your sermons about the purity and care of your hands and instead of combing the image of the Government leave the final management of the Croatian someone who really knows and can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42164	Mr. Representative Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42165	Thank you very much, Vice President. I refer the question to the Deputy Prime Minister for Internal Policy, Mrs. Djurdji Adlesic. Last month, we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament a draft report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan for drug abuse for 2008. However, it is very rare to mention addictions such as alcohol addiction, and so on. Modern addictions which, above all, I think about gambling, betting, the Internet, gambling, which rarely lead to criminal activities. The question for the Deputy Prime Minister would any measures and activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia be carried out and implemented to prevent and reduce the deviant social phenomena of these modern addictions, and how is it helped for those who have entered the addiction zone? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42166	Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you too, Mr. Representative. Right, we discussed in this House about a month ago a report on the implementation of the strategy against addiction. I thank all the clubs that supported that report at the time. And then already mentioned the need to fight some other conditionalally more modern addictions, because alcohol certainly is not from more modern, but gambling, betting, the Internet, video games certainly are. There was one study that had to speed up our work, which is the fact that more than 80% of young people had to drink until their adulthood during the year, and about 46% of them had gotten drunk. This really says that there are new strategies to be implemented, to work with schools, to help parents, and we have organised a working group that is in the development of a national programme to prevent youth addiction in the educational system, but also for those not covered by regular education. We set a deadline by the end of this year. Many experts work on that program. I believe by the end of the year we'll be able to present that program. The questions we've been asked, what while we're working on this program? We work with those who need help before such a document is brought in. I'll tell you that at Sparrow Hospital, but also in Mercy Sisters on special programs working with gambling addicts, and it's really a very difficult addiction with frequent devastating consequences for the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42168	Mr. Representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42169	Thank you very much, Vice President. Given the way you said this was all about not only, but most of it is about young people. I prefer to think that your activity is also in prevention, but also in helping these young people more than necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42170	Madam representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mr. Ivic. Mr. Minister, if it is judged according to the papers, if it is judged by television contributions, by numerous articles, then it may seem to us or actually get the impression that violence among young people or violence made by young people is not excruciating. In fact, we can get the impression that it's getting more brutal, and I'm curious about what's actually going on and whether we don't have the right picture of what the ministry is doing to prevent violence among young people. So my question is what does it seem and can we do something to make the public know, after all, what measures have been taken? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42172	Minister Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42173	... Dear Madam MPs, I thank you first of all for this question, and here I will try to answer in the shortest lines what it is the Government and the Resort Ministry are doing to improve these trends. [[Specially enabled.]] At a session held in June this year, the government adopted a programme of activities to prevent violence among young people for 2009. I must say that, previously in this programme, activities in coordination for the foreign policy of social activity, in addition to the government's bodies, have been discussed by the Centre for Human Rights, the Ombudsman for Children, the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities, the Directorate of Croatian Radio Television, the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television and the Croatian Press Society, and that they have supported this government's programme of activities to prevent violence among young people. It is a programme that has 41 measures, and the key goal is to prevent violence in young people. Meanwhile, after that, the government also adopted a national programme for young people for the period 2009 to 2013, and passed the Law on protection against domestic violence. The government also sent a recommendation to local self-government units to set up a Youth Council to encourage the implementation of the programme in the local community, which concerns young people, which is otherwise the legal obligation of the local self-government unit. Through family centres in 17 counties, through seminars, workshops, stands, lectures also, so family centres have become involved in the implementation of this government's programme of prevention of violence among young people. I have to say that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has good cooperation with youth associations, which through youth clubs organise leisure, activities such as free time for young people, and that in the past 4 years, so from 2006 to 2009, almost 6 million kuna have been allocated to co-financing by 30 associations. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity also co-financed the work of 4 info regional youth centre in Osijek, Split, Rijeka and Zagreb. So, from all this, it is evident that the government, and also the resolute ministry, has very much been involved in implementing these measures to prevent violence among young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42174	Madam representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42175	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for his reply. We've heard closer, so what measures are being taken, but I'd also like to read more often in our media about these measures, to see positive shifts, not only in the media when something bad seems to be happening, when some brutality is being made. Well, I think it's the creation of a public change in some way in the intelligence of our media, and I invite them to pass on that positive picture to the young. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42176	Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42177	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to refer my question to the Secretary of State to the Department of Defense, Mr. Raboteg. State secretaries, in accordance with the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces for the period until 2015, target the numerical size of the active military group should be approximately 16 thousand persons employed. In recent years, we have had opportunities to see that this number is significantly reduced. My question is, can you tell me when the Armed Forces will reach the default planned size of approximately 16 thousand military personnel?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42178	State Secretary Mate Raboteg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, you've well noticed that in the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, we've predicted that as of January 1, 2010, we must have 16 thousand active military personnel in our Armed Forces. Since the numerous states of military composition today are slightly more than 16 thousand, so 16 thousand and 300 can be said that the default size has been reached. The reduction in the number of active military personnel over the past years, and I would also say the total number of armed forces and the Ministry of Defence have been implemented planically, bringing together complementary plans and separations and receptions each year. So we can say that in the past period since the end of 2002, we have totalled almost 23 thousand employees of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces. Of which, more than 17,000 and 850 military personnel. Based on the standard of professional development that we have accurately described, whether those persons do not satisfy the prescribed age structure, whether they do not meet the conditions of the level of education required for an appropriate duty. At the same time, during this period we planned and received young persons in the group so that the total reduction of active military personnel was somewhat less than this separation, so somewhere around 13 thousand and 612. So I said, we take care of the reception of new young people through various models. That's how soldiers are received through the institution of voluntary handbooks or from the market, and officers are received through the Kadet program by scholarship or from the market. In this way, as you can see, we are about the same size, but constantly with this process of reception and separation, we improve the structure of the staff so that we have significantly improved the structure in terms of professional development standards in relation to professional equipment and the age of soldiers mainly within the Armed Forces. And I think we're going to keep that number in the coming years at the target size that we set out in the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, but we're going to continue to keep trying to structure the Armed Forces with fine-tuning and targeted reception of new people.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42180	Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42181	Here's my thanks to the Secretary of State for the exhaustive report. Here's the answer I'm happy with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42182	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking my parliamentary question to the Prime Minister. Madam President, in Croatia this spring, we launched an initiative to analyse the business and prospects of pension funds. It's this individual, capitalized savings. We also asked for a different pension adjustment for 300 pensioners from the second pillar who, under the circumstances, had to retire to up to 30% less than pensioners from the first pillar alone. Your predecessor made a parade out of it. He announced the removal of the second pillar and said that it was wanted by the pensioners themselves, which was absurd and did not happen again. I ask you, Madam President, whether or not the Government will propose amendments to the law that people who in the second pillar save a little bit in the 7-year separation to the second pillar exercise the right to a fairer or better pension? The example works, the lady who saved in 7 years 42 thousand kuna receives 162 kuna pensions from the second pillar without indexation. These people have bought into the country's propaganda that the second pillar solves all pension problems, and then there is the culprit, then Minister Vidovic. They were objectively not able to save enough in a short time, nor could they predict that their working relationship had ceased because of the bankruptcy or resolution of excess workers. Madam President, you can give me any answer, just please don't tell me you're going to form a task force or that people themselves are responsible for their choice and are now suffering the consequences of their choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42184	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranaka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, I could answer you anyway, as you suggested I wouldn't answer, but of course I wouldn't. Here, I'll say, I could actually sum up the answer in one sentence. If you had stayed in the ruling coalition, you'd have full and complete insight into what we're doing today. But you didn't. So I can tell you now that we're working on it. Of course we're in a hurry. We're not setting up any new commissions and new commissions. Everything we needed was established. And of course we want to make the system as sustainable as possible for the future in the end of all of us, meaning those people who come to retirement. But certainly taking care of the difficult situation in which many pensioners live in Croatia today. What I also want to announce to you is that in December we will pay off the next pension debt war. So 840 million kunas have been prepared. We will pay in spite of the difficult conditions in which we all live, despite the difficult economic situation and the difficulties facing the economy as a whole, but then the state budget. And I'll remind you, of course, that you know very well, that we have paid 7 billion debt to the pensioners so far and that we will continue at the same pace until 2013. Of course, one of our wishes is, certainly, one of your tendencies is that as many pensioners as possible are going to retire in the future with a full-time internship, that it will certainly contribute to the stabilisation of the system as well. And here I want to inform you that in this year, for example, the 2009 meanings have increased by about 6% despite all the difficulties we've faced. So here's all the data I've told you for sure that they talk enough about what the government does, what the effort is. And about everything we will do on the trail and your questions, of course you will be very quickly informed first and foremost as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. I repeat, you could've been a member of the ruling coalition, you could've helped yourself, but there you are, so we're gonna finish this job ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42186	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42187	Thank you very much for your answer. Of course I'm not completely satisfied, because I didn't get an answer on the specific question whether or not you're going to solve it. Of course I'm familiar with everything you've said, because I'm a co-creator and that compensation project. Yeah, that Sucreator. Because if it hadn't been for the Croatian party of pensioners, there would probably never have been any compensation. You know it as well as I do, because neither you promised him nor the SDP confessed him. That's the facts. I'm just asking and I'm glad you didn't fall for those suggestions, and I'm glad you responded like this. But I would ask you not to forget that if you answered this question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42188	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42189	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Prime Ministers with members and members of the government. I refer my question to Mr. Bozidar Calmeta. Dear Minister, we know that the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is implementing a series of programmes and measures aimed at improving the competitiveness of our shipowners before entering the European Union. At the end of April, a tender for a small-value support programme was launched in contrast to the prices of fuel to shipowners in national navigation for 2009. Almost a month ago, the deadline for submission of the application for the payment of the fuel support spent this year expired. We know that there is an increasing interest, and the need for a shipowner to use these aids. And given the complex economic situation for both citizens and Croatia, I am interested in Mr. Minister, will the State, or the Ministry of which you are headed, be able to pay for the support for small boaters' fuel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42190	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42191	Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So it's about entrepreneurs, little boaters so-called. which carry out the activities of round trips of one-day trips, several-day trips but only in national navigation that can carry in these ships about 5,000 passengers at once and have capacity of about 2,000 beds. They are organized into 7 associations and make a very important tourist offer, i.e. part of the tourist offer, a traditional Croatian tourist offer that is well known throughout Europe and the world. And in that sense, even in 2007, I think of the government clearly, we made a decision to pay the difference in fuel prices for these shipmen. So in 2007, in 2008, we paid more than 16 million kunas in the price difference for these small boaters that I was talking about earlier. The government also made a decision this year to pay those boaters a price difference, fuel prices and blue diesel differences in 2009 in such a way that 7.5 million kuna was secured in the budget, that complete procedures were carried out, that all port captains, chambers, etc. You meet and have the task of getting to know all the shipmen at that opportunity, although they already know it. Now, the process of processing these received requests by port captains is under way, and in any case the answer to your question, by the end of the year, funds will be paid for this difference in fuel prices following this decision by the Government that was made in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42192	Representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42193	I thank you for your response, and I share my pleasure with the small boaters. But I'm sure with these aids and the rest that the ministry has been giving to the boaters for the last five years, I'll remind you, these are the grants with which 33 ships were built and reconstructed 16 of them, and despite this economic crisis. So at the end of September, you made sure that you signed an additional grant agreement. I hope that all these measures, or I'm sure they will make our fleet better and more competitive and thus continue to protect the interests of domestic shipmen in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42194	Representative Boro Grubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42195	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The question of the Prime Ministers to Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Seven days ago, you were visiting Slavonski Brod. Clearly as an opposition, I followed your visit mostly from the media. So I ask you, how long do you and your ministers think of useless visits, painting and recording for the media in Slavonski Brod as a declarative i.e. verbal support for the needs of a day-long policy to buy time and "help" the economy of Slavonski Brod and above all "Djuro Đaković holding" and do you intend to prevent further dismissal of workers and protests of hungry people who are absolutely following and announced?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42196	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42197	Mr. Vice President. First of all, I wasn't in Slavonski Brod, then I was in Djura Djakovic seven days ago than I was five days ago. I was there on Saturday, which, as you know, was a busy day for you and with my ministers, I worked Saturday, and I worked on Sundays, and I work every day for 16 hours a day to help with the government as a whole to solve the problems in Croatia. As you know, "Djuro Djakovic" is not a company owned mostly by the Republic of Croatia, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia understands very well the problems and tries to help. But I'll tell you what I said there. You're talking about painting, and I'm gonna tell you that there was certainly a large number of journalists who were interested and I guess you thought we were supposed to run off to some back door. This government does not run from anything unlike some others who run as well as you know from the law and across the borders of this country. This government doesn't run away from journalists, from workers or from problems, Mr. Representative. And I can inform you that we are on track and that meeting where we have made it very clear that we will not do anything illegal, no matter what it is, that we have agreed on some measures. The last meeting in this regard will be held in the government of the Republic of Croatia on Friday or will be held by ministers in the government. We're on track for a solution, I can't talk about details, of course, because I wouldn't prejudge things and we wouldn't cause any expectations that would then certainly not be realized. But I can tell you that we're also looking for solutions through HZ, so to raise some extra credit so that, of course, we can finance the construction of a hundred cars. Of course it's a question of what... A hundred cars, that's a fundamental question for the government, and it should be for you, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also one possible project with JANAF that I can't tell the details of until the whole project comes to mind. And finally, as far as painting, Mr. Representative, here's what I suggest you do, but with the orderer of this question, you show up at Djura Djakovic's in Slavonski Brod. I assure you that they will take pictures of you from all sides, from above and from below.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42198	Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42199	Madam Prime Minister, it is not up to me to paint like you, from above or below. Furthermore, you know who is the country's biggest fugitive, that's your predecessor and your mentor, Mr. Former Prime Minister. He's the biggest fugitive in this country who's left the country in the state it is. Now, that's the real truth, not the ones you're declaring fugitives across the border, who, because of your repression and forced process, have brought them into such a situation, so you know that. And as for Djura Djakovica, Mr Polancec, your former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy has already been at a meeting with the people of Holding in 6th place, nothing has been done. He was also your predecessor Mr. Sanader on several occasions with the people of Holding, nothing was done. She was a government meeting in Slavonski Brod and nothing was done. Therefore, a car wash that consumes 37 kunas is made monthly, so much for the Slavonski Brod Car Laundromat. It's about the Vrpolje Sushionnica, so we don't talk. About the police department that was promised in Slavonski Brod... to Vinkovce after a new reconstruction of police administrations. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] And that's what we're talking about. So I'm not saying it for no reason. A thousand workers have been fired in Slavonski Brod since the new year... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42200	Thank you. Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42201	So the sixth-largest city in Croatia doesn't deserve the motherhood of this government and this state.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42202	I hope I can ask the question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42204	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. My question today is about national population policy and I will therefore refer it to the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity of our former colleague and today Minister Tomislav Ivic. On 20 November, the International Day on the Rights of the Child is marked at the time of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Of course, every child has the right to life and health but also to education no matter what conditions he was born in, in what state he is actually in financial terms are members of his family. The Croatian Parliament adopted a good Law on the establishment of the foundation "Croatia for Children" in 2008 and the foundation was founded with the purpose of increasing the birth rate, promoting family values and empowering families with a higher number of children, and in particular to provide financial assistance to those children whose parents are in a particularly difficult financial situation and they themselves are talented or perhaps have no money for additional education for which they actually have talent. Since after the appointment of the current Minister of the Family of Mrs Jadranka Kosor as Prime Minister, you have therefore become Minister of the Family and are hereby appointed president of the Management Board of Foundations. So please let the Croatian Parliament and the public know what happened after your appointment, what projects have been undertaken and at all what state the work of the foundation "Croatia for children" is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42205	Minister Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42206	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for asking Mrs. Kalash's esteemed representative. And what you said yourself in 2008 created a legal assumption for the establishment of the "Croatia for Children" Foundation with the primary aim of raising funds to develop and strengthen positive innovative trends and empowering families with a higher number of children and as part of measures from national population policy. And I am pleased to say that, because Croatia is working for children, that they are created in addition to legal and all other legal assumptions that the foundation could act, that there is also a place for the work of the foundation, that a person who will perform administrative and technical tasks is also accepted so that the foundation can function at all. What is most important, of course, is that they have been provided with lottery funds and resources for the work and activity of the foundation, and that so far there have been several individual support in the case of diseases in children in families of weaker property, whether it is support for multiple families etc. But what I particularly want to point out is that October 31st a public invitation for the award of scholarships from the Croatian Foundation for Children was also called for. It is intended to grant a thousand scholarships in the amount of thousands of kuna for children who need such a form of scholarship in order to continue their studies, i.e. education at all. One of the activities currently being prepared is money support, one-time money support for St. Nicholas for families with eight and more children, and for children without both parents. So, from what I've said, the foundation has started to function successfully, and in the future, especially this family with more children can count on the help and support from the Croatian Foundation for Children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42207	Representative Jeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42208	Thank you for your answer. I absolutely welcome all the efforts you make as a minister of the family, with the aim of empowering a family with more children. I would also like to point out once again clearly from the position of the Vice-President of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport that the priority of each country is to invest in children, because this is actually a proper provision for the future. The fact is that infrequently in the world, even Europe happens that countries often save on children. It is precisely the most common restriction that happens in terms of cutting the state budget. I am particularly proud that this is not happening in Croatia, and I thank you... and all the efforts you are making in this regard of preserving and therefore further progress in the work of the Croatian Foundation for Children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42209	Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Prime Minister, Ministers in Government, colleagues and colleagues. And what a teacher will do, rather than ask the question of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Mr. Minister, how are the State's graduation preparations going? The half-year is near, the end of the school year is here, graduations, state graduations have to start. What's the interest of a student of vocational schools in the state's graduation? And have the high schools in the Republic of Croatia begun to recognise the results of the national graduation exams in exchange for the exams?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42211	Minister Radovan Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42212	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative, MPs and MPs. The state's graduation preparations are going according to plan, and I can say they're going extremely well. All technical preconditions are met, the information system and the organisational system is set up so that, as planned, the state graduation begins, and that is to say, it has already begun in some ways. In all schools in the Republic of Croatia, all students received their PIN and TAN, so secret numbers with which they will be able to engage in data processing, control their results and numbers and systems that guarantee their individuality and data protection as prescribed. On the other hand, we are now in a phase where there are indications for study programmes that students will be able to correct once again during the start of the national graduation, so the selection of their study programmes. Each of them can choose 10 possible study programs that he wants to study. All the higher schools in the Republic of Croatia accepted the results of the state graduation as a criteria for enrolment. High school graduates attend state high school, and vocational school students take exams from state schools, as the system of completion in vocational school students is somewhat different than in high school. However, this does not in any way impair them in relation to graduates from the high school system. The interest of vocational schools, i.e. students of vocational schools, can be expressed only at the moment based on the state-tested graduation which was 87% of all students of vocational schools. It is expected, given that now it is really an expression of interest to continue the study, that this percentage could possibly fall something, but we do not expect that it will significantly decrease in relation to what we got as a result of the test state graduation that was carried out a year ago. The plan provided for from 1 December 2009 to 31 January 2010 will therefore be allowed to be declared specifically definitely, as regards the selection of the case, the exams shall start on 19 February and shall be held until 2 June. The results will be known on June 30th. At the final stage is now the harmonisation of the databases at the Ministry of Administration, because it is a desire for the full results of state graduation and university enrolment to take place by electronic means. Therefore, at the time when the child has passed the State Graduation, when he sees which study programmes can be signed up according to his own results, he will choose the study programme he wants to study and at that time receive a certificate that will then enroll in that university without the need to bring home, testimony or anything else. So one very simple procedure. What should be pointed out is that it is primarily a verification of our higher education system on the one hand, on the other hand it is more simple and fairer and way of enrolling our higher education institutions, and ultimately it is one of the anti-corruption measures, because although not broadly, but there have been objections and cases that some of the components in the higher education system have experienced some irregularities, so writing past some criteria which in this case is being waste. I think we can be extremely pleased with our own conduct and the state graduation system.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42213	Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42214	Thank you very much. I can see from the above that the preparations have grown larger and I recommend that Mr. Ministers be involved in this, in my opinion, very important, action and a very important project, and founders. administrative departments in the counties and administrations of the state administration. And also to point out that there will be very needy and information support, we have everything or you have on the ground and I recommend going to school, an explanation of how it will all look and to make it work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42215	Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42216	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I refer my question to Minister Shuker. For 14 months in this country, the number of insolvent legal entities and craftsmen has increased by about 35% in a year. 104 thousand people are directly at risk at this point with insolvency companies, companies. 104 thousand people at this point can end up on the road. 19 billion have passed the liquidity in legal persons, over 4.5 billion in craftsmen. That's over 22 billion. Unsettled liabilities to the state amount to over 9 billion. In the battery it is more than 33 billion kuna compared to the gross social product it is over 10% of the social product that has been blocked. How can Croatia develop when 10% of GDP is blocked? The SDP has proposed 26 anti-recession measures to save the Croatian economy, you have not accepted any. The opposition, among the 2 measures it has proposed, has proposed that, as in the EU, the state settle its obligations and debts and not order until it has met its old obligations. My question to you, since this 14-month trend is on the rise, you are the 14-month minister, it says, "Why don't you accept our proposals and you don't have yours?"
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42217	Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for this question because this is an opportunity to face it face to explain some things because this is how you just list numbers, and not enter them analytically creates one wrong picture. First of all, because of you and the Croatian public, all the obligations paid from the Croatian budget are paid in time and I am responsible for saying this here in front of the Croatian public. So you can't chase pears and apples. The second thing, when you look at the structure or compare it to GDP, how unsettled were the obligations of those famous four years of your government... Then you'll see that in 2000 it was 9.1%, 2002. 6.8, 2003. 5.3% while the average of these six years of this government and those are actually ex-government, actually two governments ago is 4.6%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there is something that we would have to solve together both SDP and HDZ and all the political parties at the moment, which is what none of us have looked at analytically, because when you talk about a complex subject like this, then you have to look at it analytically. Then you need to see by structure and by the number of employees who make up most of the blocked companies? And then you'll come up with one shocking indicator, which is that out of the 24 companies that are blocked because of each other's claims, those that don't have any employees. They're 16 grand and 51. Those who have one to five employees, they are 7 thousand and 300, or total when you add it all together, that's 95%. And there's a rabbit in that bush, and that's why, according to the Justice Department, we've sent a proposal to amend the Court Register Act, and we're also looking at how in the Accounting Act, the Income Tax Act and the Profit Tax Act, we've put in place provisions that those who don't have a single employee can't deal with a particular job. But you said the government's commitments were nine billion. That's just not true. Why? Because according to the tax administration's data, the taxpayers' obligations and what the tax authorities and financial police have determined, therefore, total debt of 86 billion, that was in 2008, and the charge is 83 billion, which means 97%. So, as far as the state budget is concerned, I repeat all obligations are met within the time limit. The liquidity of public companies has increased recently and when "INA" pays its obligations regarding the special tax on "Croatian roads" and "Croatian highways", "Croatian roads" and "Croatian highways" will no longer have virtually outstanding obligations. What is the real problem in the Republic of Croatia at the moment and that is what I keep saying, and that is paying in the real sector between private people where the state can very hard do something, and you can see it by the number of blocked persons who are, in fact, legal and physical persons who have been blocked for more than 6 years. And at the end of which trail and where with these laws you're talking about and what effect the law would be, it would be best to look at what effect of that famous Law of yours has reached and unpaid claims with a limited duration and who has used the benefits of that law and then see what the effects of that are. So, where the state can charge for sure that the jury accounts are blocked and sure to take all the measures, however talk about such a complex problem, and not look at it from all aspects is simply something that is not good and what ultimately because of the unargumented stories encourages indifference in the Republic, and you colleagues are unfortunately doing it in recent months.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42219	Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42220	Thank you very much. Well, I expected this answer from you. You said measures were being taken, you said liquidity had increased in state-owned enterprises. Only the statistics aren't on your side. 14 months, that's going down. Are you saying the CNB is wrong? So you need to agree on the data. So it's obvious that someone has the wrong data. It's either you or the CNB. Look at the statistics, what are the unsettled obligations of the state? Between 180 and 360 days. I wish you'd seen it, but you didn't, and it can't be Racan's government's fault, it's an argument that you've been using for six years, but unfortunately it's an argument that 50 thousand people who lost their jobs in the last year in this country can't accept 51 thousand people who will be out of work this year, in the opinion of the Croatian Employers' Association, who also had good prognosis this year, and from the ranks of which your economy minister will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42221	Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42222	Your Honor, Vice President. It's a question for Mr. Secretary Shuker. While citizens and most of the businessmen pay each of the taxes given by the state, each day becoming increasingly difficult, many are in debt to meet their obligations, others are tolerated by billions of kunas, even billions of kunas in tax debt, including companies where the state is either co-ownership or majority owned. Mr. Minister, can you answer me how much in the state budget on behalf of VAT and excise duties in the sector of the production of alcoholic beverages, for example? He owes "Dalmation Wine"?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42223	Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42224	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Well, I'm glad you're giving me the opportunity to answer what you said on the press because they can't answer. So, there are two things about "Dalmation of Wine," and I'm not going to repeat myself or refer to myself now, because from some time on, you have to start. So, at the end of 2003, the "Dalmation of Wine" debt was 280 million. Take these six years, average tight interest 14.5%, and you'll see what amount you get. However, the esteemed representative has something that you, while you were in power, did not take care of. And that's, and you can check it out at the State's Attorney's Office, because we've been working on something together with the State's Attorney's office for five years, and that's to save the maritime good that's part of "Dalmation of Wine." I am also glad that ten days ago we ended this procedure and that it will be possible to proceed in the bankruptcy and collection process as regards "Dalmation of Wine" because until we solved the problem of maritime goods, it could have been very easy to do so in bankruptcy, that someone for very small money could come to a very valuable land on the Split Riviera. If you don't believe what I'm telling you, you can check with the State's Attorney's office, and then you'll see that it's true, and that was why Dalmation Wine didn't take certain steps. But most of that debt you speak of was inherited from the time you were in power. So 280 million plus interest. Today it's that debt for excise fees, taxes and all that, about 750, 760 million. So that's something that's a fact that no one escapes from. However, numbers can be viewed one way or another. Or are you saying that maybe they should have sent Dalmation Wine into bankruptcy, so until the maritime good is resolved, that someone for the very little money could come to the sea's good. Or we should have done what was done to the 3 May shipyard, where your colleagues took the most valuable property along the coast, excluded it from the property "May 3rd" and asked God to whom it was intended for sale. But apparently some kind of conflict of interest committee that they know very well doesn't want to worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42225	Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42226	Mr. Minister, I didn't expect a different answer. However, I have been in history for over 6 years, I would not return, because it can definitely no longer be an alibi for what is happening today to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There are 10 billion outstanding commitments to the budget, and we've introduced a tax that you don't want to hear its name, but citizens are using a term that I'm going to say the harractor. 3.5 billion kuna to collect from the citizens. And also companies like "Dalmation of Wine" tolerate the non-payment of excise duties and VAT and notes at the expense of a huge number of small, medium and large producers of alcoholic beverages fighting on the market and which, with the dumping of low malt prices, do not destroy, or reduce their ability to work in quality. Therefore, Ministers, I ask you to answer in writing what are the criteria for the sector of the production of alcoholic beverages, for example. The "Dalmation of Wine" tolerates or is released from the payment of excise duty and VAT, e.g. "Istra Wine" or some other producers don't. And the second question is, when are you going to bring order into this sector? Is it just a matter of desire or knowledge? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42227	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Prime Minister, two months ago, I asked you a question that concerns setting up a list of voters, which read. Do the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of the Interior work to coordinate the list of voters with residence records? You replied, yes, of course, to work in haste. Two months later today, I'm asking you. What has the government done to get a list of voters from the Republic of Croatia that does not include about 600,000 voters more than it can possibly have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42229	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Yeah. So I answer as you said two months ago. Yeah, we're working on it. However, I believe that you will agree that it would be very difficult before the elections, because even then we were ahead of the presidential elections, to make radical moves in terms that would actually lead to maybe the president's election might not be able to hold if we opened that Pandora's box. Therefore, I answer yes, yes. So, first of all, we're going to get the Department of Administration that got that warrant, working fast to see the first effects you'll see very soon. One of the activities is certainly an amendment to the Housing Act. So we're working on it. The amendments to the residence law are actually over. I can tell you that there is an agreement in the ruling coalition on this, first of all, that the Housing Act must be amended. There are other shades. And now I'm telling you on behalf of the HDZ biggest party, we have absolutely no reason to object in any way to amending that law and other laws if necessary. Therefore, here we are at the end of this work and I believe that in the beginning of next year we will also present to the Croatian Assembly all possible steps that we will take and which we will take in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42231	Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42232	The chorus with the list of voters continues. There are 4 million 437 thousand 460 inhabitants in Croatia and there are 4 million 478 thousand 554 voters from the last parliamentary elections. So we have 41 thousand 094 more voters than residents, which is impossible. But it's possible with us. How did that happen? In 1992 there were about 3.5 million voters, 1997. Four million, which is why there's a diaspora. 2000. 4 million 250 grand, 2005. 4 million 400 thousand and 2007 almost 4.5 million. So the number of voters has increased in the last 15 years by 903 thousand 522, which is about 400 thousand because the number of diaspora voters has been added. There's no reason for 500 grand more than there are for those 100 grand because the population has dropped in those 15 years. So, 600 thousand voters, the Republic of Croatia, has more than the population. And what did the government do? Unfortunately, very little, and it was necessary to ensure the adoption of a law that would allow for compliance in the residence records with the actual situation on the ground. Because if she did, for example, there wouldn't be about 140,000 voters who don't have any valid IDs, or about 60,000 voters, who have expired their period of validity. Here, that's my comment on Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42233	Mr. Representative Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Prime Minister, members of the government. I refer my question to the Minister of Culture, Mr. Boza Bishop. The question, Mr. Minister, concerns the establishment of a diocese in Bjelovar, and I must say that after the order of questions was established, the parliamentary questions at this session of the Parliament found out that we would also have a meeting on the subject of the establishment of the diocese in Bjelovar. But I believe that this is an extremely important issue because the Belarusian public, not only the town of Bjelovar and Bjelovar-Bilogian County, is also widely sensitive to the establishment of a diocese in Bjelovar with the desire to establish a diocese because it not only carries with it and provides a more quality spiritual life but also in this world segment brings progress and takes steps. Well, because of this exceptional importance, Mr. Minister, no matter where we have a meeting to discuss the principle project and details, I am asking you for brief information on the activities of the establishment of the diocese in Bjelovar, and especially because of that, Mr. Minister, you are the Prime Minister of Relations with the religious communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42235	On the answer to the bishop's question, Minister Bozi Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42236	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, when it comes to the establishment of the diocese, it is not for me to decide. It is for the Vatican. Therefore, we can only talk here about the spatial accommodation of the bishop what it was about. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Bishop's Conference reached agreements on this. The government has made decisions and is preparing a contract for signing. What we must of course do because it depends on both the town of Bjelovar itself and the mayor is to achieve help to move part of the state archive out of that building next to the church itself, so that the city needs to help and create spatial conditions so that we as the Ministry of Culture can move out that archive and thus create space for the future diocese. As I said, Mr. Representative, the bishop's decision to or not decide the Vatican. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42237	Mr. Representative Anton Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42238	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I must publicly say that all the projects the town of Bjelovar had and co-operated with the Ministry of Culture and personally with Mr Bozo Bishop that we realised them to satisfaction. I hope so, and I'm sure we'll do this when all the conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42239	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. Since the budget of the Republic of Croatia is under way for 2010 as well as the plan for the activities of the Croatian roads, but also because of the importance of the Rijeka port and its belonging road infrastructure for the Croatian economy, my question is the following. What about building a road D403 which is to remind you of the strategic importance for the development of the Rijeka port. I'd even dare say that the development of the Rijeka harbor doesn't exist without the construction of this road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42241	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42242	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Madam representative, thank you for asking. So I answer a specific question very specifically, and I'm glad you're asking a really specific question. This road you mention is in the next medium term in the plan. I must inform you that we have had to give up as you know from many projects, that we have made at the Road Building Committee a decision that we have really stopped some. For some, however, we are looking for new sources of funding means more favourable sources of funding given the moment of economic development in which Croatia is located. But what I am pleased to announce I believe that we will soon see each other at the end of this year or early next year, whether so is the Minister, at the opening of another big and important project for Rijeka. Here after opening the port as you know of an extremely important project in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has invested a really significant and respectable means I believe that we will meet soon and at the opening of this road. However, as I said at the beginning, this is in the plan but I believe that you will have understanding for a moment because of the difficulties we are facing and at the moment at which definitely some of the projects we have planned to postpone, some long-term as you know we have decided to build an example of the Peljega Bridge by 2015. Here, in the following year there are also 100 million kunas as we have rebalanced for 2009. Therefore, all that is necessary and important to build as a infrastructure throughout Croatia, taking care of the even development of the Republic of Croatia, we are working and I think that Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County can indeed be satisfied because this government, or this one, has passed, and it has really invested considerable funds since the end of 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42243	Representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42244	Mrs. Kosor, I am pleased to agree that the Rijeka traffic direction is one of the strategic traffic points in the Republic of Croatia which is important in determining the Croatian, county and Rijeka economies. Unfortunately, however, it is the only thing we agree on. Namely, the city of Rijeka may not be familiar with this, but the city of Rijeka stressed the need for the road that we are talking about at the moment, so the D403 road is part of the Rijeka-Getawaj project. And in that case, the road would be financed from the World Bank's loan. However, this has been refused by the competent ministry of all these years, i.e. for political reasons, and I think that the river rightly expects that in the general interest of Croatian road citizens, it will finally cease to think daily and come to the realization of the project of the D403 joint road, and in that sense I am also looking for your written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42245	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42246	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. My question is to the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Byce. They are heard after the tourist season in the public various interpretations about the success and results of this year's tourist season. I would ask you to tell us here clearly and publicly what the actual results of this year's season are? And what are you going to do for next season? I would especially ask you to put the accent in your response to the Dubrovnik area, since I know that there are some negotiations that are under way regarding subsidising charter flights and passengers on charter flights, given the area of Dubrovnik which is still, wanted me to admit it or not, on a road-insulated basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42247	Minister Damir Byce. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42248	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the honored and respected parliamentary deputies and, of course, the representatives of this honorable House. So as for 2009, I have to say that the announcements of many for this tourist season were such that it could be expected, therefore, that 30% of the departures, approximately so much revenue, 2 billion euros less income than tourism. And you shouldn't forget the downfall of almost 15% or 20%. Fortunately, those wicked prophets were wrong, and I'm glad... Croatia's tourism has one of the best results in the Mediterranean as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was just last week in London, at a ministerial conference of all tourism ministers practically worldwide, and I am glad that many colleagues congratulated us, so it is not only the success of me as a minister, but the entire government, on the fact that in this extremely difficult year for world tourism, Croatia has one of the few positive results. I'm going to point out that this positive result actually means that we're on, when I'm talking about the nights, somewhere minus 2% of the arrivals, that we're in plus for the nights. And perhaps most importantly, we're in the middle of a number of employees. So we have 400 or 500 more employees in tourism than in 2008. I am saying this because colleagues from other countries have put this as a special topic at a ministerial conference, since the number of tourism employees in many countries has fallen by almost 15%. And it has become a big problem for the governments of those countries. If I didn't talk about it, of course, that those ominous predictions and happened, that now one euro would be worth 8 kuna, enough to look at what it is... It's not necessarily like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'll be brief. The 2010 measures are in preparation, they have already been launched. And I have to point out here that of course there are measures... We will continue to be strong... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] our most important markets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We expect a visa waiver for a number of states. And as for Dubrovnik, you're absolutely right. And I have to say that, I would say, on a boost and with one joint effort and Dubrovnik County, but also everyone else in Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik tourism industry, we have made a common model that goes towards support, but also a destination. And what encourages us, so in London was a great interest in our press conference, to present our measures, and we had twice as much... than we predicted, so we looked for a chair more on our round table for the 2010 measure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I appreciate it as one of the good announcements, trends, but I must stress that we must continue to be careful when we talk about... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42249	Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42250	Here I thank the minister for this answer. The joyous fact that we are among the best in the Mediterranean. Also happy is the fact that there's a number of overnight stays in plus the number of employees, as you said. And to praise is this initiative by our Dubrovnik-Neretva Mayor, who apparently fruited in agreement with the ministry, which means subsidising all passengers in the post-season air transport, which is very important. Because what I understand is the strategy of Croatian tourism, and Dubrovnik must be all year long tourism, not the season of 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 months that we have already achieved in Dubrovnik. In any case, it is important to mention and use this situation here to say that Dubrovnik is in a special position in relation to all of Croatia in terms of traffic isolation and therefore mentioning the Peljega Bridge today and continuing road construction is very important when it comes to Dubrovnik, and I think Dubrovnik is unique and we don't care how we come into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42251	Mr. Representative Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42252	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister, Mr. Health and Social Care, Mr. Darka Milinovic. Dear Mr. Minister, the question I will ask you concerns today's topic in the Republic of Croatia, which is pandemic flu. What is available today to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia through various media and information is that so far in the Republic of Croatia, about 3 and a half thousand people have had, therefore, a milder form. But what really intrigues the public is a public approach, especially a part of the public where we can actually see different views, from those that have in some way panicked, and even to a part of the media that went there to sensationalism practically when it comes to this pandemic flu. Again, we also have some questions that plague citizens, which is the claim of some to be vaccinated, but some others' claims do not vaccinate. All of this should, in fact, be from a position primarily for you, I hope, whether it is measurable for citizens to explain and to settle temporarily at least the situation in which the public is now located. My question would be around, does it actually have a panic, does it have a basis for panic, Mr. Minister? So is the Republic of Croatia ready for this pandemic flu? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42253	Minister Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There's one new thing about what you said or let me say on this side about correcting an incorrect quote, since we've moved on to a seven-day report, so not daily. Yesterday, the headquarters that is following the public of the new flu came up with the fact that in Croatia, 11 thousand 916 people of the new flu, today probably over 12,000, but what is good to say and mention well, that more than 10,000 people have been over this flu without any specific complications. What it says about the fact that there is no room for panic in the Republic of Croatia. I have to thank here really after several sensationalist inscriptions in the media that the media also played their important role in calming panic and the Croatian health system, i.e. there was no panic in Croatia about the emergence of a new pandemic flu. That's what I want to thank all health care professionals. Here's a Dr. Professor. Ostojić, who has been in several educational content shows together with us from the Ministry of Health and in this way we wanted to give real information to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian health system, for countless times I will repeat, is ready and has welcomed this pandemic flu. It also says the fact, here if we have 12,000 people today who have been over the pandemic flu since the beginning of the pandemic flu, actually got a new flu, somewhere today acute cases in the Republic of Croatia have between a thousand and a half and two thousand, and we have 100,000 antiviral drugs on the ground. It's one of the data that speaks of the health care system's readiness for a new pandemic flu. It was also said that there was not enough apparatus. There are 33 respirators who may be waiting somewhere, God forbid it's necessary. We have 6 new ECMO appliances that are important for the treatment of those most threatened, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Prime Minister, has also signed a solution at the last meeting of the Government to purchase a million-and-a-half kuna purchase of 2 new ECMO appliances. These are all data that say that there is no panic, that the Croatian health system is prepared and, of course, only to be recorded and we expect the first doses of vaccines against the new pandemic flu and all these facts indicate that there is no panic and that the Croatian health system is prepared. There are also the most difficult outcomes, but that happens in ordinary seasonal flu. I will once again point out that from the seasonal flu in the world, unlike year after year, between 250 and 500 thousand people die. Of course, and of this pandemic flu, unfortunately, there are also these most difficult outcomes. Once again, I want to take advantage of the opportunity and thank all health care professionals who often come and these days work overtime to ensure that our patients, our citizens are absolutely safe in the health system and that they feel that the health system is fully prepared for the new pandemic flu.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42255	Mr. Representative Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42256	... responds, of course, that your answer is primarily in the function of address and through this most important institution of Croatian people to calm down what we call unnecessary panic and sensationalism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in any case, I think that once again and again, from this position and this place, you have therefore contributed primarily to the right approach, which is legitimate information primarily on your part, but also to the service involved and I support that proper information should certainly be the basis on which it rests and peace of citizens, not by any sensationalism or any kind of raising artificial panic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42257	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Prime Minister with members of the government and colleagues. I would ask my question to Mr Fuchs, and it concerns the system of funding for higher education. Mr. Minister, would you be so kind as to tell us who are members of a working group working on a model of new funding for higher education and student scholarships? It would be equally nice to hear what kind of model this expert working group has to design? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42259	Minister Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42260	Dear MPs, you know that the ministry has already announced that it will work to prepare a new University Law. This new Law on universities has indeed been written and passed on to the rector's choir and rectors of Croatian universities for opinions and comments. On this basis, the rectorial assembly decided to run, namely to propose a number of its experts who would work together with the ministry on exactly what you say, on a model that primarily refers to the part of the law that provides for a new concept of financing for Croatian universities. Namely, this model of financing Croatian universities under a new law to be passed predicting the signing of the so-called the implementation programme that is agreed and coordinated between the individual university and the ministry in principle as is done today with the state budget, so each university needs to draw up its budget for a period of 3 years, and in the course of negotiations, there is an agreement on financing the university concerned as a single integrated university, and not as a boredom of some of its constituents, but we already have a clear picture involving the salaries of teaching and technical staff, the costs of carrying out individual studies, investment maintenance, capital investments. So, all that represents the financing of a university and, accordingly, after such a single signing, we have a clear picture and we have no deviations and individual coups towards the state budget by individual components. If at the end of the day you will, at given moments and certain blackmailing positions, one of the constituents is past the Senate's decisions. At the head of this committee is Professor Puhovski, Deputy Professor Chikesh. Furthermore, each university, according to a certain decision, has run for one number of its representatives. All the assembly committee has 24 members, including professors and students. But I mean, I can read you names if you want or I'll deliver them to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42261	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42262	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Minister, I'm really very pleased with the answer to your question, and you know for what reason? It is precisely because we are on track, the answer, that your answer is listed in the basic objectives, the fundamental principles of the Government of Croatia's 2009 mandate programme. – 2011 in which it is clearly entered and determined that Croatia is developing as a state of knowledge, and we all know and we actually agree that knowledge is the only real capital, equally in the education system available for all and on equal terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42263	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. You will agree with me that ports are the strategic interest of every country as well as ours, not just golf courses like we do. For a few years now, the public has wanted to know, who owns the Zadar-based firm "Luka" that got from the state's primary concession? There has been no answer in Croatia so far. But that's why the Slovenian daily "Finance" announced that the majority owner of Zadar's "Luke" is a Slovenian pensioner, the same one that appeared at Terme "Catez", and whose company lacks a single employee and who took over ownership of "Luke" also from a Zadar company that did not own a single employee. To the Slovenian journalist's question she answered,... Slovenian readers mock the text and now propose to their government to buy property from a certain Rose Mlakar pensioner and thus get a way out to the sea in the middle of the Adriatic and without any arbitration. [[The speaker speaks Slovenian, no translation.]] My question is, will the Madam Prime Minister be interested in whose capital, as well as its origins, have taken over "Luke" in Croatia and how did she get into Slovenian hands, or who is the real owner of Zadar's "Luke"?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42265	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42266	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative. Well, here's one part of your question I didn't understand, so then I won't be able to answer that part. But I will answer what I understand. So, part of the question I understood. Who owns it? Well, as far as I know, the owner is a stockholder's company. But if you insist, I can further explain the answer, so I'll be happy to do so. So, all the information that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then me that I can get in that sense I'll give you and what I can tell you if you're alluding very much I'll be open, if you're alluding to any party's relationship with it, then I can say that absolutely HDZ has nothing to do with it. So, the owner of Zadar's "Luke", or Zadar's "Luka" is a shareholder society. And I can tell you that right now. And eventually find out some details. But here's your question and I only have it and I believe it won't misread one thought. Mr. Vice-President, since here is Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Mrinović sitting here with a badge representing, which is advertised by a presidential candidate, since the campaign has begun, since the Government of the Republic of Croatia must, as one of the three pillars of government in the Republic of Croatia, oversee the legality of all of us, or our work, ask if this is allowed in the Croatian Parliament, because then it could be concluded that other members of the SDP, for example, who do not have these badges, are rooting for another candidate? Or imagine that we are members of the government, showed up with badges that we're propagating, or we're advertising candidates of these or those or here's HDZ representatives that they showed up with badges on which to vote for Andrija Hebrang. I don't think that would be good. And I think that since the official campaign has begun to apply the legal rules and I think that in the Croatian Parliament, no presidential candidate should be represented in this way in front of the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42267	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42268	Madam Prime Minister, you don't need to be disturbed by the word "justice" so no matter who stood out for her or who called for her. I'm surprised you don't understand a part of my question, because you and Mr. Pahora understand each other so well. However, we are going to jump and jump on the side, perhaps you have expressed your willingness to answer my question, perhaps in helping you with the Office of the Prevention of Money Laundering. You probably don't know where he is either, because he's hiding somewhere, and no one alive knows where he is or what his function is. But the public also wants to know just because it's a very strange way to take over this Luke. You're saying she's a stockbroker. Yeah, that's right. But the sea and maritime well-being and concession are not in the stock society, but are owned by the state. It is very important to whom the state gives the concession and under what conditions. Also note that just at the time of the sale, two large investments occurred. Connecting the Gagenica along a fast road and also investing in a several million-euro infrastructure, and one of the previous owners flew the car into the air at the time of sale. And the perpetrator has not been revealed to this day.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42269	Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42270	Mr. Vice President, my question is about Croatian membership in the Security Council of the United Nations. Since the end of two years of non-permanent membership in the Security Council is near, we know that our membership expires on December 31st 2009, I would like to refer my question to Minister Gordan Jandrokovic, the foreign minister. How do you ministers assess Croatia's participation in this body so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42271	Minister Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42272	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, sir, I thank you for asking. It comes really just over a month before the non-permanent membership of the Republic of Croatia in the UN Security Council, and I would like to start by saying that it is one of the greatest successes in the international plan that the Republic of Croatia has achieved. The choice was for some a surprise, it was the result of the exceptional effort and the work of Croatian diplomacy and then we had the Czech Republic as an anti-candidate who was then a member of both the NATO Alliance and the European Union. However, Croatia won the vote and was elected a non-permanent member of the Security Council. We can certainly assess membership as extremely successful not because it is only our impression, but because we could hear it from representatives of the Security Council member states, from a whole series of representatives of the United Nations member states and I personally had the opportunity to convince myself of this by talking a few days ago in New York with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who expressed satisfaction with the way in which Croatia worked within the Security Council and the results achieved during that two-year term and achieved. Why can we say that we are satisfied and that this membership has been extremely successful? Because the achievement of the Security Council membership is one of the peaks of each country's external and political action and so is Croatia. The achievement of membership also confirmed our country's international reputation and also confirmed the position of an important member of the International Community. We have used our participation in the Security Council to participate in making the most important decisions regarding world peace and security. I would remind you that this is extremely important for Croatia because Croatia was a country in the 1990s that received international assistance, which was the subject of the then resolutions, the declaration made in the Security Council, and today Croatia is a country that actively participates in decisions concerning others, in decisions concerning world peace, world stability and security. We have also strengthened our co-operation and coordination with the EU member states, with NATO member states, with the United States, through the work of the Security Council, but we have also used membership to deepen relations with other major global countries such as China and Russia. And I would also single out the numerous contacts that gave us this membership at the highest level, so the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and the current Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, participated in the work of the Security Council. And personally, as foreign minister, I took part in the work of the Security Council. There were five working meetings with Security Council Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Therefore, Croatia had visibility and certainly confirmed its international reputation and the status of an important member of the International Community. I would only mention the work and chairmanship of the anti-terrorist committee as one of the most important committees of the Security Council. I would also say that during that two-year term, we have advocated the affirmation of international law, human rights affirmation, the fight against poverty, the fight against war and the promotion and affirmation of principles, dialogue, cooperation, mutual respect and tolerance. And finally, I would say that as a confirmation of our success in the Security Council, it is certainly also a recent decision where our diplomat was elected as a member of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of one of the most important committees of the United Nations and certainly it would not have happened if Croatia had not successfully done this two-year membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42273	Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42274	Here is the answer, undoubtedly, that our membership in the UN Security Council has contributed to Croatia's affirmation, and therefore congratulations should be made to all those who, by their engagement, are ministers and diplomats and the Croatian Government, who have contributed to Croatia's election of the status of a non-permanent member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42275	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42276	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is the Minister of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure to Mr. Calmetti. Mr. Minister, you have recently stated that you are simply unable to control everything that is going on in the Croatian highways, Croatian roads, Croatian railways, Jadrolinija, airports and 20 other companies in the area of your responsibility. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I ask you if you can tell me how many kilometres of highways in Croatia we could have built that you were able to control the work of the Board of Administration and the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Highways where competitions were being arranged in the Office of the State Secretary, consistently assigning jobs, for example the Construction Fund at a multiple price than the market, hired people who, according to their last name, blacked out from sunning instead of being in the workplace. And to keep in mind, I simply damaged the state budget in very coherent and constructive ways. Mr. Minister, is that why you feel responsible and do you intend to resign?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42277	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42278	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, Madam MPs and MPs. I must admit that in some way I expected in this question of yours that you would a little commend me because in the past five, six years it has been in river aglomeration, I will answer your question that you do not think that I will not, made and solved road problems that have not been solved for decades and which have been a truly justified problem traffic not only Rijeka but also the entire region and Croatia. So, from the full profile of the highway to Rijeka to the highway from Rupa to Rijeka or Matulji knot, then the four-way road from Matulja to Diracje, then building a full profile of the road from Diracje to Orehovica whose opening will be sometime before Christmas and we will come there really celebrate because it is indeed one big procedure. Otherwise, the length of that part and only one strip is 8.5 kilometers and the price is a billion kuna. Then a four-way road was built from Orehovica to St. Kuzm which is finished. So now it's a four-way road from St. Kuzm to Crossroad. D404 a very important road for Rijeka and Croatia that connects Luka Brajdica with the Rijeka bypass will be completed at the beginning of the year. You're a Riverain, so you know exactly what it means and how much it means to Rijeka, etc. So I expected a little bit of praise because while I was mayor and while the SDP was in power I often used to commend justifiedly if it were true, it wasn't much, but if I helped Zadar and the Zadarian end I could commend it and if it was one more time or sometimes I would commend it. Therefore, I ask you as a longtime official and a member of the headship, and a councilman, and now the deputy mayor and who did absolutely nothing during that time for Rijeka when you will resign to your post. Now, for miles of highways over the past six years, a 545km highway has been built. I'm proud of it, because it was indeed a powerful construction procedure, a procedure in the construction of the highway. And it's done as much as it could. As much money was made, and how many international public procurements were held in the Croatian highways. There is no command responsibility, dear colleague Jovanovic, and I do not agree to command responsibility. And I said that, and that's exactly what you said, but not me, but not a single minister can control 10 or 12 companies that have their own supervisory boards, which have their own administrations, their own board members, etc., etc. So I repeat, there is no command responsibility, and you know well as the head of the board of parliament, and you commended at one session and the material made by the ministry in terms of the Ministry's anti-corruption programme. You said it was to be presented and you know that I did, and you heard it on that board that I am very actively involved in clearing up irregularities and I have the credit. And you heard that on that board. So I think I'm doing my job well, I think I also have the trust of voters who showed it in the last local elections, where the list I wore both city and county got 65% and 60. So that's what I can tell you. And everything else, here I am asking you not to do any constructions, because I could ask you a question, why don't you grab a little review of the city of Rijeka, so let's see what it says every year that there is, that... spend funds in the city of Rijeka, for example, that public procurement is not respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what the review report says. Or the answer is that the pool that cost 100 million kuna has grown to 400 and isn't finished yet, and the question is when will it be finished? So, I respect your work, but I'm asking you to expand it a little bit more, not just focus one company or one single man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42279	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42280	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I expected you to first warn Mr. Minister who has not answered my question, but has asked me a question as if it were the current time of the city of Rijeka where questions are being asked to the mayor of Rijeka. And not one question I asked, he didn't answer. So my question was how many kilometers of highway in Croatia could we build that Mr. Kalmeta controlled the work of Croatian highways? In the past term of the current government, building a kilometer of highways has jumped from 4 to 12 million dollars, while at the same time the value of real on the market has increased 20%. So, Mr. Minister, we could have built three times as many miles of highways as you built. As far as I'm concerned. You make noise, I'll talk, I'm louder than you. As for the city of Rijeka, Mr. Minister, I am proud to tell you that the most transparent city in Croatia is the city of Rijeka, according to GONG. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, the most transparent city in Croatia is Rijeka, and the main dam against corruption is also the responsibility of transparent authority. If, according to GONG's poll, the Rijeka government has been declared the most open, it is at least corrupt. And colleague Calmeta on your proposal to resign at the mayor's post... And I get a place in the government. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42281	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42282	Minister Shuker, I'm going to ask you a question and because citizens pay dearly the tribute of your policy. Every day, five family homes go to the drum. It's all those who took up bank loans, and then they lost their job, or their wages were cut due to the introduction of the hackers and the increase in VAT, so now they can't pay back the rates of those loans. The banks sell their homes at auction, they end up on the street as homeless. From the moment I'm saying this, from this moment on to the end of the year, it means in the next little over 45 days it's going to sell 230 houses and 54 apartments. All of this is visible from the property's eyewitnesses at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. We have proposed in this House a bill on the prolongation of housing loans in 2009, for citizens who lose their jobs. You turned him down. This brings you direct responsibility because citizens lose their homes and end up on the street. Someone would have been responsible for knowing that he had done evil to these people and lost both his appetite and his dream. My question is, how do you sleep, Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42283	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42284	Thanks for asking. Mr. Trainer, unlike you, I'm sleeping great because I have a calm conscience. And you've obviously been watching news from somewhere in America or somewhere else these days, because what you're saying just doesn't happen in Croatia. It just doesn't happen in Croatia. It is true that there are also problems in the collection of loans and everything, but at least, as far as I know, you may know, but as a minister, I did not get such information, so if you have, please, no Croatian bank has thrown any Croatian citizens on the street. The logical thing is that when you lose your job, you get a series of problems, not just a refund. But if I'm not mistaken in the bankruptcy era that was during your government, and that was your economic policy, hundreds of thousands of people were out of work. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has found itself in a whirlwind of the economic and financial crisis in which the world has also found itself. The whole world. And now look, all international financial institutions, and the European community say that Croatia, unlike many, has managed well and fought the crisis well. So if you want the bank's offer to throw citizens out on the street, and that's what you want with your speech, this government won't let that happen, and you have to be aware of that. If you call on witches, what you do all the time, it won't work either. And if you were to propose a law to postpone the payment of the loan, then the only question is, where would the funds be used to pay interest on those loans? But I repeat, thanks to the fact that monetary and fiscal policy has taken some steps in time, the Croatian financial sector has remained stable, is almost nothing shaken. And that's precisely why our banks can put up with prolongation at this point, let's say, risky loans. You can say whatever you want, and you can scare the Croatian people as much as you want, but unlike you who talk, and you don't argue with anything, this government is taking concrete moves and will take them in the future. What you're saying, you don't even admit the Constitutional Court decisions because they don't fit you. You'd sue, you'd judge, you'd shut down, and that's not what Croatia wants, and no one fought for that kind of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42285	Answer, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42286	... that this is not happening in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The data I have provided are listed in the property register of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and now you claim that there is neither the Chamber of Commerce nor their eyewitnesses in Croatia. You say the crisis hit everything. Yes, but different countries react to that crisis. In European countries, tax burdens are reduced. You're imposing new taxes. You've planted that lock that you're peeling the backs of ordinary people, skin on their backs peeling them. You're not going to introduce a stock tax, you're not going to sell shares. You won't take tax money from those who have it. You take from the railroad, from the teachers, from the workers, from the pensioners. That's your answer. You say the Croatian government has an answer, so it has one, but that's your answer. That response is unfortunately a very bad answer for the majority in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42287	The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is to the Prime Minister. In fact, the management of waste management as well as the provision of conditions for sustainable development is the responsibility of each generation, and the fact that this problem has been shifted from the position of the state to solving units of local and regional administration. The fact, and experience tells us that the whole process is quite ineffective, as well as the fact that in some examples there is both partial and corruption. Given the development potentials that can be exclusively coordinated and systematic activities and, above all, sustainable and systematic waste management, the use of energy potential to improve the state's energy balance, the creation of new employment opportunities, the use of EU pre-accession funds, and also the prevention and presence of abuse and corruption as well as crime. My question is, first of all, is the government ready to take responsibility for itself and define at 4 to 5 regional waste management centres? And secondly, if she's willing to take that responsibility rather than transfer to local and regional administration units, what deadlines is she willing to implement?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42289	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42290	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, yes, the government is ready to take responsibility. Yes, the government has taken responsibility and I think I can say that so far the government has done more than ever, thanks to engagement, but above all, Minister Marin Matulović-Dropulic's expertise, more than ever, since the Republic of Croatia. So the government did, the government did. There are strategic documents about it, but since you're asking very detailed questions in one question several questions, and let me notice that you've read all this from the laptop, then let me answer it in a very detailed way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42291	Thank you, Mr. Korachević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42292	Thank you very much. I don't think it's a negative that I read from the laptop because I don't want to work out of this parade and comedy, but to a very specific problem that's in public, which is waste management, it's the fact that we don't have a systematic solution that we don't have regional centres, the fact that we don't have a whole lot of coverage, the fact that we've transferred this problem to the units of local and regional administrations. And for example, Varazdin, I will tell you where a direct contract selected a partner who has no experience in waste management, the partners who have experience and the lower price were skipped, and in spite of everything else, that partner who directly contracted will get one job that is measured in millions of euros, the state wants and is willing to be a partner. The very fact that on the very day of election to that partner from the city of Varazdin transferred to ownership of the land on which it will take place, he speaks on his own enough. I thank you and expect your written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42293	Thank you. He's going to ask Mrs. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42294	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Milinovic a question. So, Mr. Minister, you've done everything in your power to prevent infertile couples from having children. Those who don't have the money to leave some foreign center, unfortunately, are unlikely to have children. So you condemned them permanently to never feel the joy of parenting. Those who happily have money and go to foreign centers send you postcards with medically supported greetings. Consulate 50 euros, ultrasound 70 euros, suppression 56 euros, hormones 300 euros, stopper 34 euros, procedure 1100 euros, road 250, total not less than 1850 euros. A couple say that to you on the postcard, "Unfortunately, the whole army is here thanks to you." My question is, when you read all these postcards, do you feel at least a little ashamed in front of people who had to go to another country because they wanted to have children?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42295	Thank you. Minister Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42296	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say, my services at the Department of Health were predominant that one of the questions might be that too. Well, I read that postcard on "Evening List," and I saw four of the same manuscripts on four of the same postcards. Asked the public and now I ask those who went to Slovenia, who went in the past ten years to Slovenia to come to the Ministry of Health, to say the minister why they went there. Is it because the past ten years have been a dozen procedures in the Republic of Croatia, so they went looking for help somewhere where the percentage of pregnancy is higher. You can talk about it. These are all praises and support for the new law. But I don't put it in the media. These days I've got 30 of the same postcards that praise the new law. And we can talk here the way you do, but I don't want to. Here's the number. They are the most measured on the Law on Medical Insemination. Hospital for Women's Diseases and Births KBC Zagreb "Petrova", I thank you for asking. The 9th and 10th months last year were 77 procedures. You said from the SDP that medical insemination is forbidden, that there will be no medical insemination in Croatia and 21% success. I'm talking about the 9th and 10th months last year. Now I'm going to tell you the data from the 9th and 10th months this year after the law was passed. Last year 77 procedures, and now 99 procedures. Is that less? Is that a ban? Or is that more like 20, 30%? And the success, last year was 21%, this year 28%. Look how we're gonna get here, but with facts. Here's "St. Spirit" from 29th to 1. 11 last year 22 proceedings. Do you know how many years this year? 40 procedures. Success is the same somewhere. Next year you'll see the budget. 40 million kuna is provided for medical fertilisation procedures in the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking you not to stegmatize those partners, so that you don't make things difficult for them. And it is not true that thousands of couples go to Slovenia after this law. It's the same number as it's been going for the past 20 years. This law, I only said a few. Here's the Diabetes Clinic, "Vol Vrhovec" 80 procedures, 30 to 31% success. So, this law with all these thanks for getting it, but I don't want to give it to the media. But you can read them with me together, talk about couples being satisfied, that there are no more illegal or malfeasances in this very sensitive area. And yet another note for the next financial year has been provided an additional 40 million kuna for medical fertilisation procedures in the Republic of Croatia. I also said when I passed that law, I repeat today. We'll leave in six, seven months with the relevant numbers. These are only two months last year and two months this year since the new Law on Medical Insemination entered, which says exactly what this law aimed at and increased the success of pregnancy and increased the number of procedures. And finally another one. I'm looking for couples who left with these postcards, because there's no signature anywhere, anonymous, you could have written it for me, as some of them could have written it for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42297	Finish the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42298	Let them come to the Ministry of Health to see why they went to Slovenia. The process of freezing egg cells is also successfully implemented in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42299	Thank you. Mrs. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42300	Mr. Minister, I'm asking you to... move a little bit, make it difficult for me to communicate. Thank you very much. Ministers therefore, according to your presentation, you claim that people are crazy about going to spend a thousand 850 euros abroad when our law is so ideal. You know why these postcards weren't signed? Let me tell you something. I didn't throw it at you when you were talking. They are not signed because they speak for many couples who have gone to Slovenia. It doesn't matter if it was written by Pero or Jozo or Anka. So it's about people who are the speakers of those who have to go to Slovenia. You as a minister are obliged to provide, and you well know these figures that you have listed, we will see that by the end of the year, or when one period goes by that it will all go together. You know very well that you have stubbornly passed a law that does not help couples, which makes it difficult for women to be very uncomfortable. So the law that will ultimately prove to be bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42301	Thank you. He's going to ask Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42302	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues. I will ask my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr. Cobankovic. Mr Minister, for the past few years, one of the concerns that has been going through, and it is related to the accession of the European Union, is the issue of agriculture. One of the perceptions of the public is that even fear that at this point in EU accession, agriculture may pay the highest price. Knowing of the finding and the fact that there are numerous incentives, that a number of reforms have been carried out in this regard, and particularly in the deficitary branches of agriculture, and, in addition to the fact that over half of the EU legislation is related to the issue of agricultural and safety of food itself, while knowing that two negotiating chapters are open on agriculture, which we hear are quite well going and are going well, I conclude that so far it has been quite done on the subject. And my question is directly asked to you to comment on what of the measures you've taken so far you're putting in the context of a certain assessment? Also, what is today's assessment of the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture and, accordingly, our ability and willingness to join the European Union, and thus the future of Croatian agriculture within the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42303	Thank you. Mr. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42304	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, allow me to answer your question. I would first of all like to say that Croatian agriculture and, above all, Croatian farmers will not be the ones who will pay the price of Croatian entry into the European Union. Why won't it be? Well, it won't be because there is a common agricultural policy in the European Union that there are significant funds in the European Union that monitor agriculture. And I am free to say Croatian agriculture will be in a better situation by entering the European Union than it is today. For what? Well, first of all, for the reasons that when we talk about and trade in goods, it will no longer happen that a practical part of the subsidized products, highly subsidized products, in both production and export subsidies can end up on our market, as has been the case until some time, until recently. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise and think that you have well noticed that the government has carried out significant reforms in the agriculture sector over the past six years, that it has taken significant measures, that it has gone towards increasing the competitiveness of agricultural production and this increase in competitiveness is seen, I would also say in operational programmes for certain branches of production mainly where we needed to raise production more significantly in the livestock sector, milk, milk production, milk and meat production, and then in pigmeat, in the production of meat and in the part of the raising of year-old plantations in order to stop the fall or reduction of areas mainly by the vineyards that we had continued to fall under the vineyards until 2003. We have been able to stabilize in these six years and have now stabilised somewhere at thirty thousand hectares which I hold will be optimal for the Republic of Croatia. In part of the production of milk, I would like to stress that Croatia has received extraordinary results since it was combined in 2003 and 2009 then we come up with the fact that there is a 25% increase in the purchase of milk or in the numbers of 150 million litres of milk being produced more in Croatia today. There is a similar situation in tovs, but unfortunately, in some segments of production, we do not have enough production and therefore there is significant imports. But when we talk about competitiveness, there is, in any case, a significant place to take and incentives that have increased significantly between 2003 and 2009. In 2003, a billion kunas were paid for the incentives and 3 billion and 500 million kunas will be paid in 2009. Of course, this increase in incentives has also increased the competitiveness of our agricultural production. And finally here I now have to say something, what's often in public in the wrong way is perception and that's the external trade balance, especially when it comes to imports, about excessive imports, then basically everybody's perception of food imports. Fortunately for us, the data on the external trade of agricultural and food products are far more affirmative than the perception itself. Croatia imports but Croatia also has significant exports of food and Croatia at this time when there is a reduction in total exports of about 30 per cent in the part of the export of agricultural and food products, and it will be around 5% at the end of the year. The coverage of exports in part of agricultural and food products will come to 65% this year while the total trade between the Republic of Croatia and the export coverage is at 49.50%. So, for some 15 percent, there is a higher coverage of imports by exporting in part of agricultural and food products. Here we cannot ignore the consumption of food and drink in the tourist offer. If in 2008 total revenue from tourism was achieved 7 billion and 400 million euros, then it is normal for a significant part to stand on the consumption of food and drink and thus... a balanced external trade balance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are indicators showing that Croatian agriculture will be ready to join the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42305	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42306	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your reply. I am glad that you have also highlighted the importance of agriculture in the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia, but also having a special touch and freshness with tourism. If we add this to the conditions of accession to the European Union and the new European market, it is certainly a new opportunity and a new chance for Croatian agriculture in the times ahead. I believe that these words that speak, in fact, about the position of agriculture that has passed under recession conditions in some way have been less furry by respecting this situation, thanks once again for the answer and I believe in better and better days of Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42307	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42308	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. The question concerns protected tenants. These are the unhappy people who have been living in nationalized or confiscated apartments that have been trying to buy them out for decades or two and are more likely to find themselves on the street without any accommodation than they are able to solve their own housing issue. I would like to ask you, Madam Prime Minister, whether you are still in those positions you were in today, when you were literally saying, I quote a phonogram from your debate where you say that none of us can get any political points out of the discussion of this Law on Protected Rentals. I agree, the Parliament must try to pass laws in which any forms of discrimination will not be incorporated. The constitution protects the right to ownership, however it is also clear that the Constitution protects the home, that the family is under the special protection of the state. I have here a book of confessions from young people who would have to move out of the apartments where they were born. It's one truly book that makes a deep impression on anyone who looks at it. I'll read you a few thoughts. These thoughts are directed to all of us, therefore, both to MPs and to the Government. It's very simple, a message from one Lee. Don't do any new injustices, let us buy the apartment and finally start living a man's life worth living, it continues. And I plead, that's your speech, what colleague Matulović Dropulić was talking about to discuss a good one, to do a good analysis, to allow the tenants of the purchase of this apartment they live in. And, of course, he's making fair payments to the owners. This would be in line with the Council of Europe's documents and so on. Do I see you're running out of time, Madam Prime Minister? Or is there at all something in this government's program to help these people, five thousand tens of thousands of tens of them, who are in the right sense words in a deeply ungrateful situation? There's about 20 thousand people living in these apartments right now. I'm trying to convince that fate of theirs I just won't, but I don't think I'm gonna let anyone say that they prefer animals than me, that maybe more should be dealt with by their fate, than by the fate of the Dubrovnik asylum where those unfortunates are located.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42309	Thank you. Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, since you quoted what I said as saying yourself in 2003 as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, I can tell you that I sign absolutely every word of my own because what I said back then, I think today, and it is quite certain that the Government and in solving that, I believe, you will admit, a very complicated problem, will do nothing to make new injustices. So solving one problem can't be based on the fact of any new injustice. What I want to convince you is that we will continue to work under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and all existing regulations. Here I am, of course, still relying on Minister Matulović Dropulić, whom you quoted and which I mentioned in my debate at the Croatian Parliament in 2003, then as an opposition representative. Therefore, in the political life of each of us, I don't think anything can change, no matter what position it is. So are we in opposition or are we in power? So in this case. And here you are, convinced that we will do everything in our power. Of course it is certain that one part of this debate is also used for the purpose of some of your efforts in this period, but it is a good thing for the Croatian Parliament and I have no right to interfere.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42311	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42312	Right, nothing changes in our performances, but the fact is that these people are being thrown out on the street. We have the following situation, that somewhere around 5,000 is the bearer of these tenants' rights, that their apartments are taken over by non-owners, I would say greedy people, shoppers, and each of them, of those merchants, or the vast majority of them bought a social apartment before that for I don't know a few thousand marks. I think we need to help these protected tenants, we need to keep those 5,000 residents in those apartments, and now the question is, how do we let them get to their apartment? If we have the civic courage in the Constitution to change the Institute of Obsolete in conversion, or privatisation, then perhaps in the same way, through the same form we could meet these protected tenants. We allow these people to reach these apartments in a way that has reached 400,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42313	Thank you. The question will be asked by Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42314	Thank you, Mr. President. And I will refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Calmeta. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you a question. Namely, my question will be about the state and appearance of the B1 state road or to translate that we understand each other better, it's about the old Zagorje magistrate. As you know, this road is called the road of death by Zagorci, and we must use it, namely most people are unable to pay the most expensive toll in Croatia and thus use the Zabok-Zaprešić highway. Let me remind you, the old Zagorje highway was built in the late '50s, so in the time of the wagons. This old Zagorje highway is driven by a large number of vehicles, especially as I have already said in a situation where, in order to travel on the highway to Zagreb, it is necessary to allocate about 400 to 500 kuna per month to pay for the highway. The profession says the road needs to be reconstructed after 30 years, if I'm not mistaken. So this old Zagorje lady of ours has passed half a century. The reconstruction did not occur, except in one small part of 4 kilometers, it is the link Great Trade-Zabok. My question, Mr. Minister, is: who is responsible for the current state and appearance of the old Zagorje highway? Is the reconstruction project built? If it is, what does it contain? And of course the most important thing, when will the reconstruction of the old Zagorje highway be realized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42315	Thank you. Mr. Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42316	Madam representative, I agree mostly with you, both with your exposure and with your question. And I'm familiar with the situation at the old Zagorje master's office. And not to go into the history of all this now, you know well to be projected, that the increased traffic on it you said yourself, we know for what reason, no matter what the government made a decision a few years ago to take toll on the Zagreb-Macelj highway, to give a discount down to the local population etc. But anyway, that road is loaded, it's bad, and I confirm what you said. But I would also like to say that when it comes to this parallel Zabok-Krapino road which is also the wish of the Krapina resident, so that we do not use the highway, then the Zabok-Krapin highway would be less used, if it were designed, and we will do everything we can to make sure that as soon as possible, clearly in accordance with opportunities and financial opportunities, it begins. As far as the old Zagorje highway is concerned, reconstruction plans and enhanced restraint are being done to be more accurate, strengthened restraints and extremely important, burdened and as you said, I agree, bad roads, so here and not because of this issue, but I am glad that you have updated it, so we will certainly go to major maintenance operations next year through various programmes on the Zagorje, old Zagorje masteral.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42317	Thank you. Mrs. Danica Hursa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42318	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'd like to get this answer in writing. In fact, the plan for the reconstruction of this road was in the government's plan in 2005 and 2008 and unfortunately nothing happened. Advantage was given to the same road in the carlovina county. You encouraged me by mentioning this Zabok-Krapino road, it's really necessary. Besides that road, I would remind you that it is necessary to reconstruct and electrify the Zaprešić-Zabok railway, and about the fast road Oroslavje-Popovac I also want to hear or get a written answer. These are the roads that life means to my Krapina-Zagorian County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42319	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42320	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Madam and Mr. Minister. I refer my question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic, given his last trip to the Gulf States, so Oman, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, as well as the fact that investors from these countries are also significantly present in the European economy and economy of the United States, so I wonder if in the talks that you have acquired the sympathy of these investors for investing in Croatia and what opportunities it is to attract investors from the Gulf countries to invest in the Croatian economy, I think that would be quite significant. Is there a possible bureaucratic obstacle because often in conversations that I personally conduct around the world at various meetings, questions are raised precisely by barriers that exist, administrative barriers like... the regime, etc., for potential investment as one type of obstacle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, in this case, are there obstacles in this sense to red tape and is there an interest of investors from those countries to invest in Croatia? We think Croatia is absolutely perspective on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42321	Thank you. Mr. Jandrokovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42322	I thank you, Mr. President. In addition to the main foreign-political priorities that we achieve through NATO participation, through almost EU membership, through action in UN institutions, through active regional policy in the area of Southeast Europe, Croatian diplomacy is developing strongly and the economic component of its action and in this context there has been this visit to the GAULF countries. I responded to a call I received to visit Qatar, Oman and the United Arab Emirates. It is a region that is not well known in Croatia, and it is certainly the region which is currently the most prospective and prosperous probably in the whole world. It's about countries of great wealth, strong growth and development, for example. I will say Qatar has planned a 12% GDP growth for this year and they are not satisfied with the economic situation and the financial crisis. Also, Oman and the United Arab Emirates are growing at high rates, and these are countries that are very badly affected by the economic crisis. Representatives of the Ministry of Tourism and then our Agency for the Promotion of Investments and Investments in Croatia participated in the visit. I was also represented by the Chamber of Commerce and representatives of 15 Croatian companies interested in economic co-operation and partnership with companies from those countries. We also held three economic forums in Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. The response of companies from those countries was also very good, even pleasantly surprised me. They know Croatia, they know our market. Many prominent senior officials visited Croatia or officially, but also unofficially. They spent their summer holidays there, so it's for example. The Ottoman Sultan spent 3 weeks on the Adriatic, which is not known enough, but certainly has very positive impressions of Croatia and there have been several ministers and are very interested in both investment and cooperation in all segments of mutual interest with Croatia. Croatia has a particularly interesting cooperation in the field of construction. I'd point out that he's in Qatar, for example. The "Constructor" already present, to do a major crossing outside the capital, practically in the desert, it's one big investment of over 220 million dollars. The "Constructor" does this very successfully and thus has broken through the ice and opened the door to other Croatian builders and I must say that emir catarically told me that Croatian businessmen and Croatian entrepreneurs, especially in the construction segment, are welcome in Qatar because the experiences they have with us are very good. In addition to construction sector builders with me were representatives of oil and gas companies, so oil and gas research equipment, which had certain contacts, for example. Geophysics has concluded one deal, assessing its value at approximately 30m euros with a Saudi company. So there is certainly room for Croatian entrepreneurs there, but there is also an interest for their parties to work and operate in Croatia, especially in the tourism segment. They're interested in the use of Croatian ports. What they have really complained about are certain problems with lower-level bureaucracy. I told them that political will exists, that there are no obstacles to their investment. However, their experience so far is not entirely positive and I think that we should remove these prejudices that exist towards capital coming from these countries and that it is also welcome in the Republic of Croatia. They asked me a question of the visa regime, Croatia is harmonising its visa regime with the Schengen regime. Here's one more sentence, so we can't lift visas for those countries, but we can speed up the procedure. This is what we will do and I announce very soon the opening of diplomatic representation in one of these countries so that those who wish to travel to Croatia from tourism initiatives or because of their jobs will be easier and more accessible to get a Croatian visa.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42323	Thank you. Mr. Matusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42324	Thank you. From your answer, Mr. Minister, it is clear that there is a great mutual interest in co-operation, economic consequences I am sure that will be quite at home, and in Dubrovnik they feel good, visiting an apartment that left a good trail down there, I would say in good terms during his stay. But what really matters is that these bureaucratic obstacles are really going to be reduced, so that this flow of money and people are really what color is, because it's really in mutual interest. The more you say this part around the port is very interesting to everyone, because Croatian ports are the nearest ports where exporters can communicate with all of Central Europe and with the Baltic countries and in fact with all of Europe. I therefore believe that this position of geostrategic Croatia is extremely important for these countries as well. In that sense, support for everything you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42325	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Biserka Vranic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42326	Thank you, Mr. President. My question was addressed to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. And it refers to a problem which is currently present and about which the Croatian public is informed, which is the company Vortex, which these days intends to slowly fire 2,000 and 200 workers. I'm interested in whether the government is preparing a proposal, a programme or some sort of recovery to prevent more than a thousand women from being sent to the Employment Service, because we know that in the textile industry, 90% of the workforce are women? Is something getting ready? Is there any kind of recovery planned or any other aid that would make to the textile industry that is now on its knees? If this Vortex industry is in a situation that really has no choice, then we have nothing to talk about other textile industries, such as the Long Resa cotton industry like the Veti in Jakanja and like the Međimurje Tricottage "Chakovec". I'd like an answer about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42327	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42328	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Representative. I fully agree with what you've said and here's a very specific answer. So, of course the government is trying in all ways to help, of course in agreements and talks with the board members and I think I can say that we are close to a solution. Of course, the government within and I always repeat it, always within my capabilities, but I will mention that the government's efforts have been lifted by the bank's blockade. I think that's very important. And here I am announcing in the broader context of your question, announcing a very recent meeting with all those in Croatia who can in any way help solve problems in the textile industry. So, I'm preparing, it'll probably be next week. I'll call a meeting and call union representatives. All members of the government who in any way can participate in solving ultimately the problem, but certainly also representatives of these companies who still have problems today. And I also agree with you that we must all help the textile industry survive in Croatia together. We have these very specific suggestions, but I don't think it's time for me to give the details now, until things are done...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42329	Thank you, ma'am. Pearl Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42330	Thank you very much for your answer. I appeal to you because on several occasions you have pointed out that you are particularly sensitive to the problem and employment of women, to their status in society, to the other rights that are really threatened with this and I really expect that on behalf of the Government and your personal name you make sure that this industry and we help or that we find some other solution for these workers who have lost their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42331	Thank you. It is Mr Dragan Vukic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42332	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Ministers. I refer my question to the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mr Tomislav Ivić, as regards scholarships for children of Croatian defenders. And that is, will scholarships from the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War be awarded in 2010? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42333	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Ivić, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you very much for this matter. I can say that the Scholarship Fund has been working more than successfully for three years and that so far the right to a scholarship has reached more than 20,000 students and that almost 120 million kuna has been allocated for that purpose for the last three years. It is about the rights that Croatian defenders, children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, and children of HRV and children of volunteers of Homeland Work. Fund funds come from a third of the Croatian Defence Fund's profits. Last year, it was almost 70 million kuna. And by the way, there was also a competition for school, or academic 2009, 2010 which ended on November 16th, so three days ago. The requests have been processed. About 14,000 requests have arrived, and our estimates this year are that about 10,000 students, students and graduates will be eligible for a scholarship. It is about scholarships for students of 400 kuna, for students of thousands of kuna, and recognition of the costs after the graduation study of up to 7 thousand kuna. So it's about a fund that is for a scholarship and that fully justified its existence. However, these figures, which I initially pointed out, have so far been used by more than 20,000 students and students by this fund for their regular education, are best confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42335	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42336	Thank you. I'm satisfied with the answer, and I'm not looking for any written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42337	Thank you. Mrs Ivanka Roksandic will ask the following question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42338	Thank you, Mr. President. I will also refer my question to Minister Tomislav Ivić but from another area. In fact, I often help an association in the town of Sisak very often, it's called "Adela" and care for the victims of domestic violence. He runs one of the safe houses. At the end of last year, therefore at this time, co-financing contracts have been signed for exactly the counselling and shelter for victims of domestic violence. Since this is a very sensitive issue, I would like to know the ministers what else you have done on this issue and what you intend to do in 2010 and whether there is a possibility that this funding and co-financing of most of these safe houses can be expanded, as we know the financial situation. And I also ask you if you have managed to sort of agree with the local community, so with cities, municipalities, and mainly with the counties that they, through their programmes, might be involved in co-financing of this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42339	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42340	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. In 2007 the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a new National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence for the period 2008 to 2010 and that the 4th chapter of the shelter and support of victims of domestic violence provides for the creation of conditions for a systematic and permanent solution to the need for care, legal and institutional protection of victims of domestic violence, which implies and the creation of financial assumptions for the operation of all organised forms of protection for victims of domestic violence, which, apart from state bodies, are holders and units of local and regional self-government and that on 25 November 2008, on the Day of Fight against Violence, the Vice-President and Minister signed the Treaty on Co-financing of the Work of Five Tips and Asylum for Victims of Violence in Istria County, Zagreb, Brod-Posavina and Karlova County, and that this contract regulated and the financing of these shelters, namely 30%, 30% of the Governments and 30% of the Governments, respectively, and 30% of the Governments are funded by the Governments, respectively, and 30% of the Governments, and 30% of the Governments, and 30% of the Governments, respectively. The ministry is considering funding opportunities in 2010 and has called for shelters in Split-Dalmatia, Primorje-goranska, Zadar, Sisak-Moslavina, Vukovar-Srijem and Bjelovar-Bjelovar County for a project proposal to the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity in order to co-finance the shelter in those counties in 2010. So I can say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and especially the Prime Minister then, has done a great deal to sensitise the public for this very sensitive issue as a key prerequisite and for its successful resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42341	Mrs. Rocksandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42342	Thank you, Minister. It is particularly important to hear that you have sent this invitation to this shelter that works for my county in Sisak-Moslavina County and I say that I have been following their work for two years, I am really helping, that a large number of volunteers have been involved, through various humanitarian actions we are helping, indeed the shelter is doing very well, and I think that this kind of sensitization of the public and help contributes much more precisely to the problem of domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42343	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42344	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers and ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. In this year, therefore, the year of the crisis in which the country's major savings is being reported will spend around 135 million kuna on an administrative apparatus more than in 2008. In fact, we even have more employees. The Minister of Health has nearly 300 more employees, Minister Schuker around 270, Minister Pankretic 160 and in the period from July 2008 until today when we were shaken by the most severe crisis and when tens of thousands of people lost jobs, the government hired almost 100 new employees. According to the Ministry of Administration's assessment, almost 19,000 people are now working for the ministry and today it will be discussed that the Croatian government will get two new vice presidents, which will have a total of five vice presidents which do not have some much bigger and richer countries in Europe. My question, therefore, is the specific question of how much this costs to the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia who pay for all the heavy burdens you have further introduced and how it fits into the savings programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42345	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42346	Mr. President. Mr. Representative, all we do is fit into the government of the Republic of Croatia's savings programme as I believe and you remember when the government suggested that, for example, the salaries of civil servants, state and public return to the level of 2008, so that it would decrease by 6% precisely for the reasons you mention then you and your party were fiercely opposed. Therefore, we certainly do whatever is necessary and what must be done. All the employment that is happening at this time, as you know, we have brought a ban on employment and what will happen will be solely due to the strengthening of administrative capacity because of the completion of the negotiations for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, so that the data you represent in one piece is not as accurate as those you have accused the Government of inaccuracy of using EU funds. As you know, none of what you have recently and in fact brought to the public very recently about competitions for the use of EU funds was true. It was simply a matter of coordination, and I believe that you have read very harshly the European Commission on your allegations that you presented at the press conference, so those who were not correct and were again in the service of accusing the Government of the Republic of Croatia of doing something illegal and that it is certainly incompetent. You, of course, as an opposition representative have the right to your own opinion, but here I believe that you will believe that everything we will do in the future and then, in line with next year's budget, will be on the line of savings but certainly no denying of what it calls administrative capacity is that we could complete the negotiations. And finally I want to say, here's to your question, since I often hear and from your party announcements about how Croatia would solve all its problems if, for example, it did. She fired 50 grand, 70 grand, and there were these announcements from the state administration to solve all the problems. Of course, the government is not irresponsible, the government won't do it, the government is insisting on reforming the state administration, but certainly taking care of every man, his destiny, every job, and so it will be as it is today tomorrow, and the next year, 2010. Therefore, in conclusion, here you can be sure that we will do everything possible to use any employment that will possibly follow exclusively for Croatia to finish its job and to be a member of the European Union tomorrow, so 28 at the same table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42347	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42348	Thank you very much. Dear President, let's get this straight. In short, I would like to ask a written reply if it is possible around the costs of the state administration, including now and what we will get two new vice presidents. We can do this a little bit in a row. As far as the European Union Fund is concerned, we will talk again soon. Unfortunately, I think some things will surprise you very quickly. So I expect that you will then act on this, when some more things come out, today what is actually happening. But second thing, I wasn't talking about being fired. In fact, on the other hand, why was it still employed at the time of the total crisis? No one said in my question that you should fire 50 grand, but there was no point in hiring a thousand and 100 at the time when tens of thousands of people lost their jobs. Otherwise, the European Union, if we were to sum up how many of your ministers, all the representatives in the media and here talked about employment for the European Union, Croatia should today have the most efficient, most European, the highest quality state administration, better than one Germany, but unfortunately we do not have it. In fact, under the cover of the European Union, we, the front of the European Union, had purely unmotival employment according to the principle of similarity. And these are the problems that brought us to one part and where we are today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42349	Thank you. The word has to ask Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42350	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. My question was addressed to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence and reads, given our soldiers on peacekeeping missions, I would ask that we recently marked the participation of Croatian soldiers in peacekeeping missions. We know that until today, except in Afghanistan, where they are deployed in several different places, we have more than 10 UN missions around the world. There have been speeches for both security and logistics and financial reasons for the possible rounding of forces in Afghanistan, while reducing the number of missions we are participating in. Is the MORH considering a proposal to reduce the total number of missions we are participating in and round up forces in the next period or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42351	Mr. Mate Raboteg, the secretary of state will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42352	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Mr. Representative, that you mentioned we just recently marked the 10th anniversary of the participation of the Republic of Croatia in international peace missions at the Croatian Military University. And over the past 10 years, we have recorded a constant increase in the number of members of our armed forces participating in these peacekeeping missions. As for the United Nations peacekeeping missions, we note a significant increase during 2008, where at that time, compared to the previous 2007, the number of members of the peacekeeping, armed forces in the United Nations peacekeeping missions was almost tripled, from 46 members to 133. We have this thanks primarily to our participation in the United Nations peace mission on Golan, in a way that gives new quality to the participation of our armed forces in peacekeeping missions where we first participated with a compact unit of 95 people. And so we have a very noticeable role there. You also know that for the 6th year we have been participating in Afghanistan, a NATO-led peacekeeping mission, and also since 2008, we have been participating in a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Chad and Central Africa, and recently with, at the beginning of this year, the Republic of Croatia has been involved in our closer environment, so it participates in the KFOR Peace Mission in Kosovo, in one quite complex operation where we participate with two helicopters and 20 members and we give direct support to the United States, France, Portugal and many others. Our Croatian Navy also joined the European Union Atalanta mission along the coast of Somalia in preventing piracy. Now, let me move a little closer to your question about reducing our participation in the United Nations peace missions. So, by estimating our priorities, and since we have met some of our strategic goals, we have become a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, becoming a member of the NATO Alliance, etc., we are indeed accessing a gradual reduction in the number of UN missions during 2009, so that by the end of 2009, we will close the mandate in 5 UN missions, such as Burundi, Haiti, the Coast of Whiteness, Chad and Georgia, and this is practically reducing the number of our members by abolishing these missions by 25. Currently in the United Nations missions, we have 126 members. However, we have sent a proposal to this Visa House to continue the participation of our members in the United Nations peacekeeping missions, for the period 2010-2012, and where, in that period, we have now been destructively determined that we will have all eight UN peacekeeping missions with approximately 143 members of the armed forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42353	Thank you. Finish the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42354	Of course, that number is so large as it is due to the retirement of the mission at the Golan High.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42355	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42356	So, yes. So the answer is we're reducing the number of missions of the United Nations, we've defined 8 of them, and this year we're breaking up with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42357	Thank you very much, she's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42358	As far as Afghanistan is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42359	Thank you. It was very exhausting. Here's Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42360	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm pleased with your answer, and I want all our soldiers to return happily to their homes and be worthy of what they did in the Homeland War in the military duties that behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42361	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic will ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42362	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Dr. Darka Milinovic. Surely, Mr. Minister, the public's attention is in the final focus of the pandemic flu. In addition, the question of fellow Matkovic and of course your answer. It also encourages the preparedness of the health system. But in the shadow of the event, a significant gathering in Plitvices, where you gathered colleagues from the region, of course, including colleagues from Austria, Hungary and Macedonia. This went a long way less noticeably, but important data was mentioned, the World Bank's latest and data on the state of health of the Republic of Croatia. So please comment on the latest information and what the World Bank has to tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42363	Thank you. Mr. Minister Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed there was an impressive one, I will tell the assembly, where all fellow ministers from the region, were strengthened... Hungary and Albania. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] And it came out in the media that, 10 days ago, a World Bank report which in some way criticised the health system of the Republic of Croatia that health indicators are good, but with a high growth in debts of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. It's a two-, two-and-a-half-year-old report, and it's exactly why we went to health care reform. And some media reported that it was a World Bank report given the health system after the start of the health system reform. What the World Bank has said is very commendable about the health system of the Republic of Croatia that the only health system in Europe that is currently in place. If I could answer, thank you very much. That this is the only health system in Europe that, even in times of crisis and recession, does not create new obligations. Here's some information from the World Bank. The expected life span of 76 years, comparable to many members of the European Union. That Croatia has better health outcomes than many members of the European Union, and what is important, which is often mentioned that patient satisfaction with the Croatian health system, I stress these are World Bank data 3.63, so the assessment is very good, and we are better than Albania, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Montenegro, Poland, Romania and Slovakia. I'll mention one more thing. Until one year ago, the Croatian health system generated a new debt between the 27 million and 30 million kuna each month. For a year now, we have been permanentally reducing this debt, and after 15 years and during the crisis, the recession is the first year when it will not be necessary to resuscitate the Croatian health system, while raising the level of health care in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, rationalization within the system has also contributed. I will mention colloquially, in fact not Colloquial but true, Croatia paid the same number of medicines last year for 500 million kuna less than it reduced the rate of sickness, so here are the only two items that rationalized a billion kuna. And for the sake of all, and therefore health system reform, and rationalisation for the first time in the Republic of Croatia after 15 years will not be necessary to resuscitate the state budget this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42365	Thank you. Mr. Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42366	I thank Mr. Minister, and indeed encourage these data on health indicators, but also these moments with regard to financial consolidation which is the fundamental objective of the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Health. But I can't remember in this place the same time last year here in this High House, when they broke a spear about reforming the health system. So I ask you all my dear colleagues and colleagues what today would be and how we would be prepared to wait for this pandemic and how we would set ourselves up. That's why I congratulate you on all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42367	Thank you. Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42368	Here's a respected minister of science, education and sports, I'd like to ask a question about the topical question about textbooks. So I would ask you, given that there was a question here today and as if it should not be put on the agenda, that if something is in the Bookbooks Act,... News this Law on textbooks brings about the renewal of elections and textbooks, and how should the new Law ensure a reduction of the expenditure on textbooks? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's all parents are interested, I think the public is very much following it. Here, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42369	Thank you. Minister Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42370	Your Honor, Your Honor. Of course, this law will certainly be full of speeches in the Croatian Parliament in the coming days, but a very short and very precise new legal solution in the most democratic way chooses textbooks that will be applied in schools. Which means that in the first round, that textbook that is harmonised, the proposal of a textbook that is in line with the curriculum and the programme for individual classes in a particular school enters a wide competition on whose quality is voted by all teachers of the course in the Croatian education system, therefore in primary schools or in secondary schools. After that, those textbooks that received a minimum of 10% support from all teachers in the Republic of Croatia for the subject enter the final round. In this final round, this virtually speaking of 10 textbooks that have originally entered the teacher's public evaluation, enters the finals, say, four textbooks. So of the four best in the second round, the ministry then calls on publishers to declare the price of the textbook is chosen by two of the cheapest. It is entirely wrong to choose textbooks based on price. The textbooks are chosen from only the best textbooks based on price. After that, this law also provides for the adoption of a textbook standard which fully clearly defines what the textbook is, and what the auxiliary teaching means that so far when the textbooks were purchased in the package were up to 70% of the total number of library materials bought for a particular item are completely free on the market, of course with the content contained in them and teachers recommend their use, but also for their use then also bear responsibility. Therefore, neither will what is being done nor what is not being done. It's the roughest newspaper. There is, of course, a whole series of details that will be spoken of. Of course we also predicted the possibility of two or three textbooks showing up with the same price. These provisions in the new bill exist in a way that addresses these problems. I must say, there was also a round table the other day. I'm surprised by some of the attitudes that were expressed here. Let's just say I'm surprised by the attitude that came from the publishers that this law supports corruption. I don't know who's going to corrupt the directors, or the principals, or teachers. I can assure you that the government will certainly not do that. I don't think he'll do it to his students or his parents. It is equally an interesting thesis which has been said that this is a bad law, but that so far all the laws have been very bad. And it's a bad law because this law was not directly attended by publishers. And yet I can only answer that in all these bad previous laws the publishers directly participated in writing these legal solutions. Therefore, I am fully convinced and responsibly arguing that this law introduces order into teaching policy and, in general, regulation of normal costs and cost of costing a textbook.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42371	Thank you. Mr. Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42372	Here I am thanking you for your answer and I believe that this second part, when the textbooks are chosen, and when they are longer, will be worth a lot of support and that it will certainly be cheaper to get textbooks and cheaper education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42373	Thank you. As finally the last one will ask Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42374	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to refer my question to Mr. Prime Minister Damir Byse, Minister of Tourism. We are all aware after a successful tourist season, I believe that both colleagues and colleagues are as satisfied as all tourist workers and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that by drawing the line after this season we can only congratulate both the Ministry and Minister Bajs on the well-prepared and prepared work. However, our Croatian tourism is mostly developed in the coast of Istria to Dubrovnik, so I am interested in what I believe is also an interest in the general public, i.e. the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and all of us here, in which way I think the Ministry of Tourism also develops that part of continental tourism that has great potential. And I think it would be as well to hear a question as the minister was present at a tourism fair in London, as one of the biggest fairs in the world, which is to conclude from one such fair, or what are the forecasts for the next tourist season? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42375	Mr. Damir Byce, Minister of Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42376	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for asking, Mr. Parliamentarian. I'll say you're absolutely right. This year was difficult, demanding and uncertain thanks to the sector's natural resilience, but also to the government's measures, this season ended successfully in Croatian tourism and we are indeed among the best in the Mediterranean. What needs to be underlined, however, is the fact that in the programme of the government and the programme of the ministry itself, it says that as far as tourism development is concerned, tourism will continue on programmes and on the continent, as well as on tourism underdeveloped parts of Croatia. The fact is that only 5% of total results are achieved on the continental part. We have a dozen new programmes, such as the Green Barrel, such as Tourism through the regions and many others that go for it to develop as the first content on the continent, to help those who want to invest their money and efforts in this kind of activity and to create, of course, accommodation and other capacities. What encourages me is that we did it this year, and that interest is twice as much as last year, and that's something to say hello. Croatian tourism should indeed have one longevity throughout 365 days a year, but also, in principle, must be present everywhere in Croatia. And it's a nice way to be able to place their own products through this simplest way of placing tourists who came into that segment. As for next year, I can stress that it is expected to be something better than this year. However, we all described this year as the year in which it is best that it is now actually finished. So the minuses that are large, the mean minus the world's minus 8%. When we look at, of course, some of the European competitors, they are many already. Greece is at minus 22%, Spain at minus 10, etc. Of course the result of Croatia is positive. But I've said it before, and I've pointed it out. We don't need to get carried away with the thought that it's going to be easy in 2010 or away. The forecasts for Europe are zero, maybe plus one and the situation in which we are and requires us to be too active. The government and ministry have already launched measures for 2010. We are the timely and first practical in the Mediterranean and we will continue with a series of measures that will continue with visa waiver and beyond. Therefore, we expect a difficult year in 2010 but the year in which Croatian tourism will enter is ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42377	Thank you. Mr. Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42378	I thank Mr. Minister for this exhaustive response and I wish only a lot of happiness in all the projects and in preparation for the next tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42379	Thank you very much. We ended up with the current in the morning. I would like to inform you that we will proceed with the meeting at 15.00 hours with agenda points on a proposal to vote in favour of Vice-Presidents and Ministers. I ask the MPs to bring the keys, because we will vote afterwards, after the debate. And I'll see you at 3:00 with these agenda points. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, we move to debate on the agenda of the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 223. Rules of Procedure. I suggest we conduct a united debate on the first three points. These are, firstly, a proposal to show Mr. Darka Milinovic, Minister of Health and Social Care for the behaviour of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, a proposal to show confidence in Ivan Shuker, Minister of Finance and to act as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and a third proposal to show confidence in Mr. A Đuri Popiku for acting as Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. You received the motions by mail. Please, if we agree to discuss all three points of the agenda unitedly, then he would ask the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to give a preliminary explanation of the proposal. Here you go, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42381	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see before you is a proposal for the appointment of two Deputy Prime Ministers, Mr Shuker and Mr Milinovic. Also a proposal for the appointment of the new Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Djura Popijac. I'm talking about their résumés, about what they've done in life and what they've done, which I think is also very important to say, I'm not going to talk about right now because you have those resumes in front of you, so I believe they're respectable enough to be one of the reasons why you're going to raise your hands for these people. It means two vice presidents and a minister of the economy. What I want to say in the opening, too, because there have been these days and issues in the public, of course the Government has to answer all questions, is why are there two other vice-presidents of the government? So simply because here it is from the start of the HDZ government's mandate, it means here since the last elections in 2007. HDZ as the strongest party had two Deputy Prime Ministers. So that was Vice President Damir Polancec and I in the previous term. After we appointed a new government, or you trusted the new government, we had one vice president from that quota. Vice President Polancec has left, therefore, I propose two vice presidents, so Mr. Milinovic and Mr. Shuker. What is certainly equally important is the proposal for a choice, i.e. to appoint a new Minister of Economy. After going to the economy minister, Mr. Damir Polancec, I held a series of talks with a number of people, primarily in consultations on a possible new minister. These consultations lasted for some longer, for some shorter ones, but I must say that it was certainly one of the facts and that the Croatian Parliament was not sitting and I thought it would be good for the new session to decide anyway for the new candidate. So for the proposal to you, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. I have heard many times along with you over the past years about the need to do everything to strengthen the economy in the Republic of Croatia and that, of course, it is necessary to give opportunity to those who have experience, who know the opportunities well. I have to tell you about these times and troubles, so the difficulties that the economy is facing as a whole, as well as certain branches. That's why I think this proposal to choose Mr. Djuro Popiac as Minister of Economy is good because if there is some fact then it is the fact that Mr. Popiac does not only know well the problems of the Croatian economy but he himself has been actively involved in many processes, I can testify about those who, as one of the partners, also took part in the government, so many processes to change things. I am also now saying this as a longtime member of the Economic Social Council in whose work Mr. Djuro Popijač has been involved for many years, indeed and actively very realistic and I am sure that Mr. Popijac's entry, I speak very openly, in the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not be a favor to anyone but rather to the development, the position of the economy in Croatia, but also to protect every job, the protection of workers and their rights. Because to whom it would be more in the interest of the Croatian worker to live well than to the businessmen, employers, so to those who depend on the workers, to us and you and the Government, certainly in the exceptional interest of strengthening the economy and, of course, the businessmen, because then ultimately it means a better life for those workers, means a better life for all of us. I asked Mr. Poppie to propose his proposal, and what I got was really satisfactory. It's on the trail of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme that was presented to you in July. The programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that you have accepted and on the trail of this programme is this program that I will believe in very quickly because we have little time, it could be said that we do not have it at all when it comes to solving some problems, so that Mr. Poppie will show that it was really the right choice. What I expect together with you is, above all, the quick completion of this great job of privatising the shipyard. So, quick finish of that job, let's go to the second round. However, it is certain that within the government, so first of all in the resolution ministry, we must draw up plans and I call them B or C, so plans in case this job in one part is not what we expect it to be. I certainly repeat once again to preserve these people's jobs, to preserve their existence and the future of them and their children. What I also expect is to solve the major problems that we have talked about today at the current morning in certain branches. For example, textile industry. So, Mr. Drinker, the new minister will certainly have literally zero hours, let alone the introduction to business. He's got problems from the first second. I already mentioned working in the Economic Social Council. I must say that his role in this work was truly constructive, so here are the last questions that are currently current in view of the protest of not all, several unional central ones, meaning work on amending the Labour Act. I have to say that we lost 15 months literally trying to agree on the necessary amendments to the Labour Act. These are the changes we must make in order to adapt this law to the European Union guidelines. We agreed 15 months ago to make only three changes and nothing else. On the trail, I repeat my adaptations to the European Union guidelines for closing chapters. So that's one of the criteria for closing chapters. Here is the role of Mr. Drinker. Of course, when you're trying to solve a problem, you're first of all expected from partners who are most interested in trying to come up with a compromise, in this case they were trade unions and employers. Since this did not happen until the end, the government of course had to make a decision. We have made a decision that is on the trail of actually compromise, but with that decision and I ask you to pay attention to that decision, with that decision and the conclusion that within 60 days from the moment these changes are made, continue to work and work first and foremost on the trail of the new Labour Act. By the way, we agreed a year ago and more that after we had done these necessary amendments to the Labour Act, we were going to make new ones. And according to that plan, the new Labour Act should be completed by the end of this year. So we lost a whole year because we couldn't make a deal. This is the compromise now. He does not really harm the workers by my belief. He is better than the current provisions of the Labour Act in all parts of him, including the one about working for a certain time. Because I'm only going to mention one detail, because so far, so it's three years, three years old, where an employer can have someone employed for a certain time. But so far it's been to the same jobs, and now in these changes we suggest that it be on different jobs. I therefore mention this in the context of the proposal for Mr Djuro Popiac to be elected Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. I think that indeed, and certainly we will be able to control together what the minister is doing, first of all we in the Government, but then you as MPs and MPs, will not be able to object that he has favored or favoured large capital, because that would not be acceptable in the first place for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. From the programme presented by Mr. Popioč to the menu that I suggest you support today, among other things here is the new investment cycle, meaning all those measures and jobs that we will have to do to further strengthen investment in the Republic of Croatia. Something that I particularly like about what I have talked about and many other members of the government, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, too, must simply change in one part our approach to work and philosophy in general. And it will be one of the issues of one minister's work, so it is certainly a different approach to obligations and burdens. I mean, of course, the role of the union in general in Croatia, but also in the role of employers, everyone must include the government, of course, as a third social partner, to carry their share of the burden, but also my part of the responsibility in the times of the crisis in which we live. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there are many more new proposals amongst others, and this is on the trail of recent proposals for what we will and how we will do with privatisation, with the Croatian Privatisation Fund. We will propose a new model in this sense, but also here on the trail of labour rights protection, strengthen the role of the Economic and Social Council, strengthen the role of the social partnership, and that may be what I like most about Mr. Poppie's proposals. Because he is just pointing out the strengthening of the social partnership as one of the foundations of his work. But I also think it is important to connect with all of this, or rather to bind Croatian education in the Republic of Croatia, so that young people are truly educated in those occupations that will allow them to find work tomorrow and to truly live with dignity and dignity from their work. Here, ladies and gentlemen, these are briefly some of the reasons why I think Mr. Drinker is a good choice. And as for the two vice presidents, so Mr. Schucker and Mr. Milinovic, I think it's clear, but here's what I'm going to say. Mr. Ivan Shuker will be in charge and it will literally be from today that, with the Minister of Finance, he unites everything that can be classified in the broadest sense into the economy. So, we have an extremely large number of opportunities that we have certainly not yet used enough, so from agriculture through industry, but certainly to tourism imported in different ways, because quite certainly in this sense if you single out only tourism and agriculture Croatia can become literally branded tourism countries in which the table of tourists will offer what is organically grown, harvested and placed on tables. Here's one of our ideas. So, unifying everything. Hard work on that unification and work, on the strength of the economy from the first second. And as for Minister Milinovic, whom I propose to vice-president of the government, his work is equally difficult. Minister Milinovic is the minister of health and social care. In our opinion, however, there is an enormous amount of room to settle the entire welfare system. I'm looking at it, of course, in the context of the fact that since January 1st 20th, the OIB will finally function almost in its fullness. I think that will open up new opportunities for strengthening social support to all levels of those who really need it and, of course, by subtracting if you want those who are hiding behind different screens and trying to naturally cheat on the state, but above all, they cheat on themselves. There are many opportunities that are not used to link state levels, so government, ministries and local administrations and self-government. So a lot of money and strength goes from different levels and we often get the impression that they do, so we saw it now and in textbooks that really don't need enough. And, of course, there is also concern and concern about what is, in the broadest sense, of course, placed with the Ministry of Croatian Defence in the field of care for Croatian defenders and members of their families. It's gonna be a lot of work. I am convinced that the people I propose on these duties, so two old ministers not by age, will certainly, the old minister by internship I propose for vice presidents and the new minister of economy, labour and entrepreneurship. Here, ladies and gentlemen, if there is any need, I can further explain these suggestions, but here at the end of this introduction, I suggest you give your voice and support to the people, the new old people who will believe to give a new swing and take-off to the work of the government and fulfil all the tasks of the government by the end of the term of office in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42382	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42383	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect allegations by the Prime Minister, who I think has mentioned a 15-fold name of the ministry for which the candidate is Mr Popijac's ministerial post. It's called the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Everything on one occasion is mentioned this work and entrepreneurship. That this is not petty and fiddling is the fact that competences for the Minister of Economy and for the Minister of Labour are completely different. One schizoid situation in which Mr. Minister will find himself obviously is not aware of the very fact that you did not or were so easily joined together in your presentation. And another incorrect allegation, no compromise on the Labour Act has been reached. If a compromise had been reached today, there would have been no barricades in Radic's street that prevented union representatives from coming here to St. Mark.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42384	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42385	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, distinguished Ministers, future Vice-Presidents, MPs. Today, the Ministry of Economy is certainly one of the most ungrateful ministries of the Croatian government. Why? There's a problem the president was talking about, so it's shipbuilding. Shipbuilding is in such trouble that if you had maybe one special ministry I don't think at this point it would be an exaggeration. Our industry on the other hand is collapsing, our exports are stagnating, no economic branches are immune to corruption. Enough to mention "Podravka", one "Vartex", "HEP", "Croatian highways", "Croatian railways", I don't know if I'm talking about INA right now in the gas business. A few years ago, I read one piece of news that General Cermak the Hague accompanies the business with 100 million euros. How a man asks himself a question. But that he well instructed some colleagues who are in the presidential race today is obvious. Now let's move on, let's move on. Unfortunately, at this point, we haven't heard what I'm sorry it doesn't have a simple programme of this economy, and if everything goes the way it's going so far, it's just going to be a disaster. The question arises who is to blame for this situation in this country. I'd dare say they're governments. To be honest, I don't know what it took to tell the governor of the Croatian National Bank that in the latest interview "The New List" or "The Voice of Istria" the 3rd January administration. Then there are the tycoons, those who ran the companies, those who took something from this country for nothing, those who over the Shore companies from Croatia amounted to tens of millions of euros. Then perhaps the Croatian National Bank itself is responsible for this situation, its policy of a strong kuna that has affected many exporters, which has stimulated all this time imports, which has costed one tourist and industrial development through investments, although I understand that today the kuna should be kept as a pupil of its eye because they are citizens, because the economy is too indebted to that extent that some change of course would simply endanger everything. And finally, in fourth place when we talk about this responsibility higher than that economic daily life, there may be that policy for us as citizens or our fellow citizens, "We're not going to do anything, we're against everything." And in the last four, five years, we've simply driven out every relevant investor. We have lost 4,5 billion euros in investments that could have opened 40,50,000 jobs in this country and more than that number will be lost in this year 2009. So, just one piece of information. In the first nine months, we only lost over 42,000 jobs in the industry. 2010 will be a safe and difficult year since 2009. It is possible that in 2010, we will lose another 50,000 jobs in industry, and if that happens, it will be a disaster for all of us, for the country, etc. Only in one county in the Republic of Croatia is the industrial production of the first economic branch, it is down in Istria. But now let's take the turn. What's the problem? As I said at the beginning of the year, Croatia had about a million and 600 thousand insurance companies, meaning workers. There's under a million 570 grand today. By the end of the year, we'll be down about a million or five hundred thousand. On the other hand, we have a million hundred, almost 170 thousand pensioners. At the beginning of the year, the ratio between workers, the pensioner was 1.4 to 1.4, today is 1 to 1.35. There's one to two somewhere in Istria. It's all a disaster together. And if all the unemployed were turned into employees, that ratio would be 1 to 1.8. So we'll all agree, the best policy would be full-time employment policies, but what we'll do when it's all destroyed, all stolen, all ruined. And now we can also talk about this labour legislation, pension legislation, but I think it's a lot too late, if we don't tell who's responsible for this situation. First, where the minister is likely to crash, it's shipbuilding. But before that, only two words to say about competitiveness. Croatia is, as I know, in this competitiveness between Botswana and the Ivory Coast. Who's to blame for this incompetence? Whether it's just the governments, or maybe it's people's fault, like the Marine who led that council, who some candidates have been very much protecting at this time. You, Mr. Drinker, and I wish you every success of understanding, know the business elite of Croatia, probably the best of all of us in this House. There, like, means in that business elite, like in the Parliament, as I know in parties, hospitals, the administration has great people, but also those who got everything from the state for nothing, and actually gave nothing back to anyone. For starters, I think it would be good if all the companies that worked with the state on the roads, with HEP etc. were published in 2009, and then we will notice all the misery of the Croatian business elite. Little craftsmen, employers, craftsmen, craftsmen, etc., so at this point I dare say even greater poverty than the workers who work with them. But these tycoons, what's going on now. Literally, in the right sense, they want the state, because they felt that there was still something in this country that could be chuckled, and now they want the institutions of the president to subdue themselves to the next day of the prime minister, or the government, or their own interest. They simply cannot do without the state today, because they are aware that if they do not take over the state, that many of them, under quotes, will perish like the Glembayes. And that's why there are some candidates who are interested in capital that thus take place in these elections. But let me go back to the shipbuilding now. World shipbuilding is in stagnation, Croatian shipyards except the Oilers are almost bankrupt, it can be said freely, but it would not occur to anyone to throw that shipbuilding today into bankruptcy, because bankruptcy will be more expensive than this expensive maintenance of Croatian shipbuilding. Croatia simply has no alternative for shipbuilding. In one word, Croatia has no substitute for our shipbuilding, no matter what it is at this time. If they were to push shipbuilding into bankruptcy, then normally banks would activate their guarantees at the same time and then the Croatian state would end up in bankruptcy afterwards. The truth is, and this should be told the Croatian public that every worker of our shipyards, except for the Oilies, gets support of as much as 228 thousand kunas. A farmer, not the small one who works I don't know in the field, gets about 95 thousand kuna support, a processor in the processing industry, workers get support somewhere around 11,000 kuna, but if we lose shipbuilding we'll simply lose the industrial visibility of this country. The oil company, here's only one piece of information, has nine ships for a billion dollars. Split also has nine ships for 650 million U.S. dollars. So the difference between the boat and Split is 45 million dollars. Oil, if it doesn't conclude new jobs in 3 months, it will also be in big trouble after 2011, which is why they are already thinking about ordering two ships from themselves, so they can simply stay in the competition. What it will look like in the end, what it should do for Croatian shipbuilding, Mr. Popioč, go down to Pula to Radolovic, Brajkovic, does not matter. Have the state clean up the balance sheets and get someone to capitalize the shipyard as soon as possible. And whether it will remain to be seen, and perhaps in some transitional time it should be for the money of our investment funds, pension funds, etc. build ships in our shipyards. The exit from the crisis is clear that no one sees him at this time, when we know that 2010 will be a difficult year since 2009. I like to say that Croatia should be trained, what do I mean by that? Exports, imports to Istria are covered, imports with 90%. The first economic branch is our industry. Large systems mostly operate without any national guarantee. They're stable, unemployment is about 7%. However, the number of employees... Today, somewhere from 75 grand, it's up to 90 grand, and yet it's clear there's so much trouble to ask if those little ones I was talking about are going to survive in the first place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who is responsible for this economic moment? I put tycoons first. There's a clear state here. There is also the Croatian National Bank. I repeat once again, that under these circumstances the kuna should be kept as a pupil of its own eye, and it is our policy that we will not do anything. The world has begun to recover from the crisis on good luck. Industrial production or this GDP in America is growing by about 3.5%, in the European Union by 1%. Those who are export-oriented will likely feel some benefit from all this, and those who operate on the Croatian market will undergo a very serious agony. One sentence said by the Prime Minister, I loved it terribly, that there was a need to change the philosophy of work, that not in any way should be returned to that cult of work. It is clear that this budget savings, in some ways, needs to be stimulated, I do not know how to encourage banks to monitor the economy. Rohatinski, I read it, says there is no more room for the drop in interest, but the question is who will repay the loans and therefore, in a way, it is necessary to strengthen this particular consumption of citizens through a smaller interest policy. The Croatian National Bank with a strong kuna I would say destroyed those economies that are export-oriented and this tourism too. This crime should be driven out of these large public systems, "Podravka", "Broadyards", "HEP", "HAC", boost investments from the world, etc. Another thing starts to normally secure foreign exchanges. In a statement I took off the CNB's pages, says Mr. Rohatinski, I will literally quote him, "Yes, there was a million dollar question in Forbes, is there a stable course in such conditions in the country?" He thinks clearly of Croatia and he says, "The answer is yes. Along with the existing modes," he says, "he's sustainable as long as we somehow manage to repay our debts and while our abroad is ready to grant us new loans." We gentlemen are actually at the bottom. I think giving up today's false hope is hypocritical. Lovrincevic says recently that Zagreb will develop in this crisis faster than others in the Republic of Croatia. Normally, Zagreb is the capital of all Croatian citizens, but I do not want Zagreb to develop faster than Dalmatia, Istria, Like, Slavonia, Zagorje and others to be even more exposed to this crisis. What about the revision of the conversion? Now maybe it's a crucial moment. You're coming, Mr. Drinker from the Employers' Association. We are now entering into the Constitution provisions on the non-depreciation of the revision of conversion. Now I ask you to answer us whether you will enforce these provisions or you will miss them for our courts that are who they are. What I personally think you should publish all off-shore import companies. Out of the country in the last 10 years over $200 billion in 10 years, surely 5% of that money has been laundered in some secret accounts by Liechtenstein, Switzerland, I don't know where. I'd even say it was more stolen in 2003 than it was in the '90s through conversion. Today, Croatia is clearly defended by honesty, today the economy is defended by honesty, today the citizens of Croatia are defended by honesty, and I wish you Mr. Minister every happiness, but let's also say that we have a public waiting for them in 2010. I'm afraid there's a bigger VAT on bread, on milk. Even harder to collect credit, further loss of jobs, and at this point unfortunately we have received no over-programme besides this interview that I will not give losers any kuna, and successful companies will receive 2 billion kuna. And as for time and supervision, Mr. Popioč, be successful in this ministry, I wish you every good and oversee the Croatian economy better than the HRT that sues me today for 110 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42386	On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42387	Dear Mr. President, Madam President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a change that the HDZ absolutely supports. What do we support her for? Because these personnel changes strengthen 2 key portfolios in the government, economic real estate and social care. Why the economy resor? Because the crisis requires new reforms, needs new visions, needs new strategies. Because when we come out of this economic crisis that we have entered on the wave of the global economic crisis, we need to solve a whole series of current problems. A large number of losers, let's just remember the problems of our Shipyard needs to change the management of state-owned enterprises, and all these economic reforms are, of course, withdrawing special care for social care because social care must be addressed at the same time. That is why we have a new personnel structure that includes Minister Ivan Suker, Mr Djuru Popijac and Minister Darko Milinović for new functions. Why do we support them? Mr Shuker has shown in a number of years his activities, especially now when he was Minister of Finance, that a man with a vision, a man who can look at the overall interests of Croatia, a man who has invested enormous energy to reduce the deficit of the state budget and today we can say with praise that the deficit of the state budget in Croatia is much less than 90% of the EU member states. This is particularly important for a country whose budget is at today’s level, whose budget is at a reduction stage due to the economic crisis and where the new budget deficit would mean new borrowing, a new absorption of capital due to the needs of the budget, which means there would be no capital for the entrepreneur. And there, Minister Shuker showed great determination, knowledge, and often courage. And we have to say that sometimes he's too modest to point out that he won a big prize last year. Top ten reformer, the World Bank award to the Republic of Croatia for the achieved reforms of the economy and the membership certificate of Minister Ivan Shuker in the refurbishment club is a special prize for outstanding successes in the implementation of business environment reforms, the overall business environment. So, I think he proved with this that he was outgrown I would say the position of Minister of Finance and that he could definitely look at the entire Croatian economy and be a creator in that position. It is particularly important that the separate functions of the Vice-President for the Economy are from the role of the Minister of Economy, as this frees the time and energy of the Vice-President for the Resor of the Economy to be more creative and to take more time to create the future, not just for the treatment of the early present. Mr. Đuro Popiac, the prominent leading Croatian Employers' Association. An expert who has proved on numerous functions that he is a good organizer, that he is energetic, that he is undertaken and above all that he is able to solve key major problems, and he is facing major problems. We believe that with its responsible behaviour of the current duties it is absolutely up to this task and that the Ministry of Economy will take a new direction towards adaptation at this very moment of exit from the economic crisis, a better-recovered consequence of the economic crisis. And not in the end, Dr. Darko Milinovic, who will take over as vice president special care for the social portfolio, has shown that as Minister of Health and Social Care has significantly improved social care, that he has led the World Bank's project to develop social care, introduced a whole series of innovations, a whole series of rationalisation and in times of economic crisis, social care has not failed, and this is largely due to its activities and its merit. At these times, it is particularly important to strengthen this very vice-presidential post, because social care in times of crisis is of particular importance, this is not to be talked about, especially in the reforms that follow in the adjustments that follow, to the European Union. As the Vice-President of the Government has said, the OIB, which will in the social aid portfolio lead to seducing order and liberating additional funds for those who are really in need. This is because of these characteristics of three members of the government, the Croatian Democratic Community club expresses its support and supports the Prime Minister's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42388	Thank you. We have a correction by Mrs. Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42389	Thank you, Mr. President. This is how I would correct Mr. Hebrang's incorrect allegations with all due respect to the Deputy Prime Minister of the future, Mr. Milinovic. However, since he is the president of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, I have never heard him say he is the minister of social care, except that he is the minister of health. Since the reform of social care was therefore due to be completed in 2007. So no law has come out of this Ministry of Health and Social Care. And that's why I'll be against it. Because I think that part of social care is totally abandoned and I don't know why Minister Milinovic would be doing social care in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42390	It's nothing fixed, but you've made your point. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42391	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Minister, Mr. Drinker, colleagues and colleagues. For this proposal to reconstruct the government that is proposed to us, there is one folk, and it says, "A lot of grandmothers, a kilo child." Instead of one bad former economy minister, we are proposing two ministers with a promotion to the Deputy Prime Minister and a new economy minister and three advisers to the Prime Minister. The proposals for a solution consist of staff spilling from hollow to empty, with one refreshment, but I repeat, I underline, with one refreshment to the minister of the economy, but at the same time with questionable possibilities. In doing so, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party believe and we are convinced that its professional and organisational abilities are not questionable at all, but the potential of the system in which it should act is questionable. Namely, by setting up the Minister of Health, for example. Darko Milinovic, Finance Minister Ivan Schuker for Deputy Prime Minister, asked with several aspects. First. Why and why two? If Polancec's departure was to be filled with the vacant post of Vice-President for Economic Affairs and if it was decided to be Minister Suker, then what is the promotion of Health Minister Milinovic? Namely, just one example when we talk about Minister Milinovic insisting on the Rigid and Inhuman Law on Medical Aided Insemination, I repeat, Minister Milinovic is health minister, with this proposal, the Prime Minister now entrusts him with reform of the social system. Based on experience on the so-called Health reform, it's almost certain of the nation's horror that they'll probably come up with a form of social systems. And I think citizens have reason to be worried. Furthermore, the appointment of Prime Minister Schuker as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy is also in the opinion of us at the Croatian People's Party Club, a step backwards that neither the new Minister of Economy Popijac can fix. Furthermore, the relationship between the advisers, the vice president, the minister of the economy, is entirely unclear who decides who plans to do so and who is responsible. Mr Popijac's entry into the government would have a positive direction if Minister Popijac had the opportunity to create an economic policy, but we had already heard and was told at the beginning that Minister Popijac would implement the current government policy. It can therefore be concluded that Minister Poppie should not have even entered the government, except that he should serve as a positive example of the government's openness to new ideas, but in practice everything remains an old recipe. According to former Minister Shuker's recipe, which whenever he returns from the world with a new loan, comes as if he's carrying a gift, not a new debt. The new Minister Popijac comes from the ranks of employers and certainly knows what the real sector needs. And we at the Croatian People's Party club fully support it. However, in combination, we agreed that the urgent Croatian economy needs an intervention fund, we agreed that certain legislative changes should be changed, some legislative changes should be initiated. And here we have at the club of the Croatian People's Party offered to amend the Public Procurement Act, which would solve the inequitability and inciting indifference by the public sector and in a whole series of elements we are completely in agreement when we talk about the economy. However, it is not a question of his qualification here, but it is a big question of how much space will open up to him. That he was invited to the government to change things or share responsibility with always critical employers? Furthermore, we want to highlight the issue of advisers. It is still unclear whether two advisers are in conflict of interest or not. We still don't know that. When we add to this the intentions of Skegra's encouraging advisor to a little private little state interest, we can all conclude that one cloudy situation remains again, and the purchase of several months of taping in place and on reverse. And when Croatia is spoiled, it will be in an even worse economic situation. And at this point in time when Croatia must finally face the real situation in the economy and the society of the change of figures, there is not much to be achieved and it is particularly questionable, given that some figures in the team are the creators of the current economic policy, whose results can undoubtedly be considered extremely devastating. Croatia is located at one intersection. Whether to continue on the path so far and passively wait for a debt crisis to occur or whether we will leave the current economic policy and launch economic policy as a development of economic activity and an increase in employment as targets. The power of Mr Popijac's new Economy Minister in the current government will be checked by the time the budget is drawn up for next year, a budget that will see if he succeeds in making a revolution in the state subsidy system by redirecting from losers to prospective companies and especially exporters. I fear that they will not receive equal support within the Government for radical moves because this requires strong political will which the government has not shown so far and Croatia needs decisive and rapid moves. To carry out necessary, painful and drastic cuts, the government should have a mandate with a firm electoral confirmation. For all sorts of reasons, this HDZ government and the coalition no longer have it. I can only get it in the election. And whoever citizens choose can perform more resolutely than the current government that time and circumstances have definitely run over. Neither the team nor the programme on which HDZ won the election no longer exists. In particular, such an election check is important since Croatia is condemned to tears, denials and extremely much sweat. The reach for another staff solution outside the ruling party's party and its coalition partners further reveals the question of the human resources of the ruling party. How which system collapses so the government is forced to ask for help from the outside. The incapacitation of ministers from their own ranks destroyed citizens' trust in the judiciary, police work and the ability to run the economy. The Minister of Knowledge and Education left alone a ship that sinks along with its captain. And the real questions that are asked here after all are who's next and how long will this take. In order to combat recession and overcome not only the economic crisis of the nation and the country, other than anti-recession measures is necessary and the awakening of optimism. Faith in the sense of denial and in the better tomorrow. This isn't Croatia today. It drowns in misery and impotence, and the spent power cannot breathe hope and the necessary healing sense of a new beginning, which only new choices can trigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42392	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Andrija Hebrang's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42393	Mr. President, I'm correcting ten incorrect allegations about Mr. Drinker who have already been convicted in advance and the man has not even come to his post. Not to mention, all ten are completely incorrect because Mr. Drinker isn't in operational function at all to show what he can and knows. So we prejudged him with false allegations. For Mr. Minister Milinovic, I quote: "To the horror of the nation will restructure social care as well as health care.". The nation is not at all horrified by this restructuring because all public assessments give a good rating to worse, and I assure you that no European country health care can get a better score. So there is no horror of the nation because even in the severe economic crisis, everyone has health care all for free, including a budget that covers even additional insurance, which is no longer a country in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42394	Thank you. Correction Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42395	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Koracevic incorrectly said that implementing a reform of the health system is causing the nation's horror. That's not true. Namely, health reform shows absolute success, we have been witnessing this in recent days. He would have been horrified by his colleague, Koračević, if there had been no reform. I'm asking you to wait for this pandemic flu and all the other challenges that stand before the Ministry of Health and the basic system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42396	Correction by Mrs. Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42397	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague's in a series of incorrect allegations. I'd fix one. I quote, "Croatia is doomed to tears, denial..." I still haven't heard. It's just not exactly a colleague. Croatia is condemned but to your untruths, to misinformation, to your moaning and your impatience to wait for this government to complete its mandate. Be patient, and then you don't stand a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42398	On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Agent Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42399	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the government. No matter what this debate is united during the debate, I think the debate would be divided into two parts. This is a debate on the election of the Deputy Prime Minister because these are people who are in part in this mandate, and the second case has worked in both terms in this government, who are co-responsible for today's situation in which Croatia is located. The first two proposals are the people, or ministers, who have held a ladder to former fugitive Prime Minister Sanader for the entire six years that they have led Croatia towards the edge of the break-in and towards destruction. You still don't know if the break-in is gonna end. As we decided in the party how we would vote on these proposals, we tried to find several positive decisions, positive moves made by these two men in their mandates for this country. Unfortunately, we haven't found many. It was something small, and we came to the conclusion that they were generally wrong and bad decisions, bad moves, and the little things that were done well were done under great pressure from the public. Had it not been for public pressure, no positive thing would have happened in their mandates. I would refer to Minister Shuker, who was Minister of Finance in this and last term. In order to be able to give a vote to a man who, for the past six years as Minister of Finance, has managed to lend more than 43 billion euros to the Croatian state. How to give a voice to a man who, often at press conferences, when he publishes positive decisions, his successes in this government, praises that he has managed to further assign the state by issuing bonds, by raising various credits abroad to foreign banks, etc. He thinks it's a very big success. It does not see it on the other hand, that in Croatia, as soon as it is born, it has a debt of 10,000 euros. With all this, as this crisis came, he began to run state finances just as zealously as the head of accounting for various private companies. All forces are trying to collect the debts of the state from the Croatian economy, not thinking when it blocks some kind of company due to 10 days, 15 days late for paying VAT, so that employees and workers of these companies will pay their salaries. One finance minister who wants to work well in the Croatian government should care equally about people who receive salaries from the state budget and these pensioners, but also about all those workers who work in private companies in the Republic of Croatia. It is not safe to suck the last kuna from the Croatian economy to cover the expenditures of the state, to continue to act as drunk billionaires, not realizing that such a policy over the past six years has led to such a situation. I know at least a million people in this country who would be much better finance ministers than Minister Shuker. It's all those people who spend as much money as they have, who, when they eventually take out a loan because they have to, surely make sure that this loan is returned. I'd like to ask here how Mr. Schucker is thinking of returning 12 billion euros by 6 months, 9 and a half billion euros from the main charger, plus 2 and a half billion euros from interest? It's probably going to be a new loan again, we're going to look at some press conference, where they're going to once again portray it as their great success and success in this government. With a few words, he would refer to the second proposal, which is our Minister Milinovic, who has already managed to prove himself during this two-year period. What you could say more about a man who proposes amendments to the law, the passing of new laws with lots of lobbying, pressure, negotiations with coalition partners. These laws are adopted here in the Croatian Parliament, so that immediately after returning from the Parliament session, Mr Milinovic will send us new amendments to those laws that he proposed 7 to 10 days ago. I'd say that's how a man who doesn't have a program, who doesn't know what he wants, and who doesn't know what to do in order to reform his health care. Because if the minister thinks that he is right, regardless of all the discussions of opposition representatives, regardless of all the articles in the media, he must remain consistent and do what he thinks is best for the Croatian state, which is best for Croatian health care and for its citizens. What about the minister who recently made a statement in public that swine flu is being treated with sauna? It caused the ridicule of his profession, the doctor, and I don't think there's anything to talk about after that. After all, if it were so I would ask the minister how many Croatian families there are at home a sauna and it would be a great danger to treat swine flu with sauna, it is such a material situation for very few people to be cured in this way. It's still more financially acceptable to Tamiflu. In these two proposals my club will vote against, because we simply didn't find any reason to raise our hands for such a proposal in the government. I'd like to say a few words about the third proposal. It is a non-partisan, future minister or proposal for Minister Popijac, who has been a member of the Economic and Social Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia so far. I believe he was there in good faith to do something, but it is generally known that the government is this Economic and Social Council, both of which have been used as a fig leaf by both governments so far, to fool Croatian citizens and the Croatian public into doing something, to gather all the professional heads on a pile, to find a way out of this crisis. I don't know what his guarantee is that he's still not gonna bark at the moon, that his policy is still not going to introduce the gauges in which he can move and that he simply won't let them wave and start solving these problems from the position of the profession. We do not believe that Mr. Popioac will do anything, because experience tells us that in this government and the same government in the last term, the profession is not very important, that political decisions are made and that it is only seen as how to preserve the government, how to prevent early elections, and how to save the rest of its chair on as long as possible. I think, unfortunately, Mr. Drinker will drown in the grayness of this government, drown in the grayness of coalition relations, negotiations and political blackmail and end up ultimately as a victim of politics. I would eventually paraphrasise the former Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, who told reporters after his appointment, this is a big step in my career. I believe this is today, this choice if it's positive, I believe that you've negotiated that you have a majority, that it's going to be a big step in Mr. Drinker's career. I hope he will do as much as he can to make some positive moves in the lives of Croatian citizens. And I hope that at the end of the term he won't say as Mr. Polancec says today, it was nice while it lasted. In this proposal, we will be restrained, because we do not want to be priors and against. We hope that Mr. Drinker will convince this debate of mine and this of my thinking, and that he will make some positive shifts in the economic policy of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42400	We have a correction. First Mrs. Christmas School.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42401	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's counterpart Šišljagic in his debate, Drmic sorry, I apologize, but somehow he associates me, said in his debate that he knows at least a million people who would be better finance ministers than the current minister today, and here he is now for a few moments and vice president of the government. Mr. Drmic, that's not true. That is not true because you see that you know a million people so professional then you would certainly be Prime Minister today, and look also, it is not enough for your capacity because the Prime Minister must be a person who really needs to know all the pores of Croatian society, and you are not and cannot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42402	Correction, Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of counterpart Drmic, who said Minister Sucker owed the Republic of Croatia 43 billion euros during the term of his ministerial term. That information is not correct. In 2004, the total gross foreign debt was 23 billion euros, and by 2008, it doubled more than doubled to 39 billion euros, but that the central state's debt was 2004. 91 billion kunas, i.e. 12.5 billion euros, and in 2008, only 5% more than 97 billion kunas, i.e. 13 billion and 100 million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42404	Correction, Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42405	Thank you, Mr. President, this is really hard to correct. I'd make it all right, but first, how would we vote to a man telling him about Minister Shucker when he owed 43 billion in six years? I don't even know my colleague Drmic where you found those figures, but the government's debt is somewhere around 8 billion and it's downgraded. Secondly, I don't know what to fix from that sauna famous that you didn't even recognize and understand what it means when Minister Milinovic said it, it's a good condition for people who practice like this so they have a good fit they're less exposed to the flu itself. And in the end, I have to mention something. You said one sentence mentioning former President Escape Sanader, Prime Minister Sanader, I apologize. He's not a colleague, he's here in Croatia, but that's why some of our colleagues are still and are now parliamentary representatives on the run outside the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42406	Correction, Ms. Representative, Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42407	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I would correct the wrong quote of a colleague who says about Mr. Milinovic: "so does a man who doesn't have a program, has no vision." Wrong quote, just the opposite. Mr Milinović has shown his determination to the most sensitive groups of the population, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the very difficult and responsible system of social care reform, because social care does not only make compensations for the working, unemployed and most vulnerable groups of the population but also at home, i.e. social care institutions. As I must say, I definitely don't know what the Institute of Correction would be when it says about the current prime minister and vice president here in a few moments of government, Mr Shucker, that he knows more than a million inhabitants in Croatia who would be better ministers. In that case, Croatia would not know how many inhabitants it should have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42408	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Turk, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42409	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly, since my colleagues have already corrected the billions of debts and borrowing that Minister Suker allegedly made, and I will no longer correct this, and I am correcting the second assumption that a respected colleague Drmic would actually have the task of not collecting incomes from different companies, given the possible payouts, but my God is almost impossible for this speaker to hear that a parliamentary representative is causing insubordination in the matter of paying obligations that all of us have. Anyway, I don't know if it's ignorance or meanness or badness, but in any case, I'm correcting a false assumption like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42410	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42411	Mr. President, Prime Minister, ministers, candidates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club shall firstly have 2 principled objections to this designation. First is the number of vice presidents offered. According to the number of vice presidents offered, we appear to belong to countries with one of the largest numbers. What is the economic situation in Croatia then, then, we realize that we should not have gone to this number. You shouldn't have gone to this number of vice presidents. However, the Prime Minister very clearly announces that he will consider rationalising the administration. About the need to organise administration in a different way because it is too much burden for taxpayers, and what message does the Prime Minister send at the same time? Yes, the administration will shrink, but the vice presidents will increase. And why is that? For a simple reason because it's political trade in the coalition agreement. After Prime Minister Sanader's departure, we had to reroute, reroute, increase and bring coalition partners to the vice president, and now we come among the countries with the highest number. But we come at a time when we need to deal with cuts in Croatia. Madam Prime Minister, a bad message to the citizens of Croatia. Bad message to taxpayers, our coalition agreement is more important, and anything else can pay for the crisis. The second principle issue of the Ministry of Economy and Labour is a specific economy, and given the tripartite agreement, it is very important how we find a relationship between employers and trade unions. It's very important. A ministry that has to think about what conditions the economy operates under, but also what the living conditions of the employees of these companies are. And your statement to which you've told Mr. Poppie that you're proposing precisely because he's a representative of the Association of Employers. These are statements that a good part of us MPs can read in the media. It's something that's unacceptable. That's unacceptable. But even if you didn't say that, even if you didn't say that, as Prime Minister, you should have gotten their support for this proposal with union associations, you should have gotten it. Because your responsibility for the ministry is to find a balance between capital, employers and work. You're not. Another bad message. In times of crisis, you turn to the employers' union, their proposals, you leave the third important factor of unions, which usually have problems, because the number of unemployed is constantly increasing. These are the principles of remarks that we refer to the Prime Ministers, that simply in this proposal there was not enough responsibility and that this proposal at this time is not something that offers us security in 2010 and I would say in 2011. And now allow on behalf of the SDP club our thoughts on the proposed solutions. Clearly, the SDP club believes Mr. Ivan Shuker is the minister responsible for introducing a crisis tax. He's responsible for it. Because as minister, he was not responsible for the budget, as minister, he did not answer how evenly in such difficult situations to burden all who should be taxpayers. No, I don't. He turned only to the burden of those who lived from work or retirement. And he didn't try to find a fair solution for those who live on capital, property or speculant business. And it's his fault after the SDP club. We also believe that the minister who has reacted inappropriately since autumn 2008 is to this day to strengthen crisis situations in Croatia. That he was completely unprepared to assess the impact of the recession in the Republic of Croatia, that he had not prepared measures to stop the negative consequences of the recession in the Republic of Croatia. And most importantly, the minister who wouldn't listen to the experts or the Association of Employers, and we won't talk about the opposition, because otherwise the minister doesn't like to listen to it. The SDP club also believes that Croatia's liquidity is the biggest responsibility of the finance minister. In time, many have been warned that there is no pay in Croatia, that the creators of the inequitableness are majority-owned companies of the Republic of Croatia. But he denied it. Minister Shuker has his stats, the minister has his numbers and never listens. But today, we know that one of the greatest evil economies indifference can no longer be resolved, or at least Minister Schucker can't resolve it. Also, mostly owned companies whose business is to be monitored by the Ministry of Finance, as this is the backbone of the development of the Republic of Croatia, because it is a matter of energy, because it is a matter of transport, because it is a railway, telecommunications, a financial sector still owned by the Republic of Croatia, nor has the minister followed quality enough, nor has it warned the Government, and in fact capital investments are not in these segments the engine of development in the Republic of Croatia, are not the investment market for the real sector in the Republic of Croatia and the funds are eaten in unnecessary consumption, corruption and bribe. It's Secretary Shuker's responsibility. He is considered directly by the SDP's club responsible for the failures of the Post Office Bank not to enter deeper into the part and the failures of the FINA. Yeah, he's responsible, and we don't want to talk about their results, so we'd rather not. But we directly consider him responsible for that part. The relationship between the opposition and the minister, I'd rather not speak. In the last two years, the SDP club has made so many proposals for tax reforms for tax relief in the tax context, for thrifty budgetary behaviour. Besides ridicule and ridicule, humiliation as you know it, you're young, you're illiterate, we've never found words of communication. Although today we listen to continuous calls from both him and the Prime Minister to try to find a common solution to difficult things in the Republic of Croatia. All this is reason that the SDP club will not support the proposal to appoint Minister Shuker as Deputy Prime Minister. As for Đura Popijac, we are trying to assess how much his contribution to the government of the Republic of Croatia can be in the coming years. Well, then we're trying to explain to ourselves the people who replaced him, and one of them was Minister Schucker, who replaced him while he was director of the FINA, and now he's good. And tomorrow, they're the closest associates. Also, a year ago, the Employers' Association specifically warned Shuker about anti-recession programmes. None of them accepted, they couldn't communicate at all, he didn't listen. And now he's his Deputy Prime Minister after your election results. What to do in energy, because energy is the problem of the Republic of Croatia. We're foreign-dependenced, import-dependent, the biggest trade deficit is energy. And first of all, this Parliament has adopted a strategy in three weeks. A strategy where there was no positive thinking, neither in experts nor in the economy, all in the import strategy. What more can he do when we have determined what to do in the future. What you're saying about the budget that at least what we learn from the media is 120 billion kuna is somewhere going to be the budget for next year determined by expenditure and essentially without any indication of the discharge of the economy, from health contributions, parafiscal duties, administrative fees and anything else until we speak of very high burdens for regulatory bodies. We don't expect any changes. At the first step of the budget in a few days we'll see all Mr. Poppie's infirmities. That is why our assessment is that in addition to the error of the Prime Minister who has not received the consent of the employee representatives, we simply assess that this appointment is nothing more than a cover to mitigate all the negatives that the budget brings for next year. That's why, with all due respect to Mr. Poppie by the SDP club, we won't vote for him. As for the proposal for Deputy Prime Minister Darko Milinovic, too, the SDP club will not support it. The SDP club considers it a responsible minister whom everyone in Croatia will recognise under the Rigid Law on the procedure of medically assisted insemination, a law that does not recognise existing expertise on how to help people who want to become parents. He did not allow famous and recognised achievements in health care to serve the health system of the Republic of Croatia to help parents. However, in the domain of financial what to say about the minister who thinks the reform is successful because he has financially provided funds, but again on the burden of what. Workers, working people, retired people. Yes, he introduced healthcare charges, medications and introduced additional health insurance that they were forced to take. He also financially secured revenues, but only on which the burden, the poorest, those who are simply the only ones paid taxes in Croatia, people from work and former work. Of course, we do not consider such a reform acceptable and that we cannot give such a minister of support. Also, the SDP club believes that social policy in Croatia is completely wrong. He spends a lot of tax money and doesn't go to those who need it. Everyone who needs it just doesn't come and they're unhappy. They do not feel the social policy of the Republic of Croatia and at least Minister Milinovic. Now imagine he'll still be vice president trying to solve social problems. And in a crisis other than cutting, we don't know what's gonna happen. And this cutting if social policy is not changed can only be to the detriment of the troubled people in Croatia because they cannot provide themselves financially so that they can survive the month. These are all reasons why the SDP club will not accept such offered solutions. What do you say in the end? We are also afraid to welcome 2010 although we believe that there are solutions, solutions are possible and citizens could also live critically in 2010 but with such a government, with solutions offered like this will be uncertain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42412	Thank you. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42413	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would, in effect, correct Mr. Linic's incorrect claim that Mr. Schucker, as finance minister, did not show responsibility for the budget and was responsible for introducing a crisis tax. Exactly the opposite, Mr. Linic. By introducing a crisis tax, although it is certainly one of the most politically difficult decisions the Government must make because it directly affects the incomes of a large number of citizens, it has thus shown responsibility because we have thus ensured the stability of the financial system, because it has allowed all and wages, and pensions, and different allowances, etc., to implement the budget without a day of delay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42414	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42415	Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, you should have warned the counsel not to make an exact correction. As a representative of the club, I cited the SDP club's opinion. The HDZ Club can consider whatever it wants, I didn't mention it. Therefore, he cannot correct what the SDP club said because I pointed out. The SDP club believes that Mr. Schucker is responsible for introducing a crisis tax. ... I'm sorry, the correcting of an incorrect quote is if you know what the SDP Club is doing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I claim that the SDP club is held accountable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42416	You can't do it in the name of the club when it's being replicated, but you can correct an incorrect quote. That's what it says in our Rules of Procedure. Since you are not a club but a vice president of the club or a representative of the club and even if you are exclusively a club at the presentation of the club representatives can be corrected by an incorrect quote but cannot be replicated, it is in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Ivan Bagarić rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42417	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me correct your misquote, a false allegation that referred to this segment of healthcare, and these other colleagues have shown what they think of your quotes from other segments. So you said Mr. Milinovic didn't listen to the profession and that he passed a bad law. Absolutely incorrect. He listened to the profession, he respected the profession, so you said, and he respected the public, so the law was also on corrections, so it was done because he listened to both the public and the opinion of the public when it came to medically assisted insemination. And in this way he was able to listen, so he showed true obedience not to say humility. On the other hand, which is very important for one man who behaves such a high duty you spoke about health reform and said that the burden of health reform is borne by those who are the weakest asset, etc. Absolutely incorrect. They are absolutely protected by this reform of the health system because it ensures health funding and as such stable precisely because of them and not against them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42418	We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42419	Article 209, Vice President. I repeat, as a representative of the club, I made it clear that the SDP club believes that Mr. Milinovic disobeyed the profession. The SDP club believes that the burden of public health protection has been passed on to the incompetent. The SDP Club does. Then what's the correction? What would you like the club to consider otherwise? I'm not saying what you think. So my debate is very clear, the SDP club thinks. And if the SDP club. ... No, I don't break the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] SDP club. I didn't say you. You think whatever you want. But if the SDP club thinks it's a mistake? Explain it. The SDP Club does.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42420	Mr. Representative, you're tempted me to give you a warning because of a repeated violation of the Rules of Procedure's Institute, because you incorrectly raised your plate twice and explained yours. It's incorrect that it doesn't say anywhere when a club says something that can't be corrected by an incorrect assumption, but that it can be corrected by an incorrect assumption. ... I don't care. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're saying this, he's saying that. Oh, come on, sir. I won't give you my word. You're abusing it. I'm giving you a heads-up about twice that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42421	You won't give me the word I... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42422	Kresimir Ćosic, a correction of the incorrect allegations. Sit down! Sit down!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42423	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42424	Come on, what about this man? Will you control him here at last? The man wants me to fight here. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42427	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 209 has been injured. A Rules of Procedure in which no matter what anyone thinks about it, has the right to have a word when he raises this plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42428	It does if it's correct. If it's wrong twice, it won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42429	I must say, Mr. President, this isn't about correctness, it's about right. And then after that the Constitution, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system can give a different opinion. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42430	Mr. Representative, I'm interpreting the Rules of Procedure here, not you. You understand? I'm interpreting the Rules of Procedure, not you. You're not invited. And if you want to cause excesses here in this assembly in a vote of confidence, it won't work. Just like some other things won't work out for you, because of the incorrect conduct here, the lifting of that business table for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42431	Mr. President, the provision of Article 209(4) which states that if a representative asks for a word to respond to the quote, the President will give him a reply as soon as he completes the speech he made. The replica of the representative, i.e. the reply to the replica, cannot last longer than two minutes. Just a minute. Then comes the next item that says that a representative can discuss, correct the incorrect statement of the facts presented, and if it is a representative... that the club considers, please, that it may be a correction to the incorrect assumption of opinion. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] I guess you're different from the facts of something. Don't laugh like that. Especially you from the government. But behave yourself, because you're guests here. Please, nice. This is a matter within the Parliament and of the integrity of the Parliament. So our Rules of Procedure speaks in a proverb about correcting facts, not who anyone thinks. So, were you at the club or did you have those bugs you've had since 2003 so you heard what's being discussed at the SDP club?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42432	Thank you. Mr. Ranko Ostojić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42433	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I must say that you have no right to interpret the Rules of Procedure, but you can give... your assessment of whether or not something is correct is not prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] And regardless of all of us MPs, you can't just take away the word. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42434	This is how I respond to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which Mr Ostojić raised twice and one time Mrs Antičević Marinović, calling for Article 209. In response, I explained to Mr Linic that the club's representative's speech cannot be replicated, but an incorrect quote can be corrected. Because I have repeated it two, three times, despite this and for the third time Mr Linic is contesting that business provision. I've determined that it can't be replicated, but the club's representative can raise a plate to correct an incorrect quote. I sent a warning to Mr. Linic, because although he has twice abused the lifting of this tablet for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and my explanation, he has done so for the third time. As well as Mr. Ranko Ostojić, whom I also explained that it cannot be replicated, but it can correct the incorrect allegations, regardless of which club and which majesty made such decisions, can be corrected by an incorrect quote. And I'm not going to discuss this anymore, because it's the abuse of the institution of lifting up a plate of violations of the Rules of Procedure in this House, which should be especially known by those who are legally educated and who don't know. Well, you see how that happens, lawyers, and they don't know. They didn't read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42435	There's no way I don't... He'll share warnings to me, not to you who are again... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42436	This is...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42437	Because I've been chosen to speak, not to make me...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42438	I will characterise Mr. Slavko Linic as a traditional cause of conflict and quarrel in the Parliament. ... With everyone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42439	Because I won't allow terror, I didn't... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42440	You're gonna ruin the tan, man of God! It's all rampage. ... Mr. Cosic, please correct the violence of Slavko Linic, which represents the tradition of this House. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42441	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me correct Mr. Linic's incorrect claim. The incorrect allegation reads as follows: "You stated that there were no positive comments in the Croatian Parliament on the strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia". This is completely incorrect, perhaps your comments were not positive, but the whole series of comments was positive and I think that should be said because it was a document created by the Croatian energy profession. Energy experts at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, ECONERGA and other institutes did not deserve such marginalization. Therefore, for the protection of the profession and for the protection of the profession, I was obliged to correct this incorrect quote by Mr Linic. I think it's a serious policy problem, when politics doesn't respect the attitudes of the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42442	Does anyone else have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? There is, to my great surprise Mr. Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42443	Mr. President, article 209 did not warn a fellow representative that he had misused the Institute of Correction of the Inaccuracy. I say again, on behalf of the SDP club, my words say, "The SDP Club considers it," so the SDP Club considers and learns that correction means fact. The SDP club thinks, that's a fact. ... As long as the SDP Club considers it, I am not talking about the profession or public opinion. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] I'm talking about the club, which is why I don't defend the club's attitudes, but my words were clear, the SDP club thinks we're still counting and there's nothing to fix. Unless someone thinks otherwise, but it's not the institute of correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42444	Please, please, has this happened for the first time that someone is correcting a club representative in the Croatian Parliament? Please answer that question. If anyone finds it hard, I'll do it again for the fifth time. There is no right for a representative to replicate the presentation of the club's representatives, but it can correct the incorrect allegations. Perhaps these certain statutes should be multiplied and sent to the people to determine the material. I don't say anything here except that every representative like Mrs. Škulić corrected Mr. Hebrang who also spoke for the club. So what kind of standards apply, one for... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Fortitude one, claim the other and over. There are no sacred clubs here and those less sacred. All clubs are equal regardless of numbers. He's got a club of three members, and he's got 66 members. They have the exact same rights, so don't ask Mr. Linic for a special status for his club because you're not a sacred club like the Holy Club or HDZ. Do you understand? Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42445	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague, Bagaric, he's partly corrected the allegations, but since it's enough with this breach of the Rules of Procedure, it might be good to repeat it. According to counterpart Linic, Minister Milinovic does not recognise the profession's opinion on the Law on Medical Insemination. The profession said it was a law that we passed 20 days ago, and it's all clear, but another assumption that you're saying that dr. Milinovic therefore implements a reform of the health system on the burden of the poorest. Incorrectly, for 900 thousand insurance workers, the state is paying additional health insurance. For that part up to a million-and-a-half salary, the backlog of a million-and-a-half doesn't change anything in that part of the health system reform shows the results, but is it necessary to return to the time when you were the Deputy Prime Minister, when a working obligation was introduced to doctors? Is that necessary? So the reform also shows great honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42446	Ladies and gentlemen, in the event of a conflict in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure shall be referred. And this conflict with regard to the interpretation of whether the parliamentary representative has the right to correct the incorrect allegations of the club representative or not I am not sending to the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. So, if I were not biased, that I would not be like some fan, I kindly send it to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. He also had Mr. Ranko Ostojić's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42447	Article 209 was injured and I will help you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, so I will ask for that explanation. I'm not happy with your clarification. Only a representative who is not satisfied with your explanation may request from the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, etc. Not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42448	I can do it if I don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42449	With my humble legal knowledge here, I'll take that opportunity and ask for it. And Article 210 says you have no right to be disdainful of parliamentary representatives, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42450	You don't have a Mr. Standing I'll have the right to give a lesson and humiliate and insult the President of the Parliament, you understand. We have another correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42451	Well, Mr. President, there are a few things that should be fixed here. The first one says that the collin agreement is more important than anything else, everything else is waiting. Which is absolutely not true. He's not waiting for anything. A little look at the government, look at the president, whatever's going on reacts as quickly as possible, and let's remember what happened during your government that's been falling apart... since day one. Second. Everything you said about the energy strategy and the state of energy in Croatia is incorrect. Fearing people like every year that there will be no gas, there will be no oil, there will be nothing. And let's just remember that I'm correcting the SDP club, right, and I could only correct Linić's personal colleague that he damaged the state-owned company Plinacro for 500 million kuna, which he didn't single out the gas warehouse along with the company and now he has to buy. Which destroyed dozens of small private pump sellers thanks to the nepotism of the Energytroll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42452	People, I'm calling on parliamentary agents who didn't leave their nerves at home or in their pocket to do it. Because we're going to have another series of injuries to the Rules of Procedure now. I'm asking you to try to stand it. And first, I give my word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure to Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42453	Mr. President means the injured article 210th speaker can only talk about the subject being discussed and you have to warn him if he jumps out of it. I ask you to be consistent, although you do the same thing to your colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42454	Don't, sir. I'll keep thinking you're the President of the Parliament. You're a representative, you know, you understand. You understand that. I interpret the Rules of Procedure, so if you are dissatisfied, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You understand. Furthermore, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras reported a breach of his rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42455	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 210 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, Mr Markovanovic did not correct the incorrect allegations, but accused his colleague Linic of certain things, which simply cannot be used in a correction. And you've hurt Article 208 more than once, which says that the president gives MPs a word, etc. You're not holding a session, you're having a debate with the MPs, and I don't think we should do it, and the cause of this session, this kind of correction of incorrect allegations, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, is entirely your responsibility and your guilt.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42456	That is to say, Parliament's provocators, right, who have come here on purpose to provoke and create a riot in this assembly and who have been systematically dealing with Mr. Slavko Linic for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42457	And now what is this? ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42458	... You're an irresponsible president, you're embarrassing... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42459	Like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42460	I can afford it, and you as chairman don't. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42461	A constant and systematic loudmouth and a provocator in the Parliament. It's you. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42462	Well, Mr. President, you've hurt your Rules of Procedure. You're not holding a session. You're insulting the MPs. You can't do that. You're the president of all MPs. ... You're the President of the Parliament and you're not the loudmouth and you're not the one who insults the MPs. [[The speaker turns on, so it turns off, it doesn't understand.]] And please stop doing that because otherwise we won't be participating in this...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42463	I agree I didn't. I agree. He has the word Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42464	Mr. President, Article 215(1) and (2) have been injured. Article 215(1) states that order at the sitting shall be provided by the Chair. You have just managed to secure your chairmanship a mess and please give yourself a warning in accordance with Article 215(2). Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42465	The riot at the session began Slavko Linic. Let's move on. Mr. Coslevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42466	Yes, I can. Mr. President and the 210th article discusses the corrections of the wrong quote. I am not sure, i.e. I am convinced that the correction of the wrong quote is not as my colleague Markovanovic said I am correcting everything. Then you said it, and everything's wrong with what's been said. Therefore, please note what is said within the meaning of Article 210.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42467	I've heard of it, and thank you. Mr. Ranko Ostojić has re-injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42468	Article 210 was injured, Mr. President, which means rejuvenation of parliamentary deputies. Since I am not satisfied with your explanation that you have previously provided, I am asking the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system within 24 hours. That means the third one, which they are obliged to give me, means the dissatisfaction with the explanation that you have given as President of the Parliament. Please don't contribute to the bad atmosphere here. It's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42469	Thank you. We'll all appreciate what you said. I'm just saying that it can't be replicated to expose the club's representatives, but to correct the incorrect allegations. And that's where this debate started. It was the only thing that started this debate because Mr. Linic claimed that when spoken on behalf of the club that it could not be corrected. Please nice, I hope we calmed down the tensions in some way. I would ask the Committee on the Constitution and the political system, on the proposal by Mr Ranko Ostojić, to consider this whole process of lifting up to correct the incorrect allegations of breach of the Rules of Procedure, etc. to take a position and inform this Parliament to see who is correct and who incorrectly interpreted the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Do we agree on that? So we're hoping whoever's wrong is going to apologize to those he's actually accused allegedly guilty of. So I hope that, with a little excitement and outcry, we have gone from this agenda point, not from the agenda point, but from the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to inform you that at 16,19 hours ago, the time has passed for the application of ten minutes to debate, so we will continue with the individual debate. Now it's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42470	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. I must confess that with a certain amount of bitterness, I approach this debate because after this we will likely again complain that the reputation of the Croatian Parliament has been violated and declared guilty to the media. It wasn't supposed to be this, but good. Mr. President, at the beginning of my debate, I have a request for you and the Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, which prescribes that the candidate for a member of the government represents the Croatian Parliament of the Prime Minister, is the male family used in the Rules of Procedure, so I use it in my own business. I would ask the President of the Parliament to allow me and Mrs. Kosor to allow Mr. Poppie to answer three of my questions. On that basis, I could make my final decision on whether to vote for or to be abstention, or against. I told Mr. President I was asking your consent to ask the government's candidate three questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42471	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42472	Okay. You didn't understand me with the question, so I'm still going to ask those questions by giving Mr. Drinker a chance to read about them anytime. I'd like it to be today. First of all, Mr. Popicu to the Government at the proposal of Mrs. Kosor you are entering from the leading place of the Croatian Capitalists' Association. ... I expected this reaction because the word capitalist in Croatia is not used. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Croatia is in capitalism but we only say that when we criticize it, so we call it neoliberal, so in fact we are in capitalism and I do not see it badly. It's another thing we don't dare say in public speech. If we have capital on one side in Croatia, then capital owners are capitalists. I would like Croatia to be not five, not fifty, not five hundred but five thousand capable, strong, entrepreneurial, innovative capitalists who will develop the Croatian economy. Why capitalists themselves are afraid of calling themselves capitalists rather than using the words entrepreneurs, employers, so we are not in capitalism but in the market economy, I was never clear. You are the head of an association called the Association of Employers but also the structure of your membership was but indeed for what Croatia has of capitalists was all with you. So, if the owners are capitalists, the laborers are workers. By listening to the arguments for your appointment as Minister of Economy, I know that it is in your portfolio except for the economy and the labour and entrepreneurship portfolio. My question is whether because of your attempt to create a balance and prove that you will not only weigh the interests of capitalists for the Secretary of State, you will appoint someone from the Workers' Association, for example the union, to be very useful to you in the field of work that is also in your portfolio. This team more to know that the State Secretary, an expert in labour and social law and international recognition, has long been absent for justifiable reasons, so that portfolio is a little bit scribbled right at the time of the completion of the negotiations and writing of the Labour Act. So that's my first question. And to repeat that there is no confusion. The fact that Croatia is in capitalism in itself is not bad at all and the word capitalist is not an ugly name, but the correct name of one who has his own capital and I say, God forbid we have 5,000 capable, strong and fair capitalists in Croatia. My second question concerns the proposed Labour Act which introduces new moments or elements of flexibility on the labour market. And the whole concept of change in that law is further flexibility of the labour market. And this is a famous model not only in America where the labour market is particularly flexible but also in Europe, for example in Scandinavian countries. One of the most flexible labour markets is Danish but they have one whole model that's found flexicurity. Changeable, flexible but also safe. The flexicurity model is growing in Europe, especially thanks to the European Commission's efforts, thus slowly crossing from Scandinavia towards Germany, France, the Netherlands. What concerns me, however, is that the Croatian Labour Act is the one that is now proposed is three important components of this flexibility, and the first is the social acceptance network of workers who are left out of work. Secondly, the big difference between Croatia and other countries is labour migration, both territorial and sectoral. And we don't have a territory because workers can't move from town to town because they don't have apartments at their disposal. So I ask you, Mr. Popioč, in what time are you in, and I think it should be spent for at least a year, ready to offer the Croatian model flexicurity, the Croatian model of change, flexible, but surely for those who will remain in the labour market inevitably without a job? And the third question of the economy minister would be your position. And that's what the big controversy in Croatia is about in the last few days. Is the money the state is investing in the economy? Whether it's about these nearly 4 billion in agriculture, how many billion in shipbuilding or anything, you'd either point to losers and those who are in trouble, or that, and that's a lot of the little capital that's left at your disposal, you'd go towards the successful in hoping and believing that they'd produce new development and create new jobs. Mrs. Kosor said the government's programme is actually continuing. This means continuing to realise the current model of incentives in agriculture, the current model of aiding shipbuilding, the current model of fishing aid, the current model for tourism. But at the same time, it means that, for example, the textile industry, the cobbler industry, the leather industry, will not be able to expect more resources in the future. So where would they target the capital of the state, the aid of a country in which part of the economy, lost or succeeded to be even more successful. And I end my debate by addressing the Prime Minister. Mrs. Kosor, I'm probably one of the few representatives who never called a crisis tax a harachus. And at the moment of the debate about him and after him I never used that word, and I said that the only correct name for that tax must be given by the party that introduced him, so it's really not for me, it's for hazezarina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42473	Thank you. So it's an individual debate. Mr. Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42474	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, honourable ministers, and given the fullness of the bench on my left, respected future ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister's statement and managed to write down the following sentences. Namely, the prime minister said there was a need to change access to work. I agree. That we need to strengthen the social partnership. And a few other sentences that she explained in a relatively short presentation the changes she proposes in the Croatian government. Given the very serious moment, and economic and political I expected, I have to admit a lot more, and I believe all of our citizens. I believe all our citizens, too. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, if we really want to realize the Croatian dream of a better life, we will not achieve this exclusively with the deadlines in the government and the shifts of ministers. It takes a lot, a lot more. A clear vision of economic development is needed, and we haven't heard it today. Knowledge and expertise are needed. A systematic approach, a good organisation, needs determination and responsibility, needs coordination of all segments of state and society. And we haven't heard anything about it today. My colleagues and colleagues, in order to achieve the Croatian dream, we must wake up first. In just a year and a half, our government has seen some interesting changes. The Prime Minister's gone. We don't know why. The Deputy Prime Minister's gone. We know why. The party ministers are gone, the non-party ministers are here, we know why. But all other colleagues and colleagues remain the same. Economic growth that isn't. A development strategy that isn't. A society of knowledge that isn't. A bologna process that isn't. The rule of law and the legal certainty of our citizens who are not. But let's move on. The affairs and scandals, colleagues and colleagues connect each day with public enterprises, with state institutions, with state institutions, with the Privatisation Fund, etc., etc., etc. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, no one in this country is surprised when thieves are discovered in the administrations of public companies. No one in this country is surprised anymore when the boards are watching anyone. Unfortunately, no one is surprised anymore when ministers claim they know nothing about it. It's a dangerous moment. And the government and the ruling coalition with such a mortgage go further, without justification. We didn't get it today. In the process of approaching the European Union, and in order to reach European standards, we also note some interesting points, so allow me to say a few words. Here's the Secretary of Defense who doesn't know where military documents are kept. The Minister of Economy for many years doesn't know what to do with shipbuilding. The Minister of Science is funding biomedical research related to medically assisted insemination, and on the other hand, the Minister of Health in the same government prohibits the clinical application of the same biomedical achievements. The minister in charge of education fails to do anything to ensure that enrolment policy in secondary and higher education truly meets the real needs of the Croatian economy. The Minister of Health would do little, so he wouldn't introduce smoking and allow smoking in the catering facilities. Mr. Minister, I'm speaking to you right now. Do you know who launched a request in Ireland to ban smoking in catering facilities? It was the caterers themselves. Do you know why? Because Ireland is a legal state. Any employee in the catering facility who got chronic pulmonary disease, don't give God cancer, would be so compensated that the owner of the restaurant had to sell everything and give all his property to pay for and damage that employee. With us when someone gets sick working in such a one-stop shop, they just bump into the street. This is our legal state. So it's just sad that you've allowed smoking in those facilities. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, I was in... at a ministerial conference that discussed the further development of local and regional self-government in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was called, colleagues and colleagues, 47 ministers. The Croatian minister didn't even show up at the conference. What is the worst Croatian government has not authorized anyone from there to sign the two conventions offered. No one in front of the Croatian government addressed the rally. The Serbian representative, the Slovenian representative and others from these premises have done so, and we are the god's leader in this region. I'm just wondering, what's the leader in? I agree in the end that we need to change our attitude to work, but my colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we start with the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42475	So we're going back to this individual debate. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42476	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. So I'd like in principle to support the proposals simply because I think if one government or one team gets trust, then let them choose the people who can best implement and implement the political programme in which these elections are won. But in this case, I would like to express my disagreement with the principles or principles on which the choice of people we are talking about here today is very clear by saying that I have nothing against the ministers or the people who propose here personally, on the contrary. At one point in my life, I had very good cooperation with Mr. Popioč while he was doing another duty, as I had the opportunity to cooperate in this House, as president of the Assembly Committee on Family, with Mr. Milinović. But what is in principle questioning the quality of the decision and the proposal that the Prime Minister is offering us today? I think it's important to say that. First, the fact that we choose the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the man who comes from an interested group that is objectively in the opposite position of another stakeholders group, is the same as taking two participants of the dispute and putting one of them as a judge, and at the very moments when the case comes about the procedure in which the two opposing parties are located. We'll talk about the Labour Act next week. A document with less or more required or unnecessary dust being raised, but which in any case is a key law when it comes to regulating labour market and labour relations. We are bringing into a schizoid situation a future minister who comes from miles where interests are very clearly articulated. These interests have been clearly expressed and these interests are stronger, not weaker in these negotiations. I don't want to question Mr. Pooper's honesty or desire to do his job fairly and well, but his objective position simply disqualifies him for doing this job at this point. What is an even bigger problem is the fact that we have the Ministry of Economy in which work has only been added, and by this we are indeed one of the few countries in the world that does not recognise that work is not only a production factor, a production factor, but work is a complex social relationship and this complex social relationship requires the attention and attention of the entire society that is considered a serious society. And we put the work into one ministry as a sticker, as something that's secondary, something that's less important, and something that tangs so much if you want the everyday lives of people and the whole society or the whole community. Therefore, the first step you should have taken was to separate the work from that ministry and that the work that usually takes place in European countries with regard to social policy and social affairs, to separate it from such a single Corps, then the competences of the Minister of Economy and Minister of Labour could be discussed in a completely different way. In this case, it's not a good message to send. Workers as a weaker party will rightly distrust even good proposals that will go from the Minister of Popioc towards regulation of working relations. He will find himself in a more unfavourable position than the minister of work should be found to bring perhaps identical solutions precisely because of the situation that comes from the entrepreneurial miles. The same thing, these same arguments, something modified refers to Deputy Prime Minister Milinovic. Mr. Milinovic is acting as a duty I don't already know how long, Minister of Health and Social Welfare. I listened to him today in the current class. A dozen times he introduced himself and said, "I as a health minister," even he does not see himself as the minister of social affairs in this country. There has never been a single law in the field of social policy to be defended by Minister Milinovic. I've never read a single text, not a single interview in which he would say anything that would have anything to do with social policy. And now the minister who is apparently in this name, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, this social care burden, a great burden and something that he doesn't know what to do with it, is now becoming the first man in the Croatian state in charge of this particular area that he doesn't really care about. So now he's not chosen for the first time so now we don't know, so let's let the man work. Mr. Milinovic proved not interested. He has proved that he does not want to talk about it, he does not want to work on it, and evidence of it has all been halted in the last six years in which, of course, he, as a minister, has earned his responsibility. That is why they are not acceptable solutions. I ask you, first of all, to the Prime Minister, who is obviously not very interested in what is said here, because most of the time the proposals are voted out, to consider the arguments that I have made here and that the expected future reorganisation of the state administration if you have opportunities to do so at all, certainly takes care that Croatia as a normal state must have the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because this is also a European practice, that is practice and Croatia as a country, it is part of our political if you want tradition and this is a ridiculous need in view of all the strength of the problems that Croatian society encounters when it comes to these jobs. Therefore, of course we cannot accept and I personally cannot accept the proposed candidates for these functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42477	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, 5 minutes, Mr Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42478	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I didn't think I'd be reporting in five minutes, but listening to your corrections to incorrect allegations, I think I need to explain some things. First, I would say a few words about external debt, because I said in my statement that Minister Schuker is one of the most responsible people for such a high external debt. By 2000, it means at a time when this state was created, when weapons had to be paid on the black market at multiple prices, when the state was at war, when many BiH exiles and refugees were to be taken care of by the BiH state owed 10 billion euros. In 2000, the late Ivica Racan comes to power and owes an additional 9 billion euros. With the fact that we have to point out here that he's solved the issue of indifference in the state. Most of that debt went to public debt payments back in the '90s. In 2003, me and you walked together in the HDZ campaign, shared a guarantee card on which one of the most important items was, we will reduce the foreign debt, we will reduce the government's debt. I went after that you managed to reduce it well, so today it is 43 billion euros. You're also selling to say balls under the kidneys, you're reducing external debt in a way that the state no longer owes itself abroad, but you're sending domestic banks there to be in charge of their plants, bringing these foreign loans to their budgets to forward loans to the state. It doesn't count as an external debt state, although it's obvious that it's just makeup and embellishment statistics. If the real item were, the debt would be more than 43 billion euros. As far as liquidity is concerned, it is not those economies, small businesses that do not pay salaries to their workers, who are blocked by the state, are not inequitable drivers. Insolvency drivers are first of all states, HEP, INA, Croatian highways, Croatian highways and this is all the result of poor management of Croatian money, state money and Croatian budget. You spend more than you can really spend. At the same time as you block these companies from having to pay those taxes, state-owned companies and the state don't pay their bills. It would be interesting not to go out with that statistic, but surely that debt is so much by the state to its own economy that many of us would get headaches to see who it is. When the state solves the problem, it is likely only then that the country's economic situation will improve. As for my colleagues and his warning to call on crime, the state's threatened institutions, it's obvious that it's my turn now, and I'm tired of your enjoyment with Branimir Glavas' verdict that you've potentiated, which you staged and use the judiciary and state institutions for party purposes. I'm not afraid of you, you can do to me the same thing you did to Branimir Glavas. It was Sišljagic, it was Glavas, now it's me, after me comes next and he won't shut you up either. So you're free of all that you're using state institutions for party purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42479	We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42480	Thank you very much. A colleague Drmic said that in 2000, gross foreign debt amounted to 10 billion euros. Since this is a very important economic data for the Republic of Croatia, I must correct this incorrect assumption. The then gross debt of the Republic of Croatia was 12 billion 263m and 600,000 euros, not 10 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42481	Thank you. And final Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Koosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42482	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's already bright red for me. I'm just kidding. Thank you very much. Here's Mrs. Representative and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for the debate. It was a little stronger than usual, but it is, of course, Parliament's right to discuss how it wants and how it will. I ask you once again to support the proposed Minister and Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Government. I will only answer here briefly because this was referred to as a question Mr. Lesar, Mr. Representative Lesar as a request for approval of the Prime Ministers and President of the Parliament, I am now speaking for myself, that Mr. Drinker address you and answer you three questions and that you will then decide how you will vote. Unfortunately, Mr. Representative, I cannot grant you this because Mr. Popioč is not yet Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nor is he an agent, and he is therefore not authorized to speak in front of this House. It is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so you will have to decide without Mr Popijac speaking to you and I hope that he will contact you as Minister in the Croatian Parliament next week. So, I'd love to approve, but I can't. You have a little more time. Make up your mind. I think it'll be a good decision. As for only some of the observations presented by Mr Linic on the proposal that Mr Popiac be Minister of Economy and one finding that I should have asked for the union's approval or consent because it is problematic that Mr Popiac comes from the Croatian Employers' Association, I don't think so. So, no minister in the Croatian government has had any prime minister until now either, nor has he had the need to talk, but he had no legal obligation to ask for the union's approval. But I believe that it is precisely the union centre that will continue to support the Minister of Economy very quickly and I believe from the next week when we begin discussions and discussions on the help of the textile industry, the wood industry and others that will make sure in a short time that Mr. Popioč is indeed the right person to start this difficult, extremely difficult and responsible job and, of course, to the satisfaction of all of you and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to finish it. I would certainly suggest once again that you choose Mr. Shuker, Mr. Milinovic and I, together with me and the other members and members of the government, will justify your trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42483	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Please engage to see if we have a quorum to decide. The result? 107 MPs are present, so we can decide. We move to a vote on the points discussed. First, the proposal to show confidence to the Minister of Health and Social Care, and to act as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote of confidence requires at least 77 votes. Please, we're in control because many of them didn't have the keys. The result? I find that most votes with 81 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 35 against a decision to show confidence to a member of the government of the Republic of Croatia, Darko Milinovic, the minister of health and social care and to act as vice-president of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause]] Congratulations, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42698	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, on the basis of the conclusion made by the Croatian Parliament at the 8th session held on 20 February 2009, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible to report to the Croatian Parliament on what it has done to remove irregularities identified for 2007 and, in fact, in this text, which I am about to present soon and shortly, actually stands. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course in accordance with the division and competences and division of certain parts established by the State Audit Office. Therefore, at the level of the ministries and other competent authorities, it sought to collect and unite everything that was done to remove those irregularities identified for 2007. It is evident from the above that some ministries and other bodies have achieved significant improvements in 2008 compared to 2007, which are primarily referred to by unconditional opinions in 2008. However, it is also very clear that there is always room for improvement, and this will also be done during the coming period. As regards certain segments, let me also say that the State Audit Office has carried out a review of financial reports and business with the authorities covered by the report, and therefore one of the key areas was to determine the integrity of the property, liabilities and sources of ownership in the budget users, as well as to register the claim and take measures to collect them. In this part, significant progress has been made from the majority of ministries, and further actions are being taken and actions related to the overall list of assets, the register of liabilities and the source of ownership. As regards the registration of the claim, it should certainly be mentioned that by adopting a new Law on concessions and implementing rules related to it, and by establishing a concession register, we have established a more efficient system of monitoring the payment of revenue under concession fees, and also assumptions have been made for better payment and claims and the taking of timely measures to that end. The majority of the ministry has made progress in order to establish full analytical records, individual claims that are supposed to avoid outdated and better collection of claims. Progress has also been made with regard to the establishment of a full statement of all income and income, expenditure and expenditure, and in the presentation of individual expenditures at the time of the start of the business event, and not at the time of payment. What we can popularly say is the accounting principle calculated, compared to monetary. As regards the application of the Public Procurement Act, it should be pointed out that, in order to correct the application of the provisions of the law and to prevent possible and possible irregularities in this area, professional training of officials on the application of the Public Procurement Act, as well as implementing rules, has been carried out. Progress has certainly been made in the grant procedures. That should also be said very clearly. In the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, through the monitoring of the fulfilment of the criteria for granting subsidies, but also the verification of the data before the final calculation and payment of subsidies. In order to establish transparency of the subsidy system, benchmarks have been developed, a public list of users has been published, the amount of funds allocated to all projects and on the basis of which the criteria have been allocated. Also established information system for the monitoring of the grants granted, which records all data on the received requests to applicants and in meeting the prescribed criteria on the basis of which the score of the requests received is to be hit. With regard to support in agriculture in accordance with the recommendations of the State Audit Office, the conditions of tendering for the granting of support, the share of co-financing and the maximum amount of support per project are detailed. quantifiable criteria have been established on the basis of which acceptable offers will be evaluated and the selection of the most qualitative projects for funding will be carried out. Also, on the basis of a recommendation from the State Audit Office that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development cover at least 15% of the funds paid for the promotion of agricultural production and at least 5% of the agricultural holdings during 2007 and 2008 there was a staff, organisational and material strengthening of the capacity of agricultural inspection in 2008. In addition to the above, the different formation of a sample of agricultural holdings will be subject to inspection. In this regard, it should be said that in 2008, the supervision covers 6 000 agricultural holdings involving family farms, companies and crafts and meets the criteria of the value of money and the number of agricultural holdings covered by the supervision. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say that, in the spirit of making new ones, for the first time in a three-year budget, which will be on these benches in a few days, and the programme-oriented budget should continue to work on the quality of planning and control of the dedicated use of funds, and strengthen the responsibility of the ministries, or leaders, in the part of the commitment to the budget, or in accordance with the provisions of the new Budget Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-19-0.u42699	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of us, we have individual debates Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. I'm closing the argument because no one answered. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I would now, gentlemen of MPs and MPs, interrupt the session and resume tomorrow at 9pm and 30 minutes with point 5 of the proposed agenda of the Law confirming the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the final proposal of the law, P.Z. No. 472, it's an emergency procedure we've established this morning at the agenda. So, I want everyone to rest a little bit and cool off so that we can get back to Parliament at 9.30 in the morning. Thank you very much. While the results of the vote are announced, we have one item that we have discussed for the vote. Report made to remove irregularities identified by the audit of the State Audit Office for 2007. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. "A report is accepted on the removal of irregularities identified by the State Audit Office for 2007. a year." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes are 81 votes for, 5 abstentions and 40 against, the report was adopted on the removal of irregularities identified by the State Audit Office for 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors.
