ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27426	We continue with the session, next item Final proposal for a law to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for the multiannual operational programme "Development of Human Potentials" to assist the Community in pre-accession assistance instruments under the "Development of Human Potentials in Croatia", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 245. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Hrvoje Dolenec, State Secretary of the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of the European Union Fund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27427	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In short, let me present only this program, component 4. So, on 27 August 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concluded a framework agreement on rules for cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia in implementing aid under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance or the popular IPA approved by the Croatian Parliament on 3 October 2007. The Framework Agreement lays down general rules of cooperation and the implementation of European Community assistance under the IPA. 28 September 2007 The Republic of Croatia has submitted a proposal to the Commission of the European Communities for a multi-year operational programme "The development of human potential". 7 December 2007 The Commission of the European Communities has made a decision approving the proposed problem for co-financing from IPA. On 1 December 2008, a decision of the European Commission was adopted to delegate powers to the Republic of Croatia for the management of the operational programme "The development of human potential". The Operational Programme "Employment of Human Resources" is a multi-annual programming document based on IPA funds for the needs of the Republic of Croatia to finance the activities foreseen during the period from 2007 to 2009 with the current operational programme. The financing agreement shall regulate the detailed conditions necessary for the delivery of assistance to the European Community, the rights and procedures related to the payment of this aid and the conditions under which this assistance will be managed. On 5 December 2008, the financing agreement on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was signed by Mr Van der Pas, on behalf of the National Coordinator of the IPA Programme, and on behalf of the Commission of the European Communities on 4 December 2008, by Mr Van der Pas, Director of the General Employment and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. What is most important in this programme is the total value of this operational programme is 333.2 million kuna or 45 million euros from which IPA provides grants of €283.2 million and €38.3 million respectively, while additional funding of €49.9 million or €6.7 million is provided at the positions of the Croatian Employment Institute, which is the implementing body for priorities of one, two one and four operational programmes and the Agency for the Professional Education of the Implementation Body for Priorities 2.2 and three operational programmes. The financing agreement shall enter into force on the day on which the Commission receives written notice that the conditions are met, the legal conditions of the Republic of Croatia for its entry into force. And it is in our interest that it, in fact, is to be done as soon as possible in order to start the payment of the advance funds by the European Commission towards the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27428	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. It's the first club debate. He is the first respected representative of Daniel Mondekar on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27429	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP Club supports the adoption of this law, as we support all the laws confirming the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia, that is, the possibility of the Republic of Croatia participating in European Union programmes because they allow our country to address its projects and priorities by means of grants and that it does not have to be credited. As regards this bill, it should be said, therefore, that it is the IPA, the fourth component of the development of human potential, whose key document is the operational programme adopted on a three-year basis. The operational programme for development means human potential is a programme framework for the use of funds in the employment, education and social inclusion sector. Because we have documents that Zdurf has just issued, it is clear that during the preparation of the operational programme, I quote: “it has shown that there is a need to work more intensively with groups affected by high unemployment, then to coordinate educational programmes with labour market needs and to promote the principle of lifelong learning as well as the need to implement specific measures for people who have a difficult access to the labour market because of social exclusion. The general objective is cited as creating new and quality jobs. You can clearly see the role of education here. However, I personally believe that the role of education is crucial in this component, and we do not need ultimately IPA to see how much this trend has been going on for the past few years and how much through European documents it is possible to see that education is a tool, a key tool for achieving certain objectives, economic goals within the European Union, such as the fact that Europe must become the most competitive society in the world. Although some changes have occurred, it is clear that some of the objectives of the Lisbon agenda will not be achieved by 2010, they may be a little too ambitious. What is unchanged is that education remains a key tool. The operational programme for human potential development consists of several priorities and measures. So we have the priority of improving access to employment and sustainable inclusion in the labour market with support in designing and implementing an active and preventive labour market policy, supporting the efficiency and quality of Croatian public services responsible for employment, priority 2 support to groups, and those in an unfavourable position when accessing employment or education and key priority 3 strengthening human capital and employability through further development of the Croatian qualification framework, strengthening adult education systems, strengthening institutions responsible for vocational education and adult education, and then we have technical assistance. So, in short, as you can see, we have the strengthening of the modernisation of employment services, solving the problem of long-term employees with low levels of qualification, we have the harmonisation of the Croatian qualification framework with the European qualification framework, we have the mutual recognition of diplomas and acquired qualifications, strengthening and development of the system of vocational education and adult education. Reading these measures and priorities, especially priority 3, it is clear to all of us that Croatia is waiting primarily in the European Union and before the Union education facing learning outcomes, a unique, extremely dynamic and competitive labour market turned to key competences, and on the other hand when you look at institutions that should push this forward in Croatia, we have the Ministry of Science Agency, let's say it would be interesting to compare the level of information that an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia can get in these things. Like that. We have here, says further development of the Croatian qualification framework. If we look at the new website of the Ministry of Science, then what further development is raised when the existing development is not mentioned in a single word, what has been done so far in the qualification framework. If you look at lifelong learning then again on the web site, otherwise new, you can see that education in Croatia is divided into basic, high school, higher schooling and preschooling before that, but lifelong learning and adult education within lifelong learning there is not one word, one word. Some information about adult education can possibly be obtained by digging the archives, so you can access the KARC program with certain information or even semi-information. The outcomes of learning are not to be discussed at all. Almost nonexistent words regarding the information portal of the Ministry of Science, one word, as I said, has no lifelong learning. And key competences that are important because they are closely linked to the European Union's transverse programmes are not mentioned as well. So, on the one hand, we have the necessary measures, the necessary priorities and absolute silence with the competent institutions that need to provide some professional information on this. As far as this component itself is concerned, I could say in part that it is a partially visible component. With IPA, if all the components are looked at, then we can say that component 2 cross-border cooperation, so component 3 around regional development, part of component 4 and component 5 are visible components because its results can be seen specifically in local self-government units. That's what this component is getting into. But if key institutions like the ministry don't start up, then we'll have one nice wish list left. Now, the local self-government unit, something needs to say a little bit about them because soon cross-border cooperation will go, but through all these components, some units of local self-government can really develop far, far above the level in which they are now. When we see the entire IPA, it can also be infrastructure works, in the case of agricultural entrepreneurs, it means investment in their infrastructure, meaning in strengthening adult education, so it will simply work in a specific city where people will go to additional education. And not to say that we still haven't said in a professional way about the recognition of informal and informative education which is also crucial for the labour market. There can be support for cluster development, commercialisation of the bioscience sector, means different implementation of employment measures and so on. So, IPA is completely for us in the SDP, and probably all of you are clearly key to the development of local self-government units. The other thing that's important about IPA is the question of IPA entrepreneurs. I think colleagues from DURF daily receive the same number of phone calls where entrepreneurs look and ask how they can get the money, but should also say that with that pilot project we had through... And something petty in IPA entrepreneurs can't come directly unless it's about agricultural entrepreneurs through... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to direct investment money for buying new machines or so on, what we have is primarily related to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what entrepreneurs can get and what needs to be said clearly depends exclusively on capacity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The primary units of local self-government, but if it gets more resources and if it is concrete infrastructure works, someone has to do so, and such a way of doing business where entrepreneurs can provide services specifically related to a project, teaches them to operate in a European environment. Perhaps some of them will afterwards also encourage to apply to projects from major structural community programmes such as the CIP because we don't need the CIP if it's tightly tied to possibly some state institution taking the money. This is primarily intended for medium and small entrepreneurship and may be followed by international competitions, especially when we are a member of the European Union, here some 1500 competitions have been opened in the European Union by business sectors today. So the key thing is that it concerns the local community as well as its human potential. I am deeply convinced that these are also the last local elections to come to us, that EU funds and the use of funds may be a smaller topic. From the following, the mayor or who was much more successful on this matter will be seen. IPA first of all means teaching and preparing us. It teaches us how to operate in the EU environment, how projects are run, what it is, how it works with international partners, it prepares us for structural funds that are up to 10 times bigger than what we now have from IPA, but for concrete success, we need to learn at all levels and build capacities for all levels because it will then create concrete jobs. One of the first sentences you can see today when you look at information about EU funds, whether in different private companies or even on the official pages of the institution, it is already a famous sentence in 2009 is the year of recession and crisis, and the European Union gives 75 billion euros through 500 thousand projects. Take your share, too. So you can find that today when you have, you're looking for information about funds. And smart governments turn to that. One of such examples and closely related to Croatia is that Ireland, Hungary, and especially Slovenia, with state money, stimulates private companies to say so to its consulting services in this area, especially regarding the cross-border cooperation that Croatia-Bosnia, Croatia-Montenegro, Croatia-Serbia will now have. So they have the state's support for that because they know what they're benefiting from it. On the other hand, when we see what is a low level of knowledge among some units of local self-government and what discrimination exists between the two counties on knowledge and the concrete use of EU funds and when we see how low there is still a low level of knowledge among entrepreneurs but the academic community is just asking me whether it means that our Government has not yet understood that message. I hope that through all these funds, through all the funds we can get, through pre-accession programmes and through community programmes we will use maximum because the other option is the credit responsibility of the Republic of Croatia and I don't think anyone wants it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27430	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27431	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, at this point, the Republic of Croatia is using several European Union programmes, the CARDS projects are being successfully completed, as are some projects from the PHARE programme, while at different stages other projects from the PHARE and those financed from ISPA and SAPARD. Since the financial year 2007, we have been using a new IPA programme that unites all previous programmes but particularly highlights some areas that have not previously been monitored under one denominator. Here, right in front of us now we have a financing agreement on one such new component of the development of human potential, which is one part of the so-called. the fourth component of the IPA. True, in some previous programmes projects can be found individually from this section, however, only the IPA as a programme is systematically approaching this area and because it has shown that a systematic and coordinated approach to human potential development through a specific operational programme is significant among other things and for the fulfillment of so-called. economic criteria for membership in the European Union economic development and social cohesion. At the same time, the implementation of this programme will also contribute to achieving the objectives of the Lisbon agenda. This will result in projects aimed at the efficiency of the labour market, which should result in a reduction in unemployment. A series of projects will present a preparation for future projects that we will use from the European Social Fund above all to prepare institutions that will manage the significant amounts we will receive when we can use this fund. Namely, what kind of projects here are clearly mentioned in a document called "The Framework for Harmonisation of Strategies for the period 2007-2013", which is said to quote "this includes interventions in the field of employment, social cohesion, vocational education and training, as well as preparatory actions related to the adaptability of workers and businesses". From the above, it is clear that it is an extremely significant programme that will have a positive impact on employment in the long term and on the other hand have good effects for extremely sensitive social groups. This programme is worth 333.2 million kuna in a period of three years, so the IPA grants to the European Union are financed by 85% and 15% will be secured at the positions of the Croatian Employment Institute and the Professional Education Agency in 2009 to 2012. The financing agreement is a standard content agreement and as such defines the conditions of use of aid and, when confirmed in the Assembly, it will become a legal basis for receiving funds from the operational programme "The development of human potential". And in the end, although not only important, Croatia will manage the funds from this programme by so-called a decentralised model. This term means, in fact, that our institutions will largely manage these funds independently. In fact, our institutions are trained to manage these funds, where the National Fund of the Ministry of Finance is in charge of financial management and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Croatian Employment Fund and the Professional Education Agency are in charge of implementation. Oversight and audit is responsible for the Croatian side's concerns with several authorities of the state administration. Due to the importance of this programme for the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27432	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27433	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The HNS Club supports the Law attesting the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Community for the Operational Programme "Employment of Human Potentials" and that is also all that could be positively said about this document. In fact, the question is whether we support Croatia from the European Union through the funds to receive these 45m euros is the answer. Everything else here is asking a series of questions that are not answered in the text itself. At a very high concentration of technical terms, the whole thing as often happens when it comes to the European Union and in particular about funds makes it far and incomprehensible for daily communication. In fact, under these terms there is something that a) is very life- and tangible, and b) is almost a key topic of our future, economic and any other institutional and stabilisation of our institutions. Because de facto is the only serious perspective we have and the only real great resource we have is humans. And educated people, so people with knowledge who are able to come up with new conditions and adapt to new conditions is our only comparative advantage. As is known in the European labour market, the only labour segment with which we are in fact competitive is a highly educated workforce. No more seriously highly educated labour without lifelong education. No one can function in such a way that he learned something at higher schools and colleges and then ended it and did his whole life. These people quickly become unsustainable in their jobs and unemployed, if they lose their jobs and look into the eyes of a situation where a large number of people outside Croatia, but also in Croatia, lose their jobs in the next period. The development of human potentials, as mentioned before me by my colleague and colleagues, is therefore entering the employment and labour markets sector, entering vocational education and adult education, therefore continuously and entering the problem of social exclusion, i.e. unemployment, and here we have an additional problem, which is that we have a double rate of long-term unemployed, than it is in the European Union countries. The goals are to create new and quality jobs, strengthen social inclusion. You will remember one of the two at least researches in the last year or a half, which have dealt with the problem of social exclusion, or feelings of social exclusion, that have been examined and found to be a trend towards growth, and have found that there is a huge difference between certain parts of Croatia in perception and a sense of social exclusion. Therefore, the large inequality is mostly coordinated with the economic situation and employment levels, i.e. unemployment in these parts of Croatia. Further objectives are to foster the flexibility of companies and workers and to strengthen the institutional capacity to implement these programmes. The employment office has or should have one very important, and in the opinion of the HNS club and a completely changed role. So you should have the role of an important factor. On the one hand, the integration of educational institutions, therefore the education system with the economy and, on the other hand, an essential role in the project of lifelong education. It could no longer be, as is mainly so far the stock market that people are applying to and keeping records of employees and unemployed people, those who are looking for jobs and those who are looking for workers. We don't need an institution like that anymore. As far as the Employment Service is concerned, there are more institutions on the Internet. What we need from the Employment Service is an entirely new institution that is a component of the system of lifelong education. Of course we don't have that. On the other hand, there are 30 generic skills by the Bologna model, so to speak, fundamental abilities that qualify people and that would have to come out of the educational process with this kind of 30 generic skills. We neither define it in our system, nor measure it in any way and value it. The second element here is the decentralised model, so that this entire system of strengthening or building human potential, should be a decentralised model, should naturally be institutionally decentralised, but should be decentralised to say administratively. Therefore, not only at central state level, it should have much stronger communication with decentralised forms of state administration or local authorities. It is said throughout the text, therefore, that one universal model of regulation of these relations between the country and the European Union is a set of criteria. The criteria to be met are divided into three categories. The high risk, the medium risk and low risk and, of course, the high risk criteria of which two are mentioned there, relate to our weakest and most problematic point, which is why we already had frozen funds, which are why we have already lost some funds from European funds, which is internal audit. In other words, it is simply said, how this money is spent and what is bought by it. What are the results? So, who we have educated and how we have improved the quality of human resources. It has a dozen mid-risk criteria and two low-risk criteria. Now, according to what can be read from this document, deadlines for meeting these criteria have passed. All deadlines are 31. 12. 2008 or 31 January 2009 Only for low-risk criteria have the deadlines not yet passed. Can't tell from this document if we've fulfilled those standards? Have we fulfilled those standards? Did we, the deadlines mentioned here, honor what is written here, realize and train? How ready are we for a decentralised self-management model in this sector? How ready are we for what there is a chance here, which is to manage and control the use of these funds ourselves? Because there are two possibilities. One, that ex post controls are carried out by the commission, the other, we do the follow-up controls ourselves. It can't be determined from this whether we're qualified to meet the criteria. Let's do this control ourselves, especially since we already had that kind of problem last year and that's why we lost some important assets and some were delayed, or their use was delayed precisely because of this issue of orderly and fair accounting, so to speak. We are in a situation where we have several sensitive areas regarding the requalification and training of human resources that are recognizable, today here are not a matter of speculation, but they are clear that it will happen. These sensitive areas are, for example, shipbuilding. The people in the shipyard are gonna lose their jobs. One part of the people in the shipbuilding will lose their jobs. That's clear... There's no dispute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was even clear before this crisis occurred. Whether in any way we've prepared ourselves within this program and project to retrain these people, to train these people to work elsewhere, to work in other sectors. Or we close our eyes and hold the water until the masters leave. We're waiting for him to pass, so when he hits us in the head, then we'll try to get by. This is an instrument by which we can prepare, not to eliminate the serious consequences, both crisis and restructuring of individual sectors, but to alleviate them. Let's do what the mission of the state is, and especially now that we can, at least somewhat, use these funds amongst other things. Whether something has been done for construction that has already suffered and will suffer even more. So these are some, I won't even say agriculture, these are some segments where these types of resources that go towards developing human resources can be used very practically to mitigate the consequences of the crisis and to develop a more flexible labour market. As for the document in front of us, we can't tell from it, so I'm asking the Secretary of State here to answer that question, if possible, to what extent we're here, and these are deadlines and institutional preparation, to what extent we've fulfilled it, and to what extent we're actually, we're discussing something that we're postponing today. So what, we haven't prepared ourselves yet, and to what extent we've done any plan or project of targeted groups in which we're going to invest in particular, and the unemployed are in the first place, where we're going to centralize and target exactly the funds from this project, to make them employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27434	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27435	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Pusic said the people in the shipbuilding will lose their jobs, I hold it incorrectly, or counterpart Pusic has some prophetic abilities. Simply so, in these circumstances when we testify in recent days that orders in shipbuilding are growing, where our government and Vice President Polancec are making great efforts, I see in these circumstances that it is for shipbuilding and how much I follow that certain stability and certain better circumstances occur. And this, then, yours, I can't understand what occasion and how you mean it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27436	Thank you. And we have a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27437	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here it is, my colleague Milinkovic corrected the first part because we seem to have thought the same thing, and I have another incorrect assumption, and he refers to that construction is in crisis that it doesn't work. My colleague Pusić, I come from Vrgorec, right now, I came here an hour ago, where all the companies on the highway relevant, I also know that it is still working from Vrgorec towards Plots, it is done in others. Maybe if your colleague Cacic doesn't have something to do, you think it's a crisis. The construction crisis isn't, absolutely certain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27438	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27439	Honorable Vice President, Secretary, fellow MPs. Well, in any case, this law is commendable, and for two reasons, it's two-sided. First, through such operational programmes, the development of human potentials realises its planned plan to become the world's most dynamic and competitive economy at the concept of lifelong learning and education and with permanent employment. Second. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it is aware that the long-term development of the national economy depends almost exclusively on the quality of human resources. It has been shown that companies that have understood and accepted that human potentials are one of the fundamental factors of company success are more successful companies than those in which poor administration and management are stifled by the motivation of workers, its improvement and progress. The human potential must focus on new technologies. In a world of progressive companies, companies open their websites that are widely used by managers, employees, but also by those seeking employment, as well as for those who, by exchanging information through websites, blogs, companies, acquire in their ranks employees from competing companies. I expect more investment from the funds allocated to the operational programme to develop human potentials to improve the finding of i.e. employment, but also for those initiatives through which individual workers want to change the existing job with the aim of progress through their profession. This role must be largely taken by the Croatian Employment Service, which receives certain funds, but the Croatian Employment Service must be organised and trained to be able to anticipate the demand for certain interests, as well as through cooperation to assist the education system. In Croatia, there must finally be a link between the education system and the economy system, because the current bad connection of these two systems has resulted in surpluses of individual staff whose requalifications generate additional cost to the state and deficit of individual personnel that we must import to Croatia with our problem of high unemployment. Through human potential development programmes, and especially in the part of the motivation of workers, management needs to be helped to motivate workers, to allow maximum employee affirmation, to enable him to participate in the decision-making process. in the division of power and responsibility. It must know and design reward and motivation packages towards workers, and this all comes back through increased efficiency and profit of companies or companies. Only then will we get a more satisfied and better-paid worker with higher performance and higher profits for the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27440	Thank you. And distinguished representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27441	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I will remind you that the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance is set up by the Council of Europe Regulation, and its financial value for the seven-year period and for all beneficiary countries is around €11.5 billion. The Republic of Croatia has received 138.5 million euros for the period 2007-2010 and for the development of human potentials 8% of the amount mentioned or 333.3 million kuna of which 283 million kuna is provided from the IPA programme and about 49.9 million kuna from the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. The main objectives of the programme are to assist candidate countries and potential candidates in harmonising national legislation and implementing the acquis of the European Union, and to prepare for the use of both structural and cohesion funds. The Republic of Croatia is a user of all components of the IPA programme, and in the past two years, many operational programmes have been developed and accepted for all of those components, and at this session we have prepared a series of 5 or 6 funding agreements that are in line with the detailed conditions necessary for the withdrawal or use of the European Union grants, rules and procedures relating to payments, but also the conditions for managing that assistance. Since the agreement, as already stated, is of standard content and form, I will refer to the importance of the preparation of the Republic of Croatia for both IPA and structural funds, but also to the operational level. We know that the biggest problem is countries that are just entering the European Union, because it is usually ignored by the operational level because it is given great attention to the strategic level, but also to compliance with the laws of the European Union. One of the criteria to measure the country's success is the absorption capacity for the use of grants. It depends on a few factors. The first is the preparation of country strategic and operational documents with clearly defined priorities. The second factor is the reservation of sufficient financial resources in the State budget to co-finance these measures. The third is the ability of the state administration to quickly and efficiently, but also properly prepare the tender documentation and carry out the selection process. The fourth is the ability of state authorities to monitor the real and financial obligations of the projects to be implemented. The fifth is the timely preparation of a sufficient number of quality project proposals in a position to be implemented. And very important, the sixth factor is a sufficient large knowledge base in the institutions and organisations that will run, perform and manage all activities, but also monitor the implementation of the programme. All levels of the state and business world should be included in achieving good absorption capacity. And just these IPA funds that are at our disposal are meant to just strengthen the system, but also human potentials. And these agreements, which are ahead of us at this session of the Parliament, are evidence and confirmation that a lot has been made over the past period to strengthen exactly absorption capacity, and that we have created good preconditions that we can withdraw the funds of European funds much faster. For that reason, I support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27442	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, esteemed Hrvoje Dolenec, State Secretary of the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of European Union Funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Two questions were asked to answer, so I will only answer Mrs. Pusic. First of all, you have read the results of the audits that were established before giving accreditation to Croatia for managing this operational programme. So, in my opening speech, I mentioned that on 1 December 2008, a decision of the European Commission was adopted to transfer the management powers of this operational programme to the Republic of Croatia at certain risks. It's a standard audit finding as well as for every company, as well as for every institution. Of course, measures are a condition that we could just run or request the use of funds. The first condition we have to do is to adopt this Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement, and in the relevant ministries or institutions of the Croatian Employment Institute, the Professional Education Agency, are already standing on the stand-by so-called. documents to be sent to launch the first projects under this operational programme, which means that, I say only accreditation to Croatia, it has been recognised that it has had trained institutions that can manage this operational programme that can be launched. Therefore, the conditions were for meeting certain deadlines, but here as well as all institutions one question is listed as internal audit. Yes, it's an obligation, I think today it's the obligation of every company, as well as every institution to establish its internal audit. And as a representative of a single body who also had to form it, I also confirm that everyone had to form it that way. The bigger the ministry, the sooner they set up these internal audits so they could do business. So I can't give you that finding right now. But we won't get projects approved if we didn't meet it, and I say we stand by to launch projects and wait for the ratification of this Confirmation Agreement. That's what this issue is about with this other strengthening of institutions. So, this operational programme was done in 2007 and when it was decided on what to finance one part of these funds was primarily intended to strengthen the institutions that should be implemented by the Croatian Employment Institute, the Professional Education Agency as well as some other agencies, as the Agency for adult education, which must be trained to implement this programme and let's say regionally the branches of the Croatian Employment Institute so that they can implement some of the adult education programmes. So that's one part of the project that's listed here, which are potential projects to be implemented. And there are also social inclusion projects, so to help groups that have a more difficult access to the labour market, which are slightly more affected by labour market difficulties as women, in the Croatian case and young people, so we have a special priority for young people. So, this operational programme envisioned such programmes, so nothing prevents us from including some projects in the next operational programme, the extension of this operational programme, projects that will go to help some sectors to help restructure businesses. There are such ideas, of course. This is within the framework of an operational programme that was adopted at the end of 2007, so... In 2007, these priorities and measures were defined by the European Commission when they were established. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we cannot wander too much in the framework of the operational programme now because we have received funds intended for the measures that we have then decided, with which we have agreed with the European Commission and defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27444	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27445	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme for the development of human potential for community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance as part of the human potential development component in Croatia, the emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 245. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law on the confirmation of this agreement, not to read it again. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. Score. I find that most votes, 117 votes in favour and 3 abstentions are the adopted draft legislation on the approval of the agreement, i.e. P.Z. No. 245.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27446	Let's move on to point three. This is the final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities in connection with the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA – a component of transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2007, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 240 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. esteemed Hrvoje Dolenec, State Secretary of the Central Office for Development, Strategy and Coordination of the European Union Fund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27447	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The story is always the same at first for all IPA components, so I will start with a standard introduction, which is that we have a framework agreement on rules for cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of IPA approved on 3 October 2007, and concluded on 27 August 2007. On 20 December 2007, the Commission of the European Community adopted the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA programme - a component of transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2007 with so-called the IPA first component financing agreement. In June 2008, the draft financing agreement aimed at strengthening democratic institutions and the rule of law, reforming state administration, implementing economic reform, respect for human and minority rights, promoting gender equality, supporting civil society development, improving regional cooperation, reconciliation and reconstruction, sustainable development and poverty reduction was submitted. In addition, a large part of the funds focus on the adoption and implementation of the entire acquis of the European Union, and in particular on the preparation of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of cohesion and agricultural policy. Therefore, after accreditation in early November 2008, a financial agreement was signed in Zagreb on November 17th, Mr Vincent de Gert, on behalf of the European Commission delegation, and on behalf of the European Commission, and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Confirmation of this financing agreement is a legal basis for financing the projects proposed by the Republic of Croatia under the IPA programme. You received all the projects that entered the financial allocation for this year, i.e. the first component of 2007. The conditions necessary for the delivery of assistance to the European Community, the rules and procedures relating to payment relating to this aid and the conditions under which such assistance may be managed shall be laid down. The draft of this law requires the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, so co-financing is mandatory. The total value of the first component IPA programme for 2007 is 381.9 million kuna. IPA provides grants of 329.2 million kuna and the value of co-financing is 52.7 million kuna, which will be entered, which will be entered into the regular budget of individual authorities of the state administration. There, this is short for the introduction of this Proposal for a law on the validation of the Funding Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27448	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I see you don't. I'm opening a debate. And first they're clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27449	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, an associate, respected colleague and fellow MPs. The SDP therefore supports this bill as well. It is the same as the colleague said, the introduction is the same about the IPA programme, the first component – assistance in transition and strengthening institutions. The key document is therefore the National Programme to be adopted on an annual basis, i.e. The base and we have in kunas an indicative of about 360 million kunas available annually. This component is often said to be an invisible component. I'll talk about it a little later. It helps the state users to build administrative, judicial capacity, meet membership criteria. So, political, economic, legal, administrative. The construction and strengthening of institutions and investments related to the adoption and implementation of the Community acquis shall be covered. A little bit more like this, the national programme has the same priorities, political criteria, the fight against corruption, human rights protection of minorities, economic criteria, the ability to fulfil obligations for membership in the European Union, competition policy, information society and media, agriculture, energy, justice, freedom, security around, customs union, social policy and employment, and through accompanying programmes, the same important thing, participation in Community programmes of the European Union. When you look at the list of projects that are publicly available, you will see about implementation of competition protection policy, strengthening of Croatian Telecommunications Agency, managing and monitoring of agricultural funds, health and safety at work, strengthening the capacity of USKOK, strengthening the capacities of the Croatian Personal Data Protection Agency, combating smuggling and abuse of intoxicating others, and therefore co-financing of programs such as Tempus, the programme for lifelong learning... And so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I said it was an invisible component, then I'll actually say it again partially invisible because in the short term it can have invisible results, but in the long term in the case of proper implementation of these project activities, we'll also have a long-term benefit for the Republic of Croatia. I'd just like to mention one thing here, and I think it's crucial that the Parliament finally gets a list, this is where Tempus is mentioned, the list of current Tempus projects. I know the ZDURF isn't in charge of this, but through Tempus, projects for higher education have already gone, a lot of projects have been made, and the results of these projects are quite dubious and I think the Parliament should already know how they spend. Unfortunately, we were also forced to go from Tempus to Tempus because the Ministry of Science has been doing its job quite slowly related to the Integrated Action Plan for Lifelong Learning, and Tempus is a more unfavourable programme because much more partners require and much less money remains in Croatia when projects are being done through Tempus. I, this is going to be a brief debate, and now I'm going to repeat something that we at the SDP Club repeat every time there's talk about community programmes or pre-accession funds, the key factor here is government officials. And we will continue to say that because they have to be motivated, they have to be well paid, so officials who are dealing precisely with projects related to pre-accession funds and community programmes. Their work is growing from day to day because we are finally preparing for structural funds. It is a very dynamic job that requires constant learning and work for relatively low pay. It's a job you can't come to and say that after 2, 3 years you learned and you're already doing some things automatically, you have to learn constantly. What's the reward of a civil servant? The law that we will have as soon as possible on the salaries of civil servants may be awarded a one-time $3,000 reward for their work. And now the question is, how many would such people get to leave the state administration and go to the private sector? What I said at the last wheel, it's really happening. The representations of the strongest Irish and strongest Hungarian consulting houses will be opened very soon in Croatia. They're going to be looking for their frame somewhere and they're going to ask them to pull people from the state administration on a far higher salary because what I may be repeating may be rewarded by a state official with 3,000 kuna, in a private company, they may be rewarded with 3,000 euros. And we have already said once that with such private consulting houses, and we have an example of already state officials who have left the current SAFU before while the central unit was going to the private sector or for the European Commission to work on a far higher salary and that is a big, big problem that if we don't solve will bring us to a really one situation that we don't want to be at the moment when we start using structural funds. So, the key to the national component is to retain and well motivate officials who will work on projects because the Republic of Croatia cannot allow itself to lose the best experts from the state administration by entering the European Union because this will result in long-term irreparable damage that in financial terms will affect the use of structural funds, and I will once again, the structural funds are up to 10 times as much as we have now. Here it is, so short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27450	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27451	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So again, IPA, Croatia has been using funds since 2000, and I would like to point out here once again that it is the only country so far, and so it looks like it will remain which is at the same time managing 5 different aid programmes in the European Union. As much as I can agree with my colleague Mondekar, who claims that we need scientists and experts in the state administration, and as a person who worked with these people, I can say that we really have them and that despite the fact that they are civil servants, and as such treated as everyone else, that most of them and for the wages that our public service has, they do and do very well their jobs. In today's financial situation, it's hard to talk about how to raise wages, you said yourself we will have before us the Law on civil servants' salaries. There is also talk about how wages should be reduced, so there are proposals that don't go with each other, but what I agree on is that we should certainly continue to work on the education of people working in the state administration on funds and they will need more and more. And not only at the central government, but more and more at the local and county level, so when we become a member of the European Union, much more money will be on the table and many more projects will be at stake. However, it is not a question and it is not a challenge that stands before Croatia, other members have had the issue and have dealt with them in certain ways and there has been no disaster, so I am convinced with all the experiences that we have that Croatia, as it has done so far, will continue to do well. However, what I think is important to say about each program helps, so I will do it again here and here, that the use of funds for us who are at this stage preparing for membership has the least double benefit. On the one hand, we are preparing institutions for the management of more significant funds in the future, i.e. cohesion and structural funds, and on the other hand we are using today the available grants of the European Union that contribute to the implementation of the necessary transition reforms, but they are also preparing Croatia for membership in the European Union. So, the new IPA programme, its first component of assistance in transition and strengthening the institutions that we are discussing here today, covers largely what the PHARE programme had previously covered, and if I said for that earlier component of IPA "The development of human potentials", it is mainly focused on meeting the economic criteria for membership in the European Union in this case, it can be said that, to a large extent, as the PHARE has done, it is aimed at the first criterion, at meeting the political criteria, hence strengthening democratic institutions, the rule of law, the reform of state administration, the implementation of economic reforms, respect for human and minority rights, promoting gender equality, supporting the development of civil society but also improving regional cooperation and reconciliation and reconstruction. However, the third criteria for membership, and this is also the acceptance and implementation of the acquis, also supports and enables this first component of the IPA, which is certainly the implementation of the acquis and implementation of the European Union's agricultural and cohesion policy. This law which requires the Parliament to confirm the agreement in question in order to become a full legal basis for the implementation of the selected 17 projects lays down the conditions and rules under which the grants of the European Union and the part co-financed by the state budget can be used. The total IPA funds for the financial year 2007 are 329.2 million kuna and the co-financed part of the Croatian budget is 52.7 million kuna for a total of 17 projects. Since it is the grants we have received for the reforms needed in Croatia by experts from the Ministry of Finance, the Central Finance and Negotiation Agency, the Central State Office for the Strategy and Coordination of Funds and all implementing units in a number of other institutions is to continue to successfully implement projects, while further building on a long-term sustainable system of use of funds from European funds, and all in order for the Republic of Croatia to benefit from this pre-accession period and especially when it becomes a member of the European Union from that membership. For all this, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27452	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27453	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities in relation to the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Programme, the transition assistance component and strengthening of institutions for 2007, the emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 240. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law on the confirmation of the agreement as I have already quoted it. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law P.Z. No. 240 was accepted by most votes, 118 votes for and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27454	We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. - The proposal for a sustainable development strategy of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government submitted this Strategy pursuant to Article 44 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Environmental protection laws. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the proposal for a strategy. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Nikola Ružinski State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27455	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Declaration on Environmental Protection adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 1992 highlights the importance of establishing a principle of sustainable development in the Republic of Croatia. And also by signing more international documents, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to integrate a sustainable development policy in the vision of its development. So I'm just stating a few examples, it's an Agenda 21 which was in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, the Millennium Declaration and the Millennium Goals of 2000 from the United Nations General Assembly session or the 2002 World Meeting on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg. Under the Environmental Protection and International Obligations Act, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to integrate a sustainable development policy into the vision of its development in order to ensure the economic and social development of a society that respects the same opportunities and meeting the needs of future generations in order to ensure long-term conservation of the quality of the environment, biodiversity and landscape. The environmental law and that same law set out the objective and content of the strategy and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction shall be responsible for coordinating the development of the strategy. It is foreseen that the new strategy is being developed every ten years or earlier, it may occur on a proposal from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and all development documents for certain areas and activities must comply with this strategy. A draft proposal for a sustainable development strategy has been developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment Protection with the central authorities of the state administration responsible for business, health and social care, agriculture, forestry and water economy, for nature protection, for education, family and science, for tourism, transport and development, and in cooperation with the Central State Office for Development Strategy and the Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection Council. A public debate was held on the proposal for a 30-day strategy at the Internet ministry and two public debates were held at the time, so public awareness and two public debates, one in Zagreb and one in Osijek, and both were visited very well and we received a series of remarks, suggestions and suggestions written through or on these public discussions, and most of them were incorporated into this strategy. The updated change of strategy was sent to the second round and thus came to the government meeting and sent here to the Parliament for adoption. This strategy proposes and sets out guidelines for long-term action. It contains a brief analysis of the existing economic, social and environmental situation and contains fundamental principles and criteria in setting targets and priorities for the implementation of the long-term transformation of the Republic of Croatia towards sustainable development. This strategy, as well as other strategies implemented in the world under the United Nations provisions, recognises those three levels of economic, social and environmental so that those that represent the achievement of sustainable development, namely stable economic development, fair distribution of social opportunities and protection of the environment. The analysis of the existing situation in the Republic of Croatia recognized 8 key areas in which it should be looked at in the long term: Firstly, the growth of the number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, secondly, the environment and natural well-being, thirdly, the orientation of sustainable consumption and production, fourthly, the achievement of social and territorial cohesion and real, fifthly, the achievement of energy independence and energy efficiency, sixthly, the strengthening of public health, seventhly, the integration of the Republic of Croatia, transport and eighthly, the protection of the Adriatic Sea, coastal and island. Thematic indicators are listed to monitor the implementation of the strategy for each area. This purpose of thematic indicators is to analyse the processes in the Republic of Croatia, what trends are, that is, how the Republic of Croatia responds to the challenges of sustainable development, and whether positive developments have been achieved in the main problems. The strategy overlooked the development of action plans to implement the strategy, so through action plans. They will be done through the workshop, and these action plans will include details of the responsible for the implementation of individual plans and projects, responsible for achieving concrete objectives, means for implementing plans and projects, sources of funding, participants in the plan and project, deadlines for achieving the envisaged objectives, expected project results, and responses to monitor and implement plans and projects. Here, I'd like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27456	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Environmental Protection Committee, Honorary Maria Petir, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27457	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. At its 18th session held on 3 February 2009, the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Sustainable Development Strategy for the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the President of the Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 5 December 2008. On the basis of Article 84a of the Environmental Protection Committee, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal in question as a home working body. In the opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that the Republic of Croatia for sustainable development was defined in 1992 by adopting the Declaration on the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Croatia and the signing of several international documents from that area. It stressed that the basic principles and legal basis for the adoption of the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia were incorporated into the Environmental Protection Act which entered into force in 2007, and that it was adopted for a period of 10 years. The concept of sustainable development itself covers all areas of human activity, and the strategy's proposal sets out the basic objectives and measures of sustainable economic development, social development and environmental protection, and identifies key challenges in achieving them. 8 key challenges of sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia are the increase in the number of inhabitants, environmental protection and natural resources, sustainable production and consumption, the achievement of social and territorial cohesion and justice, the achievement of energy independence and efficient use of energy, the strengthening of public health, the even development of the Republic of Croatia, and the protection of the Adriatic Sea, coastal and island. It was also pointed out that two public debates were held, and the strategy's proposal was also available on the website of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction from 20 October to 18 November 2008. Since the comments received, part has been accepted and incorporated into the draft strategy. Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, the committee members pointed out that it was a general document following the guidelines of the Sustainable Development Strategy of the European Union. It is expressed concern that it is brought only for formal reasons, and that it will not have a significant impact on the development of the Republic of Croatia, and that the public has not been sufficiently involved. It has been pointed out that in some parts of the strategy's proposal, data should be specified and written observations on chapter 5 - Energy related to the production and consumption of biofuels and the use of renewable energy sources were submitted to the applicant. Furthermore, it is well noted that the Republic of Croatia will receive the Sustainable Development Strategy, as well as that new jobs should be created through the implementation of the sustainable development concept, protection of employees' social security, and protection of the environment, which is also covered by the strategy's proposal. It is also pointed out that 8 key challenges are well defined, especially for the population, because it makes no sense to adopt strategies and laws unless the Republic of Croatia has citizens. The problem of consumer habits, i.e. excessive consumption, which requires a change of habits at individual level, has been highlighted and noted that despite some shortcomings in the strategy's proposals, it is important to create a good framework for its implementation and to ensure the participation of the interested public and NGOs in the development of action plans as implementing documents. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a strategy for the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia, six votes for and three votes abstentioned. The Committee also unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is up to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction to include interested public and NGOs in drawing up action plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27458	Thank you. The Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, President-in-Office Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27459	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 10th session held on 27 January, the Croatian Committee for the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was addressed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee discussed the proposal in question as an interested working body. The proposer stressed that the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a Sustainable Development Strategy based on the Environmental Protection Act and the Declaration on the protection of the environment of the Republic of Croatia and on international documents derived from UN decisions and conferences. The strategy was held by two public discussions involving other associations, different associations. One public debate took place in Zagreb and the other in Osijek. The strategy contains fundamental principles and criteria for setting objectives and priorities in considering the long-term transformation of the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. The strategy shall also include the institutions involved in its implementation and how they are implemented, the responsibility for implementation, and the 4 means of monitoring the implementation. The strategy assumes 3 main objectives. Stable economic development, fair distribution of social opportunities and protection of the environment. The debate also shows support for such a strategy, and it is proposed that cooperation with our countrymen in the world be involved in the policy of sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. This is to achieve the integration of the country's evicted Croatia with the aim of economic development of the Croatian state. It was stressed that on the one hand the constitutional obligation towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and on the other hand the large economic, demographic and any other capacity that our countrymen have in the world. A strategy should also be developed to define the interrelationships of the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which will be in line with the strategic framework for the development of the Republic of Croatia and this Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to this, the fact that almost all the key challenges of achieving the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia according to this strategy are the promotion of the growth of the number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, the environment and natural goods, the orientation of sustainable production and consumption, the achievement of social and territorial cohesion and justice, the achievement of energy independence, the strengthening of public health, the integration of the Republic of Croatia and the protection of the Adriatic Sea, coasts and islands can also include the emigrated Croatia. Croatian emigration and Croats in neighbouring countries, Croatia's national minority and Croats, a sovereign and equal people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are also an important resource for the economic development of Croatian society and for the wider foreign interest of the Republic of Croatia. In the following debate, the same position on the place and role of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in the context of the strategy, this Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, was represented by representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The proposing representative explained in the follow-up to the session that the strategy will be implemented through action plans for individual areas, and that the implementation documents of the explicate strategy will include potential in which Croats are available outside the Republic of Croatia. In line with all this, after the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27460	Thank you. And the Committee on Gender Equality, the Honorable President of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At its 15th session, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the proposal for a sustainable development strategy of the Republic of Croatia as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative listed international documents which oblige the Republic of Croatia to adopt a Sustainable Development Strategy. It is stressed that the strategy's proposal unites different development policies in order to find suitable solutions for all three components of sustainable development: economic, social and environmental. The proposal for a strategy contains fundamental principles and criteria for setting goals and priorities in considering long-term transformation towards the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the basic objectives and measures of sustainable economic development, sustainable social development and environmental protection are set and key challenges are identified. The debate followed by the objection that the proposal for a strategy is too general and principled. In particular, this relates to gender equality policy. The proposed strategy is partly based on the Millennium Declaration of the United Nations, which provides an important place for gender equality. The need for further emphasis on gender equality and women empowerment through the whole text of the strategy proposal is therefore highlighted. Furthermore, the Committee members made several remarks in the section concerning social cohesion and justice and unfavourable demographic movements. The Advocate General for Gender Equality commented on the use of the term of two foster homes, believing that the availability of a child care system should be applied to all families, means single-murdering. The proposer further explained that the proposed strategy is general, but envisions the development of action plans which will specify in detail the implementation of the plans and projects envisaged by the strategy, the responsibility for supervision and implementation, the means of implementation, sources of funding, deadlines, as well as the expected results. After the discussion of the members and members of the board by majority vote, 5 for and 3 abstentions, they decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a strategy for the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27462	Thank you. And the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Honorable President of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27463	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Health and Social Care Committee discussed this item of the agenda as an interested working body under Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by a proposaling representative who pointed out that the concept of sustainable development is seen and covered as an area of human activity with a specific reference to the preservation of public health and human health. The proposal for a strategy sets out the basic objectives in the sustainable development of the economy, social development and environmental protection. In achieving the objectives of the strategy, an important place is to stop unfavourable demographic movement, environmental protection and private goods, sustainable production and sustainable consumption, the achievement of social and territorial cohesion and justice, and in particular we stress the strengthening of public health as well as the even development of the Republic of Croatia. Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, members supported the strategy as a framework development document in considering long-term transformation as the basis for all future strategies and documents that will contribute to the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of the strategy also requires the adoption of detailed action plans, which will include the implementation of individual projects, requires certain resources, sources of funding, participants, deadlines, and expected results, etc. It is pointed out that the strategy in all its segments, in an indirect and direct way, is related to the protection and preservation of human health. Developing a system of human health protection for scientific and professional knowledge, including environmental protection, is one of the most important objectives of the strategy. A quality health system and an effective and quality social care system are important factors in achieving stability and progress in the development of the Republic of Croatia. That is why, the board members point out, an important place in the strategy is taking up quality public health. The public health system should, in the opinion of the Committee members, be reorganised in such a way as to become the main holder of preventive activities and the institution of the implementation of all preventive programmes. In order to protect health effectively, care should also be taken of drinking water supply through the expansion of the public water system and should also be taken into account to increase the share of the population connected to public draining. In 2003, only 43% of the population were involved in public draining. In the population policy, the increase in the birth rate, the members of the Committee, in addition to activities in the field of health, the protection of motherhood and child care and family care, would be useful to raise the level of social security and quality of life of young families, and to implement measures that will contribute to the spiritual restoration and development of family values. During further discussion, the very important problem of the lack of health care providers, healthcare professionals, which is, among other things, the consequence of the way in which the health system is currently financed. The debate also highlights the need to protect and maintain space management in conditions of increased degree of construction, it is important to bring economic development into line with the requirements for the preservation and protection of space. In particular, this refers to the excessive urbanisation of cities without the development of adequate infrastructure at the same time. After the discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia in the text attached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27464	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I just want to meet the MPs and the MPs that we've got three clubs and 15 individually and we're going to be working this point until we finish it. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27465	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, colleagues. At the very beginning of this presentation, I would like to say that our club will vote with abstention on this document. Let me explain the reasons why the SDP club will vote on this document with abstention. I would like to remind you that the debate we are having today on this strategic document is four years late. In accordance with the conclusions of the Conference on Sustainable Development held in 2002 in the South African city of Johannesburg, which was adopted by representatives of Croatia, we have committed ourselves to the adoption of the National Sustainable Development Strategy by 2005. Should we say that today is the beginning of 2009. The only reason the SDP club will not vote against this document is because we have been waiting for this extremely important strategic document for so long, so we need to welcome the fact that we now have such a text of strategy, because it is at least better viewed from the position of international relations and commitments that we have at least some kind of sustainable development strategy than any one. But the indisputable fact is that this document has a whole series of extremely large shortcomings. We believe that one of the greatest shortcomings in this document is his indeterminateness and indeterminateness. The proposal for a strategy is similar to the list or list of beautiful desires, and the creator of the strategy of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction did not even follow the structure common to strategic documents, which is a demonstration of the current situation, the sum of analysis, the definition of the problems and objectives that the strategy aims to achieve, the phase of implementation of the strategy, the definition of stakeholders and the framework strategy of action as well as the necessary tactical tools for implementation of the strategy. However, what may be the biggest weakness of such a structured strategy is the lack of time course of the implementation of the strategy with clearly indicated methods of measuring the effectiveness of the implementation of this extremely important strategic document. In particular, it is extremely important for the success of any strategy that clearly and comprehensibly certain objectives that must be specific and measurable and that unequivocally defined responsibilities for the implementation of objectives, financing of implementation and deadlines are unambiguously defined. Unfortunately, this proposal for a strategy is not the case. As a result, in the SDP club, we conclude that this document was done in a pattern or to use a slightly rougher term by the "copy paste" method, and there is no doubt that, as a template for the domestic strategy, the EU Strategy for Sustainable Development has served. The problem is that the National Strategy cannot, and the difference between transnational strategies such as those of the European strategy remains on the list of very general good wishes. The next great weakness of this document is the regrettable ineligibleness of this document, which should be the roof strategic document of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would dare even say the most important strategic document of the state behind which implementation should stand firmly by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and not one of the less important ministries. I stress that a country's sustainable development strategy should be a roof document to set up a starting point for all other strategic documents such as the Energy Strategy, but also all other sectoral strategies. Sustainable development involves mutual permeation and implementation of projects and programmes in which social, economic and environmental protection components are equally important. This is extremely important in terms of the country's strategic commitment to some of the priority economic practices in which, apart from the profitable, economic development aspect, it must have a socially balanced and socially fair and environmental protection aspect. Unfortunately, this document does not show what are the fundamental sustainable economic branches or practices that the state plans to encourage priority, and through them in practice to realise the real policy of sustainable development, and this should be the main purpose of this document. This strategy should represent a vision of the progress of our country's society as a whole. Sustainable development of requirements interdepending on the social economic and environmental components of development. To implement such a plan is not enough just to implement different policies but it is necessary to build principles into the everyday life of Croatian citizens. The challenge that represents the creation of the Sustainable Development Strategy is not simple at all, and it must be approached with much attention and determination. However, the objectives of the development of a society that would meet the needs of the current generations without jeopardising the future of this strategy often act only as good wishes, especially if the legislator does not specify abstract principles, and this strategy is unfortunately such a case. In addition, it should be noted that certain parts of the document relating to certain sectoral policies such as the energy chapter in this strategy are not in line with the specifics of the Energy Strategy proposal, which should also be discussed in this House soon. That's what you're supposed to say is leading to the reflection of these two documents. We therefore consider it necessary to accept and present the Sustainable Development Strategy as a roof document which obliges all other ministries and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to avoid the creation of strategic documents that do not comply with this strategy. Furthermore, aspects of the current situation or the assessment of the current situation in the strategy have been processed in an insufficiently precise and undefined way that does not provide a good starting basis for defining the problem and concrete proposals for improving the existing situation. There is no mention of what the current situation is, unfortunately, a very bad situation regarding the implementation of the sustainable development policy in Croatia, which would also refer to the number of developed and adopted local Agendas twenty-one, analysis and assessment of the quality of these documents, i.e. whether local Agendas twenty-one are adopted in Croatia for formal and promotional reasons only and if it does not ultimately come down to so-called. Green plans that are still significantly narrow and unambitious than what should be one local Agenda 21. In other words, although the opening part of the strategy mentions the Johannesburg Conferences and the obligations arising for the Republic of Croatia from the Millennium Declaration and Millennium Development Goals, there is no mention of what is done or seems to be done in Croatia. In order for the strategy to be implemented, it is necessary to integrate it into legislation in such a way as to create effective incentive mechanisms for the implementation of the strategy. But there's not a word about it in the strategy. As an example of poor domestic practice in this regard, I will state the Public Procurement Act which is a key tool for achieving responsible business in the private sector, and in Croatia, although it has been relatively recently amended, it has not introduced a single measure in this regard. In the SDP club, we believe that it is necessary in the Public Procurement Act, but also in other regulations such as the Environmental Fund and Energy Efficiency Act, to introduce criteria of responsibility that many EU countries cite in sustainable development strategies, and to make them easier, which would have a positive impact on the wider application of responsible practices. It should be pointed out that the document that we are discussing today is not exactly the most recent information, so the chapter describing the current situation is about low inflation and further reducing the budget deficit. Given that our country is already fat in today's economic crisis, which is manifested as a recession, we believe it is necessary that the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Environmental Protection respect the objectively difficult economic circumstances in which the country is located, as the content of the strategy depends crucially on it. Of course, on the assumption that we are bringing this document in the desire of Croatia's real movement towards sustainable development, not formally, that is because it is expected of us as a country that strives for certain civilization achievements. The part of the strategy that speaks about the population of the Republic of Croatia describes the catastrophic demographic state of our country, but extremely abstract measures. The author of the strategy shows a lack of idea when it comes to solving this problem. In other words, a lot of good wishes, but not one specific guideline to achieving certain goals. Thus, the author wanted to implement a good and sustainable economic policy and to increase the birth rate by direct and indirect measures of population policy. The problems of extinction in the population are extremely complex. There is a need for cooperation between different sectors and with concrete objectives, actions and guidelines. We consider it necessary in this document to be mentioned, and with the aim of discussing and moving the working-age population from other countries. Exceptional abstraction outlines the identification of institutions involved in the implementation of this chapter of the strategy. It's about universities, institutes and NGOs. We ask the question couldn't the exact institutions of the organisations that will participate in the implementation be listed? The following review is contained in the paragraph on emissions of harmful gases into the air. In its description, it is pointed out that a state network for the permanent monitoring of air quality has been established, but that it needs to be upgraded. However, there is no word on the upgrade of the network in terms of objectives and measures. In this part, environmental and economic protection components could be very well connected. For example, measures which explicitly require industry to reduce the exact percentage of air gas emissions over a period of time with a clear explanation of the viability of such a decision as well as how to implement the measures. To achieve this connection, the ministry's co-operation is needed, and it was obviously insufficient in drawing up the document. One of the measures in the sustainable production and consumption chapter says tourists should be attracted and eco-tourism developed. Imagine, tourists should be attracted. This beautiful desire continues with the desire of authors to compete and increase efficiency, while at the same time reducing the risk to people and the environment. Who wouldn't want something like that? Yet, without concrete means of achieving such desires, this expression of ambition in a strategic document does seem at least unserious. It is also abstractly continued through the chapter on social cohesion and justice. The author tells us that it is necessary to ensure the gradual growth of pensions, improve the material and social position of defenders, increase the possibility of hiring people with disabilities, ensure a better position of women in society. Again, the problem is that these general objectives in the strategy are shown as concrete measures and activities. The lack of co-operation between the ministry is evident quite as I have already mentioned in the energy section. The strategy states that renewable energy sources do not have a proper share and position in Croatia's energy, and the situation will not particularly improve the proposed energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia. The activities of this chapter are more tendencies according to certain results than actual measures. The other chapters were also filled with abstraction without concrete measures to address the specific problems of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the proposer speaks about the assumptions of further development and says that an effective state is necessary, which means the effective institutions that represent and involve all citizens. Does this mean that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must represent all citizens, or is it responsible for the words of Prime Minister Sanader to those who chose it? And finally to conclude, it is questionable how much benefit can the Republic of Croatia benefit from such a strategy? The components that are key to sustainable development, social, economic and ecological are not at all linked, but only separately presented problems within each component and very inconclusive and without any real idea of how to solve them. So here, above all, we need to talk about tendencies or desires, but about ways to solve problems. Following everything previously said, the SDP club cannot support the adoption of such an undefined and extremely pro-document form, and the only reason we will be abstention and abstention when voting on this document is that we no longer have to blush in front of the world community represented by the United Nations for failing to fulfil long-standing international obligations, which is, we believe, a very sad reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27466	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorary Representative Vedran Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27467	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The quality of life of generations that will inherit us depends on the conditions of their lives by our present conduct. But most important of all, we must realize that in the future we must think and not allow us to pursue it in a way that is neither of our own control nor of our own. In this respect, the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia is a necessary document without which the thinking of our future would not be possible. Of course, it is not realistic to expect that all the desired goals will be fully achieved, but it is important to know what is wanted, to have confidence and to be courageous, to want and what seems unfulfilled. Croatia, as we live today, once looked just like a beautiful dream, and what it might be in the future. According to the proposal for a sustainable development strategy of the Republic of Croatia, assumptions for a good future exist. The strategy takes a very close look at the possible impacts on all 8 important areas of action since the growth of the population of the Republic of Croatia, through environmental and natural goods, on sustainable production and consumption, the achievement of social and territorial cohesion and justice, the achievement of energy independence and efficiency growth, the use of energy and the strengthening of public health, and the integration of the Republic of Croatia and the protection of the Adriatic Sea, coastal and island. When all of these 8 key topics are more detailed, they all come together to a single important challenge, how to manage space in a balanced and sustainable way, especially in a country where protected areas cover 8.54% of the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia, and thus express landscape diversity which, according to the strategy, threatens uniform and ambitious urbanisation, location and architecturally inappropriate construction, large infrastructure operations and agricultural activity. Personally, I do not think that such an assessment is due to "only architects and spatial planners", but the fact is that the entire space of the Republic of Croatia represents our natural well-being, and that we should particularly protect agricultural areas, forests and water. The negative effects on the area are obvious on the Adriatic coast where the trend of urbanisation leads to the usurpation of the coastal area, and even maritime goods, and economic planning is significant in the face of too much spatial planning. In principle, sustainable development as a syntagma is based on a balanced and good relationship between targeted interests, stable economic development, social quality relations and preserved values of space. Of course, such a relationship is always the result of a compromise but not the one to the harm but the one to the benefit. In order to achieve this strategy as a very comprehensive document, but only at the level of the principles set, it must be continued as soon as possible to develop a number of necessary action plans that would be applied specifically by postulate strategies at local and regional self-government levels. In this regard, it is very important to point out that the strategy was created and based on consultations with many NGOs, but the debate of this species never quite. From the activities or measures to achieve the main objectives with concrete objectives, I shall assess the specific needs of the first wish, even the obligation to stop the loss of land and marine biodiversity by 2010, and to increase the number of protected areas, under 2. to adopt a regulation to establish a landscape base of the Republic of Croatia, under 3rd in the planning and planning and use of natural resources, to ensure the preservation of significant and characteristic features of landscapes and to maintain biological, geological and cultural values that determine its meaning and aesthetic experience. Under the 4th economic measures, ensure the exploitation of abandoned spatial reserves through the revitalisation of abandoned urban areas and the transformation and resolution of industrial zones with shut down production, and support better exploitation of populated areas by their internal development. Under 5. use of space is based on comprehensive management rather than just putting under protection. Under the 6th planning development of the settlement, seek to reduce the growth of large cities and functionally train medium and smaller cities with 7-30 thousand citizens. Under 7. encourage development models that, in line with the features of space, improve the situation in it and, while preserving the physical and ecological integrity of resource areas. Finally and 8 major infrastructure systems develop functional integration of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Keeping in mind all the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal for a sustainable development strategy of the Republic of Croatia with the belief that all other documents that continue in the units of local and regional self-government on this main strategic document will be drawn up as soon as possible and implemented in everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27468	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27469	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. We at the HSS Club believe that the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia is certainly one of the most important strategic documents this Croatian Parliament brings. For this reason, of course, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will also support the adoption of this document, which has already been adopted by other European countries and, of course, in line with the recommendations of the Commission for Sustainable Development of the United Nations and the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. It is in line with the European Union's Sustainable Development Strategy, which includes three basic pillars of sustainable development, namely economic development, social development and social sensitivity and environmental and nature conservation. As has already been said, it consists of eight key sustainability challenges in the Republic of Croatia, and based on an analysis of these areas, further development assumptions have been made for the purpose of monitoring the implementation of the strategy, the thematic indicators for achieving sustainable development have also been given. Sustainable development is a development that meets the needs of the present and at the same time does not endanger future generations' ability to meet their needs. It is a development that promotes job creation, protects the social security of employees and protects the environment. If we take this programme seriously, we would need to change the lifestyle and wastefulness so far and replace it with savings and in times of credit cards, allowed minuses and comprehensive marketing manipulations, this change requires education, education, strong will and built personality that will be able to resist the attacks of consumerism, and, of course, the typical human desire to acquire excessive material goods. In fact, sustainable development is impossible without a change in unsustainable consumer habits that generate unsustainable production. In order to achieve long-term sustainability, it is therefore necessary to consider social relations, politics and the economy on another basis. It is correctly stressed that greater participation of citizens in these processes is a prerequisite for achieving the idea of a sustainable society because sustainable development does not only involve engagement on a global and local level but also on an individual personal level. In the HSS, we support the conclusion of the Environment Protection Committee that the development of action plans in these eight areas defined by the strategy should include the interested and professional public and not government associations. This is important because this document aims to show a long-term vision of Croatia's development with unsustainable principles and that requires the contribution of all not only those in power. The stabilisation of the population is thus the first key area of this strategy. Without people, none of the plots can be realized and it is pointless to think of a vision for a country without a population. In fact, the black forecasts warn that beautiful ours by 2050 could lose as many as 700 thousand inhabitants. The main objective in the area of sustainable production and consumption is to achieve a balanced and stable growth of the economy while in the area of social cohesion and justice it is to achieve a socially inclusive society that is characterized by solidarity both within generations and among generations and where diversity is respected. In these eight key areas there are both energy and the strategy proposal aims at ensuring sufficient energy with the necessary adaptation to limit the growth of energy costs and negative impacts on the environment and society. We believe that Croatia needs to ensure energy independence so that in the future we do not depend on the will of a country. We believe that our country has great potential in the production of renewable energy, and in the production it was fuel and that segment in the strategy should certainly be completed. That this area is extremely interesting and can be witnessed in person, because at the time I acted as mayor in Sisak-Moslavina County, we have just launched a project that has now become a project of reflection across Croatia, which is to co-finance the procurement of solar collectors for citizenship with the help of the CARDS project we have educated the unemployed, so people who were at the Service for Service Employment, i.e. installers of these solar collectors, and thus we have shown how education for the environment can be wonderfully connected with what Croatia has as potential, and these are renewable sources of energy, and how exactly through this sector environmental and energy protection can be opened and new jobs. The main objective in public health which is certainly a significant segment of this strategy is to preserve and improve health and the overall population, ensure access to health services, and prevent them. Of course, however, this area also raises many questions. What is particularly interesting to us is the question of the status of the immune institution, which is unfortunately in a very difficult financial situation, and we believe that the immune institution should be helped, because if it remains in this poor financial state, it will endanger its own production of the vaccine, which we think would certainly not be good for Croatia. The situation in public health is also interesting from the point of view of the improvement indicators exposed to residents of different factors affecting their health, especially when it comes to cancers, and we believe that this statistics should be improved, i.e. that it should be kept much more up-to-date in order for the data coming from public health to really be the basis for the adoption of timely measures. I can say that's certainly the most interesting part in a segment that covers contaminants that come from different industrial plants and that are the cause of different improvements. If we are getting late data from two to three years, then it is a serious problem and it does not give us enough space to intervene and help our citizens in a timely manner, because I think it is primarily the interest of all of us that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are healthy. It is good that the strategy states that agricultural production should be returned to the level before the Homeland War. And we welcome that, because we believe that agriculture can certainly be the development branch of the Republic of Croatia. We also see a special chance in this financial crisis, because we believe that smart people can use the financial crisis for their own benefit, which means resisting imports, over-importing of agricultural products and domestic peasant indigenous products in tourism but also in the European market. The Adriatic protection is also identified as a key area in the proposal for a Sustainable Development Strategy, and there are well-defined pressures that are exposed to excessive construction, the need to protect the fish fund, the risk of ballast water and nautical tourism. The sustainable development strategy should at least be a vision of Croatia as it wishes and should be. Not only according to the wishes of its inhabitants, but within a much wider context of the international community and efforts to curb an accelerated ecological crisis. Whether or not this document will be modified and will show time, or its implementation. I would say that today's Western civilization is faced with a question of real scale, or balance between material and immaterial goods, property time and space prosperity. A new model of prosperity in order to make some suggest a slower, less, better, more beautiful. Finally, the question is, what do we really need? Money, houses, cars, full closets or on the other hand family and friends, specifically whose construction requires time that we have less and less due to the race for profit. But to that question, everyone must find the answer independently of the strategy. It is clear, then, that this is a question without the preservation of an eco-system that allows us to survive quite excessively. The most important thing is that the Republic of Croatia finally received a document that should allow it to recognise its own direction in which it should go. Sustainable development means a comprehensive change in the current way of production as well as consumption, relations within society and relations with the environment and nature. The strategy well analysed key challenges as well as measures, but as always, the issue of implementation remains, i.e. through all sectors that will not be implemented in a satisfactory manner unless it is recognised that it is a fundamental document that provides the basis and direction of other sectoral policies, and if real political support is missing. If we are truly aware of the importance of this document, it will show how ready we are to change the direction so far. On a personal level, that would be what we usually call a lifestyle. Politically, this means a commitment to fostering those economic activities that create new jobs, protect the social security of employees and protect the environment. Today, the global and financial economic crisis in the first place, unlike an ecological crisis that, by the potential catastrophic consequences, can far overcome them. Croatia is not a major polluter in global terms. However, if we accept the Wing of Think Globally, act locally, we will have to admit that we are also making a contribution. Whether it will be a deterioration in the state of the ecosystem of planets at local and state level or a contribution to the solution, it will show seriousness as well as commitment to the transformation of Croatian society according to the principles of sustainable development. In this strategy, the strategy provides a diagnosis, a realistic scoreboard, says what needs to be done, brings indicators to measure what is achieved, but there is no answer to the key question how. The answer to this question should be given by action plans, and in this sense we in the HSS expect all stakeholders and NGOs to be involved in its creation. Namely, the inequality between the people, but also within one society, poverty, hunger, illiteracy, disease and the growing ecological crisis due to the damage to the eco-systems on which the survival of the human species depends, are the reality of the world in which we live today. The concept of sustainable development is a society with balance, balance, harmony. This is an ideal that needs to be pursued in setting up a further development direction, not just for individual countries but for all countries of the world, and therefore each country is invited to make a contribution, just like the tenants of a building that brings their home order so that they can live together in harmony. In fact, we've all been living in Croatia, America, Africa, Europe's tenants of a house. It should not be forgotten that both economics and economics come from the Greek word "oikos" which means house, home. So both sciences are looking for answers to the question of how to regulate relationships in our common house. At international level together, and each country individually by harmonising development and environmental protection, we can ensure that basic human needs are covered, improve living standards and protect eco-systems, thus ensuring not only a better life for the present generations, but also the survival of future ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27470	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS club, distinguished representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27471	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is something I will briefly say about the Sustainable Development Strategy itself, that is, the strategy proposal itself. First of all, I'd say it's a document that's needed. The fact is that we are already said to be late by the adoption of this document and I want to believe that we are not bringing this document because of certain documents of the United Nations, the Council of Europe, but because of ourselves, and all in the desire to change the situation we are assessing and in the very assessment of the present situation that is not good. What I would also like to say at the beginning is that the proposal for this strategy may be too principled and general, that there are no action plans, deadlines for implementing certain measures, coordination, I would say to all those from local level, regional level and to state level, NGOs. So all those in debt or should implement this strategy. It is, of course, necessary to define the resources necessary for the implementation of this strategy, as well as the time period of implementation. And I would argue that, over the course of a year, this House has been informed of what has been done, what moves have been made, because we are all aware that a condition that is now not good is. Here I will remain very brief on the protection and sustainable management of space. This is one of the important priorities in this strategy and we certainly know that we are witnessing an irrational space management, an uncontrolled urbanisation, I will say especially in the coastal part, illegal construction, apartmentisation, concreteisation of the coast, devastion of landscapes, in particular I would say lack of awareness about traditional values and natural and construction heritage. And what distinguishes us from many other countries, I would say, is still a preserved space, is that Croatian Adriatic is one of the most preserved in the Mediterranean, is that we are one recognizable tourist destination, I would say the space where the resources of our future are. Normally, this condition and illegal construction and apartmentisation and concreteization of the coast need to be stopped and the question of certainly this excessive construction that is on stage today, whether this excessive construction is influenced by social motives or under the pressure of capital that are often speculatively profitable in nature. I would point out that part of the population provides for demographic recession, the current number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia we know that it is 4.4 million. By 2050, unless normally measures are taken to make the drop almost a million, it is estimated to mean 3.6 million people. And then there's the question of everything that I've been saying, over-building, who we're building it for, and that's what it takes at this point in the way it's done. Of course, this strategy lacks other strategies. We know that a strategy is made up or the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia is under discussion and it would certainly be good for all of these strategies, i.e. that this sustainable development strategy is on the roof and that the other strategies rely on a sustainable development strategy. Because surely, if we are talking about renewable energy sources, then it would be worth mentioning that the state, but other institutions should also encourage the production of energy from renewable energy sources. I would especially mention that solar energy, but also wind power and other renewable sources, unlike what is offered in the energy strategy, which is the production of electricity from the thermal power plants to coal which, we say, is hardly mentioned in Europe today, especially as some new energy sources or nuclear power generation or the production of energy from the mules, i.e. we can say from fossil fuels. Here, I would like to advocate that this strategy, with the necessary work done by this debate, will be supported by us as a club of IDS, but certainly within a year in this House, we will receive a report which has been made, which is also done in spatial, but also in all the other segments that are indicated here. So, if we were going to improve the situation together, and we would only be able to improve it if we start from local level, then regional levels to the state level, with certainly including all I would say NGOs, but also professional associations of all those who want to help both space and all the values that the Republic of Croatia has for the future today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27472	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, the distinguished representative Zdenko Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27473	Dear Vice President, distinguished secretary, colleague and fellow MPs. More and more often, whether we are talking about the economy and the economy, whether we are talking about social well-being or about environmental protection, protection of cultural heritage, we are talking about sustainable development. Some sustainable development is defined as a dynamic economy with full employment, economic, social and territorial cohesion, a high degree of education for citizens, a high degree of health protection and environmental protection. The European Union points to the necessary gradual changes in the current unsustainable way both production and consumption and the increasingly integrated approach of all the components of sustainable development. With respect to national resources, available human potentials can be agreed that the Croatian economy ceases to record the upward trend, that we expect the growth of gross domestic product between zero and 2%, closer to 0%. Growth of unemployed, decline in investment, reduced capital flow. At the same time, we have oscillations of energy prices and food that have an additional adverse impact on inflation, but above all on economic growth. Dependence on import energy, food because in time we didn't want to talk about self-sufficiency, and it makes us very dependent. The decline of the total population and the average ageing population will further slow down economic development, as the only overall rise in the level of education, labour force primarily due to requirements for the application of new technologies and orientation to more complex production processes can ensure progress. The key challenges of achieving sustainable development are in the long run aimed at key eight areas defined by the normal strategy. I'm not going to repeat them here, but I just want to point out some segments. I would like to point to natural goods and the environment, to focus on sustainable production and consumption, and to achieve energy independence, including energy efficiency. Croatia has been threatened daily by the trend of urbanisation by usurping and reducing agricultural areas, to the construction of roads, settlements, economic facilities. On the other hand, there is no development without certainly developing the infrastructure mentioned and without good coordination of economic and spatial planning. In addition, available agricultural areas are underused and low levels of agricultural production are achieved, as shown by predecessors. The result of such a situation is the lack of the necessary agricultural products, large imports of food and high prices. We want to change this without modern technology and, in line with sustainable development, it will certainly not be easy. Croatia has small emissions per capita and relatively small greenhouse gas emissions. Personally, I have to say that I'm not happy, because if it means breathing certainly a better quality air, that's what it is. But that just means that we don't have economic activity, above all, industrial activity, and that with renovation and industrialization, it's going to change, and we need to make sure that we don't get the cleanest and take care of new technologies so that the situation doesn't get much worse. Because if I say so myself, we don't pollute a lot and get across the border, and that's why it's very important to take care of air pollution. Very little is said about the increase in car, urban transport as a major polluter, which does not satisfy our and our fuel fully European standards. And looking at the cities of greenhouse gas emissions shows a trend in growth. To achieve a balance in meeting human needs and to improve the quality of life by minimising the use of natural resources, creating toxic substances and emissions into the air, water and soil requires a lot of knowledge, looking for high technologies and certainly measuring and controlling consumption by creating smaller quantities of waste and creating less pressure on nature. We often refer to organic farming as well. Unfortunately, we have to say that organic farming today affects below 10,000 or less than 1% of the farmland. And whatever they all say is the future is certainly without harmonising all resources, soil, labour, knowledge, but there are no major shifts in markets as well. Economic growth must certainly not go to the burden of waste generation when it is difficult to recycle and resuscitate existing landfills and waste. Certainly without improving the education structure of the population, while harmonising education with market requirements, regional development must aim at a balanced development with the aim of making rural areas and inefficient agriculture a place of employment and general implementation of active policy. Without quality and security of energy supply, as much as possible to guarantee sustainable development and how much dependence on energy or energy use and a happy impact on society's environment, while at the same time it can prevent development unless we take care of the sufficientness and use of energy in due time. I would like to note here that the strategy mentions Directive 30 of 2003. The European Union which obliges us by 2010 that we should have a share of bioenergy in total transport consumption of 5.8%. Unfortunately, we mention the total energy not bioenergy and not transport energy, so we should draw attention and try again to comply with Directive 30/2003. Because the difference is total energy, the difference is bioenergy, and the difference is the energy in transport, which certainly binds us, and I don't think that this segment in the strategy is well defined, so once again, please check. I won't talk about other renewable sources, wind, sun, geothermal sources or particularly biomass. Because surely the new strategy will, or rather, say the energy strategy that is in preparation, define all of this and ensure that sufficient care is taken of sustainable development. But I have touched only really some areas where, without serious implementation plans, without coordination within all necessary segments, there will be no development, let alone sustainable development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27474	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27475	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. I'm counting on me to understand what's under a document called the strategy implies. So, we want an account to establish a framework that will guarantee that some programs that we want to put inside are realized for a certain time and so on, and when I take it in a Colloquial or freely, then I'm clear that this is an important document, I'm clear that it is, it seems professionally demanding, I'm clear that on current Croatian occasions it is socially necessary and I'm clear that it is and must be a politically responsible document. Now, what I am not in the clear, Secretary of State, I understand that the Republic of Croatia needs a development strategy. Is this or does it have to be some kind of development strategy as the general framework in which this fits in? That I don't know now, it's probably not necessary, but I need an explanation to make myself more intelligent than this document. There's one more thing I want to add here. This document and even the development strategy can't be, I'm convinced that I can't be done for form and I simply, I don't think, of course, that this was done for form, but some of the contents are, I'm not convinced that they can be good and easy to implement by themselves. So, it can't be for form, it can't be non-binding, and what I just said, it can't be inconclusive. I would like to see in this document that development progress is shaped and guaranteed. Now I've been a bit of a fuse in general, but you understand what I'm talking about. I'd like to say in this document it's so much better and more picturesquely drawn, I'm afraid I have the impression that's not the case. Now, let's define this issue of strategy as a document. We, as the SDSS club, will support this document because we are convinced that such a document is necessary even when I see and recognize certain shortcomings in it. I'll be free here so I can open, say, some questions or some questions for me when I talk about this strategy or when I read it, and then I'll be asked some questions, and I'll allow each of us to say some other questions. They're in this case of mine what are we trying to achieve with this document? I guess that's where we want to recognize the programs, so that we can indicate the carriers, that we can determine the responsibility and that we can simply see it. Secondly, how realistic and realistic is it based on an existing development concept? So I just said, is it a roof document or is it part of the document of the development programme of the Republic of Croatia that we have yet to bring? The third question that I kind of get, how much and how do we understand the slogan of sustainable development? I can say for a chance that I'm here, I understand what's going on, but this isn't about us just figuring out what's going on. This document should make it clear to me that those who understand less what they're talking about, that they understand what sustainable development is. Next question I'm going to say here, are we aware of the gaps? I suppose we're all aware here, but I'm saying this in relation to the document, are we aware of the spreads of sustainable development relative to the release of space from Karlovac to Sinj? And if there are no concrete answers to that question or question in this respect, then I'm afraid a little. And yet another question that I don't understand, you probably do, I'll ask it here. I assume that behind this strategy follow operational documents that necessarily come out of its contents and out of those obligations. I'd like this strategy to make it clear what the operating documents are, is that supposed to be? I'd have to say, I wouldn't be surprised if it wasn't, but then who are they? Now, in that respect, it is, therefore, on these issues, or on these issues, that my doubt arises that, either my conclusion or my fear, however you wish, that this strategy is a bit general. Maybe she doesn't have to be different or she can be different, but, well, I should have a little bit of an explanation for why that is? Let me be allowed a little bit, and I'll quote here some of the content that I've prescribed from the strategy, including the institutions of the state administration's body to implement the specifics of the strategy. So a little further, these same bodies continue to have a dialogue with stakeholders, develop and propose policies and strategies and so on, implement plans, projects to achieve concrete objectives. Then you have a continuing body of local self-government playing a vital role in achieving the main goals, then it promotes sustainability with its own agendas 21 and that I don't strangle you any further. I feel like I'm reading a theoretical textbook. I'm gonna let it happen right here, but I'm thinking maybe it's not necessary. If we want to do a development strategy that's recognizable, which is clear and from which we see what's going on, because I guess some plans go beyond that. I'm going to say one more thing here that I know better than any other thing. When we talk about sustainable development, let's say I draw the next conclusion. If in return problems now you have hectares of a country that are not being treated seems to me and strategically and operationally there is no better solution than to bring the owner to the country's processing and we do not have such a performance now, we do not have such an operational plan. We even have other plans, we'll bring in some others who don't really know what to do with it. But you wouldn't, that's another question now. Now I'm taking this all down to the next one. We will support this strategy. I wish she were less textbooks and a more clear plan and a clear framework of development to sustainability and that I see in that are the operating documents that have to be passed because I am counting, if not adopted then this strategy will sort of hang like a hanger in the closet. Forgive this observation but I think so, and I would like it to be made so, accepted so that it can be spent much better than these fears I have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27476	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then it's time for the Honorable Representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27477	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will start my few minutes somewhere from the end of this strategy and with what is written on page 40 which speaks about the implementation of the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the integration of the Dionyk. In this section, it is therefore mentioned that the strategy is being developed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, its proposal is being considered by the Government and adopted by the Assembly and that this strategy will then be implemented through action plans which will contain details of the responsible for the implementation of individual plans and projects, for the achievement of concrete objectives, the necessary means to implement plans or projects, sources of funding of plans and projects, etc. Basically, I've already said it at board meetings, but here we are today. So my personal objection is that we here today have a document that is actually insufficient to be able to determine in the right way according to what he should actually be for the Republic of Croatia and that is precisely because what I have just read is missing. This document lacks exactly that implementing part, concreteisation, plans to know exactly what time-limit some of these objectives, principles and I don't know what all of the projects are going to achieve, who is responsible for that, within which deadline and how much financial resources are needed to achieve it. So we're bringing in an over-general document that actually kind of looks like, that's where they agreed, counted some times already several times here and said nice wishes, good intentions to say so. However, how and how they will be realized here, there is no word. Who will discuss how this strategy is implemented? Will any report ever take place on the implementation of this Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia come back to us here on the benches whether someone has spent or not. Unfortunately, I'm sure it won't come back to the bench just because we're missing that part. Now we don't know who's responsible for what, who's going to be in charge of what, what time they should do something, what means they're going to have. Therefore, my vote, as already said on behalf of the SDP Club, in relation to this document that we are otherwise very late with, will be made clear to all of us, so it will be restrained. Furthermore, what I am, my basic remarks, I will stick to the part relating to the problem I am covering, which is the problem of gender equality, the position of women, the implementation of certain national policies brought by this Croatian Parliament. In its opening part, this strategy is, among other things, relying on the Millennium Declaration adopted by the United Nations, which therefore sets out the development objectives in areas which are of interest to the entire community and the activities that should contribute to their achievement. Since within this Millennium Declaration gender equality is one of the most important areas, I see no reason why both politics and implementation and our national policy to promote gender equality is not much better or to express myself in a much more visible way through this strategy. At the beginning of the second chapter of this strategy, it is said that sustainable development assumes the achievement of three general objectives, stable economic growth, fair distribution of social opportunities, and protection of the environment. I am holding on to this alone that the issue of promoting national gender equality policy would be at least in some principled setting. After all, all other policies are precisely in these principles and placed within this strategy. So I don't see any reason not to fall into all these three areas because many international research, if you want the latest results of the International Conference, has recently held 3. The Global Congress of Women in Politics in Management on Women's and Climate Change in Manila last October, a delegation and the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality took part in the work of the conference. So they showed that the question of women's position in society is undeniable, not only of social nature but also of the development of the economy and of environmental protection. Therefore, I see no reason to respect and welcome the fact that you have accepted certain things through or through some recommendations and suggestions through the amendments to the Governments and will be incorporated into this strategy but I do not see any reason at first in that part of page 4 where you are talking about the principles of orientation, or what are the principles which will be led by the Republic of Croatia towards sustainable development, you have not listed politics or the promotion of gender equality, which is more so than gender equality is one of the fundamental constitutional categories or values. And in that sense, I have made one amendment and I kindly ask that until the vote be tried to see a way to put that principle into these general principles. What I also don't think is seen from this strategy, which is that the Sustainable Development Strategy should, in a much clearer sense, point out the need for the broad involvement of women in the country's sustainable economic development. Because many studies point to the fact that women are half of the world and so on and so on of the Croatian population, I will call it the largest sub-exploited, here's a name I have so sub-used economic resource because different forms of discrimination are disabled in equal access to the labour market, economic resources, participation in decision-making and progress. I think we know that. These are topics and these are the problems that we are also discussing when it comes to the position of women in Croatia and we point to existing discrimination. In the part where this strategy speaks about the problem, so the population. It speaks of principles, measures and objectives that speak therefore of the population of Croatia. So we all know and we have already repeatedly agreed that Croatia is recording negative demographic trends and that steps should be taken to improve the demographic picture of this country in particular for the purpose of sustainable development. However, I personally cannot agree with what you have cited as certain activities or measures to achieve the main objective of how you have called it with concrete objectives, because among other things you have relied on some national policies that have long been overcome when it comes to Croatia. In fact, when you were talking about existing documents, you were talking about national population policy. We adopted her about two years ago in this Croatian Parliament. But you're talking about a national demographic development programme. Please, something that was done in this House in 1996, which has long been overcome and what has been experienced by a good part of what is written inside, has experienced a number of criticism. And what I find particularly hypocritical is that in this you are referring to the national family policy of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Secretary of State, the national family policy of the Republic of Croatia adopted this House in 2003. What it says in this national family policy was to be implemented by 2007. This family policy has its specific objectives, it has measures, it has carriers, it has deadlines. In 2004, when HDZ took over the hair, national family policy was placed in a chateau to say so or in a drawer deep so that no one would mention it anymore. As SDP, we have warned on several occasions that this national family policy is already at the time of 2003 according to what it predicted, especially when it comes to this whole set of measures that went towards improving the position of the family by looking at whatever side you want, so we have warned that it is wrong, that Croatia is not using that national policy. We even said make a new national family policy, but it was never made. I claim, therefore, that what this national family policy says in this national policy, this government never wanted to implement, and then it really doesn't make sense to quote it as one of the documents from which it must have taken out what is appropriate for it to list the activities or measures to set the main objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27478	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's counsel Sobol said that the family's national policy of 2003 was to continue and work. This is not true at all, given how this policy has been implemented by the national family, what laws they have passed, which is to abolish those to reduce maternity benefits, to abolish a three-year leave. It's part of your national family policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27480	Don't throw it away. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27481	I don't think that should have continued at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27482	Thank you. And another correction of the incorrect quote, the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Sobol would not agree with you absolutely when you called that hypocrisy did not do anything by national policy and strategy. That's not true, first. And secondly, it's true that it was from you hypocrisy when you abolished all the right families, and that's number one. You cut off family benefits for three and more children. And it's embarrassing. And don't say it's something that's hypocritical. You suspended your family's leave, you brought a series of measures that you simply put the Croatian family at zero, because the Croatian family means absolutely nothing to you, because you are such a worldview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27484	I'm notifying MPs and MPs... Please, distinguished MPs can't be polluted that way, please don't, when others do, then that's logical. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please don't. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27485	Mr. Vice President. In this saobru, we can try to challenge the arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27486	Please, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27487	Infringement of Article 209, here it is, breach of Article 209. My colleague can't comment on my worldview. Excuse me, colleague. What's it for?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27488	Dear MPs. It's a replica. Please don't throw away from the club. Come on, don't do that. ... Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that in 17.20 minutes, the time has elapsed to report an individual debate. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] And please, there's no reason to raise the tension here right now, the strategy is very important, it's to be discussed, the corrections are the way everyone else does. Don't ask someone we don't do the same, so let's be tolerant in that sense. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go. Don't come with me this way, you can't pollemize.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. The strategy is very important, but it is very important to conduct a session in a way that respects the Rules of Procedure. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27490	Your Honor, you can't warn me. I'm in charge of an exact session.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27491	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27492	The way the Rules of Procedure predicted. Only if you have an objection to raise the board and tell us what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27493	Mr. Vice President, I commend you to lead her in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to say a few sentences we're about the Sustainable Development Strategy. First thing I have to notice and what I don't think is that any strategy, I would. I wouldn't call this a strategy, because the strategy can't be called something that has 8, 9, 8 chapters, 8 points and certain visions that would want these points to look, look, and not have any concrete or implementing measures, or those who will be in charge of it, and even these measures that are inside of it are now seen aren't bringing results, so it's not good that the strategy is being adopted in a general way, or that we don't see any way that these things that we all want to achieve. Of course, within these eight points and eight chapters, these goals are acceptable and we will all support them. Everyone wants to be more population in Croatia, everyone wants to protect the environment and natural goods in Croatia, everyone wants to maintain employment production, etc., but it is not enough to define how this should be achieved, but rather concrete measures and specifically responsible ministries and certain institutions that should lead to this. What I want to say is that when we refer in the strategy to certain laws of the strategy for certain acts that we have brought either in this Assembly or brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when they do not produce results, I will count some. I think they should be changed or I think that at least in the strategy they should indicate that they did not bring results, or that they should be completed, defined and delivered in a way that they would bring the desired results. Sustainable development, as we have said, represents and assumes three goals. So a stable economic development, of course without an economy, without what we create, we can't have any assumptions or a social state, nor can we ensure that our country develops, nor can we at the end of the earth protect it from devastation, to protect the environment and in some way to ensure what we want, and that our country is preserved and more developed in the next period. When we look at these eight points, I'd say the first population and measures we've taken obviously don't bring results. The population in Croatia has been reduced steadily from year to year, the rate of natural growth is negative and what is set here as a target by 2050 Croatia has more than 4 million inhabitants, I think it is questionable. I think this trend, i.e. the growth of the population, will make it very easy for Croatia to have less than 4 million inhabitants by 2050. And what we do is certainly not good. When you look at what's most basic to young people in the last year to buy an apartment, to start a family, it turns out it doesn't happen in practice. In the last half of the year, sales of new properties have dropped, young people find it harder to buy real estate. Of course, the family, and let’s say family planning, number of children, etc. As for the environment and natural goods, it is written in the strategy that we will advocate that preserved parts of Croatia in a way that protects some form of nature protection is brought between 15% and 20%. We're way behind here. One of the laws we've passed over the past few weeks has gone in the opposite direction. Medvednica, Nature Park Medvednica has been reduced. So instead of going in a positive direction we have also reduced the area that is protected in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about sustainable production and consumption, Croatia definitely has no strategy in which it moves. We do not know what Croatia will produce in 5 years, where we will be competitive in Europe, what we count on, what industrial branch, etc. Let's do what the inert says, tourism is here by itself because we have really beautiful resources and we believe that tourism will be the one to drag Croatia forward. On the other hand, much is invested in food production, or agriculture, but there is still no significant shift in this regard. What I would like to point out, and to see that there are no results, is the number of unemployed who are recordable in the first month of 2009. So only in one month are 15,000 people more registered on the labour market than it was a month earlier. As many as 26,000 people lost their jobs, with 5,000 employees at the same time, and 7,000 were deleted from the records, which is why this difference is from 15,000 people, and that's a record we couldn't break for a long time. This all says that we have no vision where we could protect the workplace, where we could open them and that in some way such framework strategies on sustainable production cannot produce results unless there are concrete measures. When we talk about that, I said 15 thousand people newly unemployed on the labour market. Here I will look specifically at the other points of this sustainable strategy that have contributed. When we talk about energy, the most energy, i.e. the lack of strategy and vision, what to do with the energy sector, has contributed to major relaxation in the processing sector in the 12th and 1st months. And then what are we doing? We're doing this to buy a gas warehouse under private companies, which is more than the way it's not mostly state-owned, but privatized. Instead of going to build a new warehouse and thus ensuring that Croatia has sufficient gas reserves next year or next years. So there are no systematic solutions to solving problems, but it goes from case to case, and I don't know whose interests. On the other hand, we can talk about public health, about the reform that we witnessed today is going the wrong way. After all, few people have even decided on additional supplementary health insurance, so there are new things that do not agree with this strategy, and they happen every day. I think that, and that is why we should have strategies that are more specific, which contain laws and objectives much more precisely set than in this strategy so that there is no disagreement, and I have listed a dozen examples now that we are making laws in life that have nothing to do with this strategy. In the end, I will say that I have a feeling that the strategy is being adopted because the European Union expects us to, that the United Nations has set some goals to bring it in by 2005, we have not brought it in. Here's four years later we're going to bring in and we're just going to meet that obligation and we're going to bring in a very general strategy that will ultimately not bring in, I'm deeply convinced, no use in these things that are processed inside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27494	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, reading this document and thinking about the proposed strategy, I remembered the social-democratic vision and the definition of quality of life, which is actually the fundamental goal of sustainable development. I've quoted that vision here in the Parliament several times, so I'm going to take this opportunity because I think it speaks a lot. By social Democrats, the quality of life is greater than the higher standard of living. The quality of life in the 21st century assumes freedom, as well as freedom from fear. It represents security greater than human solidarity, a chance for self-determination and self-confirmation, for meaningful use of its own forces in work, play and together life, for participation in the nature and values of culture, a chance to stay or become healthy. So just one sentence, but full of content that defines everything a sustainable development strategy should offer. As my colleague Holly pointed out on behalf of our club, it cannot be read in the proposed strategy. Quality action plans are missing. Only with them will we be able to say that this strategy has been brought in to make people in Croatia live better, not only have another strategy on paper, while its implementation will be someone else's concern. By the way, it's known that research into people who deal with strategic governance, 70% of strategies fail. Why? Because there are no action plans, because there are no people who would implement these action plans. Let's look at the strategy we got in two segments. One is population policy and another is public health. This strategy for either one of these two priorities, and it says eight, does not actually offer a solution. A fundamental issue for Croatia, for Croatia's future and for sustainable development is how to prevent negative natural growth. We saw 41 thousand 910 children were born in Croatia in 2007, and 52 thousand 367 people died. So, over 10,000 people died. It's a city the size of Knina. Demographers say, so demographics say not some public SDP, if this trend continues, Croatia will lose a third of its population in 50 years. The most painful demographic point in Croatia is the age and education structure. The average person is 39 years old, an unfinished elementary school. At the same time, highly educated people in the past 10 years have left Croatia in a large percentage. The share of under 15 has fallen to the share level of people over 65 years of age, which means that it is a sign of demographic ageing that is being accelerated. In 2001, the census in Croatia showed that 338 thousand couples do not have any children, meaning 27% of Croatian families have no offspring. The problem of ageing population is further seen these days when discussions on the first and second pension pillar are being held, when it became clear that due to the missed policy, the average pensioner in Croatia is 29 years old and that in 30 years, a third of the Croatian population will be over 65 years old. What does that mean? This is one question in which the Sustainable Development Strategy should offer an answer. This means that all of us who work today and single out the foundations of intergenerational solidarity, when we retire, there's no way that we can get from the first pillar enough to live for the simple reason that there won't be enough people who will be employed to finance that first pension column. Therefore, the debate on the second pension pillar is, in fact, the basis of the Sustainable Development Strategy. And it should be said loudly that for the current employees, the property they will save in their working life is the only guarantee of a safe age. Therefore, the increase in the isolation of the second pillar is the inevitability of all of us who work today. From 2001 to 2007 70,000 people died in Croatia more than they were born. It is clear that we need an explicit policy of opportunity to reverse this negative trend. Therefore, if such a trend continues or is to be prevented, over the next 50 years 60 thousand children should be born annually. That sounds like an impossible mission if this trend continues. And if that doesn't happen, in 2050, 3 and a half million inhabitants will live in Croatia, meaning 860 thousand less or 20% less. So on every five residents today, one will be less. There is an official population policy in Croatia, but it is most viewed in the financial assistance of births, we heard it today. However, it does not produce any results. So it is clear that the measure aimed at demographic recovery cannot be based on child benefits, maternity benefits or permits. If there's no job, if there's no apartment, if there's no health care, what couple will decide for the kids? Does this strategy offer a solution? I don't think so. And that's how we get to public health. Sounds to me like everything that says here is public health priority like cartoons. After the powerpoint reform of the current minister, who has only shrunk and racket on the sick and patching holes of the health budget, we get in the strategy that public health development is a priority. I don't know if you know, I'll remind you, this is the third document in three years on health care. The first to be completely neglected, which was actually the best quality, is the National Strategy for Health Development in 2006-2011, brought by Minister Ljubicic, and everything in that strategy has been well annulled is called Darko Milinovic's reform. Therefore, we are now bringing in a third document, and in fact everything that was quality in the first annulment of this second one, and I am talking about public health, which Dr Milinovic's reform has completely brought into the situation that the question is what tomorrow will be, because the entire primary health care sector is fully at odds with what the minister is saying. So how are we going to have better and better public health? Finally, I would like Mr. Secretary of State to explain to me how all of this in the strategy fits the Law on Golf, the Law on Agricultural Land, the Water Act or public-private robbery, I apologize, the public-private partnership of Sunny Hvar. It seems to me that all of this is in complete collegiation with what's written in this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27496	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27497	Here I am thanking you for your otherwise disastrous performance, is it as usual? A colleague Jovanovic says: “If there is no job and no apartment, no children.” I think it would be good to do an analysis, so he will see that almost all those who talk about having no children have both a job and an apartment. So the problem is somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27498	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Honorable representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27499	Mr. Vice-President and Mr. Secretary of State, when a strategy is written then she should be written in strategic language and with strategic specifics. It seems to me that she partially meets these conditions. What seems to me to be almost a complete failure is her fixation on environmental protection and environmental science. Sustainable development has been impossible for two decades and must not be reduced to environmental issues. Since '72. The year the whole story began with the report of the Roman Club on further sustainable development is a different way of thinking, a different way of planning, a completely different mein set to say it. So, thought structure, not just an environmental issue and a question of energy. And in the end, it's about a different way of thinking. Sustainable development, regardless of the contradiction, because as long as the development of the previous one is not sustainable, but now we leave these theoretical issues aside is actually different primary planning, different planning of energy resources, human resources, natural resources, way of material production, and what almost directly depends on life is water and air. That different plan should provide people with a certain future. It's actually an entire intention. This certain future requires a completely different amount of knowledge and knowledge from the one that ruled in the consumer society. This knowledge enables science and its development or education, which then means that we need different science and that we need a different education system, or how it is beautifully referred to by society based on knowledge. This is the case in this strategy, but this is said in a particularly luminaire and in a very phraseological way. It's actually said that you don't know exactly what is meant by knowledge-based society, what is meant by science, what is meant by knowledge. Among other things, and so forgive my impression, it is the impression that it is an insufficient translation of an English or French source, and when we talk about the relationship between education and knowledge then and science, we again use incorrect technology. Life long learning does not mean lifelong education, because education is divided into formal and informal. It is formal and extraordinary, and informal is what follows behind it, but we mean lifelong learning – life long learning. Lifelong learning, however, in order to be able to function must have an established system because it must be modular, all available. It must enable vertical and horizontal passivity, etc. etc. Among other relevant agencies, they must do their job. These modules must be accredited in order to have the right of the public. And if, for example, I who am an autolimar want to become an autolaser someday, and I find analytical that my interest consists of 13 modules and, for example, that the interest of autolaser consists of 13 modules. But analytically, we have nine modules in common. In order to become an autolaser, I don't have to go to school and absorb 13 modules for three years, but only four. But that also means that during schooling with four additional modules I can get two professions. In order for this to be possible, there should be a system that has been functioning in Europe for 20 years that we have introduced for 5 years in words and nothing is happening in action. And secondly, I, of course, welcome the strategic definition of the European, and then Croatia's need to raise the level of education, i.e. that the sustainable development strategy within itself, therefore, assumes a high degree of education. Among other things, higher education. And that requirement as well as a whole series of other requirements is completely unspecified and remains in one known and contentary, empty phrase. I totally agree with that. But in order for the strategy to be implemented it must have its own implementing measures or as the action plan is said vulgarly. In the action plan, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, he has to stand by what needs to be done, who needs to be done, how long it takes to do and how much money it costs to make it happen. Without it, it's an empty phraseology. And what's in the strategy is just a fine action plan. When you have a list of institutions that are involved in the implementation of certain measures then you practically have all state institutions completely unspecified, and if you have everything then you don't have anyone. And that actually fixed situation or the fixed homework actually worries me the most. We're going to bring nice paper that's going to be formally fine, and actually nothing's going to happen again because it's not going to specify what, who, when and how much money it takes to make things work. As far as education and science are concerned, this is best seen in the sixth final chapter of point four, where the whole thing is flat and unserious at the point of reference so that nothing is known again, which you will not, and education is mentioned in point 4. under social cohesion and justice. Well, that's not the point of education. In any case, it's not the only purpose of education. In any case, it's not the key purpose of education, because education has three components, this is just one. And in sustainable development, we actually want to educate people for different cooperation, i.e. for a different way of working and training them to do it. So, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, I'm afraid this is also a nice piece of paper. I wish he had his implementation plan in this component, but concrete, not phrased. I would just as much like to wish that at least about the sustainable development strategy you had gathered the best heads in Croatia so that they could agree on what they would propose to this authority both to the executive and to the legislative and that their result... came to the Parliament just for verification, not actually to something that turned into a professional debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we could really have a strategy, and then we would already have mobilized a certain human potential that he would want and probably like that paper that he created himself to implement in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27500	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Honorable representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27501	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, it should repeat once again that this document has been late for almost four years and indeed has a whole series of shortcomings. The strategy is unsettled, inconclusive as key, full of activities and measures that resemble primarily the wish list without clearly defined stakeholders' roles, the phase of implementation of the time cycles of specific objectives and indicators to measure the effectiveness of the implementation of the strategy, and some information has become obsolete. In addition, this Parliament does not have quality-developed mechanisms to monitor and some already more concrete strategies than this or the laws it adopts, let alone that it will then be able to monitor the implementation of this actually semi-document. This document suffers from a whole series of these problems in all the content parts. I will briefly discuss some parts and give concrete examples of how some things are solved in Europe and how some measures really sound and are implemented in the countries of the European Union. According to the population, within this strategy, the main objective is even more concrete than the measures and activities it then brings. Says the sentence by implementing a good and sustainable economic policy to create conditions for the employment of young people and the employment of women. What does that mean? I mean, we're going to have to wait until the next election to get the right economic policy because there's no mention of any branches of economics, and then where do the policies that have to change like educational policies? It goes on to bring and implement a housing strategy at national, local and regional level, especially for young people who are just coming to the labour market and starting a family. The concrete measure implemented in the European Union countries is: the state encourages housing for favourable long-term rent or financing, subsidisation, whatever interest on housing loans. This should be a concrete measure in the strategy, not this desire up. It says, to encourage the launch of economic programmes aimed at developing and maintaining a small economy and self-employment in areas affected by the intensive process of demographic ageing, road construction and so on and plan to direct overall migration flows that will contribute to favourable demographic movements, especially those aimed at returning younger... I mean, where, where? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We here need to talk about a concrete strategy, this sounds like a plan for the village of the people. A measure specific to that first part of the vote of the state covers the full cost of self-employment of young people, women, especially middle-aged people who have been unemployed for a long time in the system of flat-rate taxpayers and of making it easier or co-financing or financing of further training programmes. The cost of self-employment is, for example, in a craft like an unrelated craft which is a flat-rate taxpayer is 1200 kuna. It's something that the state can set people apart, help them, they'll get it back through taxes later anyway. Energy. It is enough to stand for one key measure, and it is exclusively related to certain examples from the European Union, to reduce taxes, primarily VAT on solar energy collectors or other technological investments aimed at the use of solar energy, water or air energy. In the environment in planning and editing of space and planning the use of natural goods, ensuring the preservation of significant characteristic landscape characteristics, etc., etc., and a key measure, at least with regard to construction, is that it is necessary to do the same, just recently launched a programme of promotion in Europe, insurance, so that on one hand the countries can provide tax relief for so-called. Green construction, and Europe has now launched a system of co-financing. So that's a concrete measure. It says, by planning the development of the settlement, seek to reduce the growth of large cities and functionally train medium and small cities etc. This sounds minor as Cambodia in the '70s, but the measure should be clearly read, encourage the creation of local action groups, you probably know what it is, in order to solve the problems of small communities through real development strategies and make it more quality for life because the European Union is also funding, or co-financed at the moment. Furthermore, co-finance housing loans for people moving from larger cities and financially encourage them to start some kind of business or business in these smaller cities because new jobs attract new people. So the state has to actually give something, specifically invest, so this is a bunch of nice desires. Sustainable production and consumption, the sentence says, is sustainablely managed by the fish fund. I think so. Today it was just a press conference where the SDP just pointed out what was going on with the fish fund, especially tuna, which borders maltenes with crime. The other thing, the key thing, just one sentence. Encourage socially responsible business. Take an example of Great Britain, a very successful example. There is a clear index of socially responsible business, i.e. companies that do so, and the better you stand by it, and the value of your company is higher, the value of your company's shares is higher because socially responsible business increases the value of your company, it is cheaper and ultimately, that is how you drag other companies to start doing the same thing. It's a measure, run a social-responsible enterprise index. Social cohesion and justice. It says, to improve the education structure, the population and to achieve education with labour market requirements, active forms of help to increase the employment of low-level people, etc., this is not a measure either. So the measures are to create a system of recognition of qualifications acquired, not only by formal education, but also by informal education and information education, to define learning outcomes, to create a model of measuring the same and according to learning outcomes to reform educational programmes, to financially encourage education projects of units of local self-government or schools etc. with a view to the rapid implementation of key competences in education, and ultimately co-finance lifelong learning programmes for all citizens or certain groups of citizens in certain percentages, from 20% to 100%. It's about those other people who are on the stock market 100%, defenders 100%, and so on. And, of course, the key thing is that the state has to support corporate learning programmes financially. That's not what we're talking about. He says he's further revitalising... The areas of projects of general economic importance, we must seek the regional development of Croatia, etc. and the measure is very simple, I think, it's called the EU funds we talked about earlier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU funds will not disappear. The State should financially encourage the strengthening of the administrative capacity of local self-government units for cross-border cooperation programmes. At this time, all borders of the Republic of Croatia can be involved. And on the other hand, we're left with programs like the current community initiative of Leader Plus, you've probably heard of Leader Plus. You know what the strategy is in Leader Plus, you know what the group's local actions are. Such programs will continue. Transport, simply change the excise system and thus encourage purchase for example... Vehicles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's one of the concrete measures if we want to cut the diesel and petrol vehicles off the roads. And the other thing, for cyclists, for pedestrians units of local self-government must also get financial support from the state to make more cycling trails and pedestrian zones. Interestingly, it is only before the end of the strategy that certain information on education for sustainable development and development research can be read. Although this part does not mention key European documents, you point out key education problems, for example, which is a catastrophicly small number of people in lifelong education, and the potentials of informal and informative education are well detected. That's what you put in there, but you didn't say anything concrete about it. As far as science and these innovation sentences are concerned, it is enough to see the system as we have, the vast number of small sub-financed scientific projects and the fact that business, excuse me, I apologize to the scientific innovation of the state funded in miserable percentages. Most of the funding for scientific innovations that are crucial to Croatia comes from the private sector and is bad for us if our scientific development will depend on private capital. The key lack of this strategy is the lack of the will of the state or central government to provide maximum financial support to local self-government units to implement concrete measures or to successfully implement these measures requires genuine fiscal decentralisation. This should have been a key strategic document for the development of the Republic of Croatia. Instead, we have a list of beautiful wishes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not concrete general measures, the ultimate lack of proactive thinking but ultimately what kind of government such strategy is. I'm sorry this document is going to be adopted by the majority. I'm particularly sorry about the woods that will be cut down to make the paper on which this will then be printed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27502	Thank you. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27503	Your Honor, Vice President. Okay, the proposed sustainable development strategy suggests that it includes three general objectives: stable and economic development, fair distribution of social opportunities and protection of the environment. However, in order for these three objectives to work, they must be in cohesion, i.e. There must be a clear vision of overlapping one another and its implementation measures are not enough to have a goal. What we need to be aware of, in some ways, but what we need to warn about. So, there's some specific data to be warned about. Nature, natural resources, climate change, climate change, everything that surrounds us has a big impact. I'll back that up now. Sectors such as agriculture, fishing, health, hydro-energy, tourism and coastal areas account for 25% of the Croatian economy. They employ nearly 600,000 people and make up nearly 10 billion euros in GDP. So it's about 25% of the Croatian economy, a quarter. Now, let's see how certain things in climate change that were not included in any strategy or development plan have affected certain economic branches or economic costs. In 2003, for example, due to the drought, the production of electricity from hydropower plants has been reduced by almost 20%. That cost Croatia 96m euros. 100m euros have caused the drought to reduce electricity production. But look at this information. From 2000 to 2007, the extreme weather conditions usually faced by developed countries with various incentives for irrigation, which, therefore, this manufacturing sector resulted in an average annual cost of 176m euros for the agriculture sector alone. I'd like to hear some of my colleagues. Thus, this amount is higher than the amount of incentives paid to farmers during that period. So, from 2000 to 2007, we only lost more to weather disasters than the incentives were paid for. Well, I think that's absurd. It's like watering in a vase and she's got a hole down there, leaking all over the place. At a conference in July, the World Bank defined direction. ... Okay, vase, jar, you wouldn't want to get involved. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So the World Bank has defined the goal and it's called "we're going to need another green revolution". So, what's this about? The growing energy dependence of developed industrial countries dealing with... activities and growing food needs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It'll sound funny, but among other things, because Asian food habits have changed so that they spend more meat, more meat encourages the production of more cereal, it's all connected. So the future of the world is not only in sustainable energy development, meaning sustainable development through let's say the vision of the green revolution and therefore it will need to ensure energy independence through several segments. And it's up to you, gentlemen of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, that because of these things that they've done, let's also say this damage that these things made the economy unrecognizable means improving the availability of data, that includes enabling public access to all the data that are financed from the state budget, everything we pay for. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be public for interest and serve the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary to improve the modelling of natural and economic systems, coordinating the activities of different participants, integrate the climate into the planning process, obviously significant damage is suffered and involved and engaged in the Croatian public. Now that we're talking about energy, that's where nine guidelines are mentioned. The four most important are 20% renewable energy, 20% energy efficiency increase, 20% greenhouse gas emissions reduction and 10% biofuels in total fuel consumption. Look, the entire energy strategy was created on the basis of the Green Paper, which it represents after 2002, 2007 in Westin. It's a "Green Book" draft that went through a public debate. Unfortunately, however, this strategy does not hold water very well. A complete strategy for sustainable development takes tens of billions of euros to implement it. It's one or a couple of state budgets. So who's gonna pay for it? We're having trouble serving current obligations, let alone with this. It is about waiting for us to enter the European Union and some things will begin to happen in a verse. This is the strategy and energy strategy, i.e. a green book draft. So it's not clear who's going to pay for the investment, it's not in line with the economic strategy. So she comes before even an economic strategy is made. So there's no logic or standoff. And what else is in some way, we don't know where it's stuck here, it's dynamics. It means the dynamics of approaching certain things that should have happened with the implementation plan that comes after the White Paper, which comes after a public debate after the Green Paper. I don't know where that implementation plan is, so obviously it's a little stuck. But here you can see that what was already yesterday was a dog compared to what is happening today in the European Union. A concrete example is being put out by 2020 of a thousand 350 megawatts, and the projected opening of a thousand 400 megawatts with standard forms of electricity supply. So it's covered so it's at zero. The difference between a thousand and 200 megawatts involving economic growth should be covered by renewable energy sources. They're two to six times as expensive. So that takes a dozen billion kunas we don't have. Next thing you know, there's an idea of self-sufficiency all over the place, and there's public debate, like we have to stick to self-sufficientness. I mean, she's good for extreme situations like war, but Europe is a free and open market. It trades with everything and should include the idea and position Croatia a) as a transit country with which it wants energy and through which it passes energy, because through that part you become important and as b) a country that exports electricity. So these are two items that should be implemented in that plan if it is somehow missing. The second thing, by building a renewable energy source, is that this strategy is based on this sustainable development strategy, which is being called upon by it, must build a reserve auxiliary, additional power generation facilities. It means building renewable energy sources. That story's a dog. So that story no longer holds water. Why? Because Denmark, for example. has 100% wind energy and balance with that energy can be covered by neighbors. So it is important to ensure strategically approved directions, so the European Union gave up that concept, which is yesterday's story. It's not a story from today, it's a story from yesterday. As such, it is no longer relevant in the frameworks in which it is located. And now, we have come to this in the finale of a major problem that we will suffer both Croatian citizens and the European Union when one day we enter the European Union, which is... the electricity market, first of all with an unregulated price. So we have a case that foreigners do not enter, because the energy price is too low and we do not encourage the construction of new energy capacities. Gentlemen, in the last twenty years, we've missed the following. We missed being a transit country for oil and natural gas supply routes. We're not that anymore. We have failed to be an energy hub for Europe's natural gas supply. We missed being a country with strong transmission capacity for electricity, we missed being an exporting country of electricity. When we've missed all of this, and now we need to implement some new 10 billion-euro strategy, I'm now asking what we're bringing here, maybe it's best just to wait for the European Union to come, let the matter develop in a word and we don't have to print any more documents if we can't finance them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27504	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27505	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, an esteemed colleague mentioned the question of growing food needs that is evident in the world both in the world and in our normal world. However, from this Sustainable Development Strategy, there are very different settings in it, and I don't know how we could, despite our cleanliness of soil, I don't know the air, water, sea, etc. which are the components of this strategy. As we produce more food for agricultural areas, when it directly states that the available agricultural areas are not used, a low level of agricultural production is achieved, it says in this strategy, i.e. the consequences are known. Lack of necessary agricultural products, high food imports, high prices. How to implement the main objective and apply sustainable agricultural production, i.e. agricultural land, after this, to use in accordance with the principles of sustainable soil management. Because Croatia, by its use of mineral fuels and pesticides, falls largely among the countries at the end of the scale. But the second question is, is it even true? Whether or not we're using, is that data we're getting isn't impartial data, but at the same time we have a situation to use those pesticides and mineral fertilisers, and at the same time we have a much larger number of hectares on which it's being deployed than the ones we're using. So in this strategy we don't get an answer how and how we're going to realize these growing food needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27506	Thank you. Dear representative, reply to the replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27507	So I'm just going to tell you that it's also a world-class trend. When the Chinese health minister said it was healthy to drink a glass of milk a day, then a week in all major malls around the world there was a shortage of milk. So, the fact is that Asia de facto has begun to decide how much we will and how expensive we eat. It's a shame we don't use agricultural resources called so-called. Comparative advantages we have, right? You see, for example. Japan which is a country that has absolutely nothing of resources. In fact, she was in such an unfavourable position that no one wanted to colonize them, because they had nothing, they developed advantages but competitive. And they became a country that imports these fundamental resources and exports of finished products, and they've actually made themselves very much out of nothing. I wish he was also directing us i.e. our visions of some production, especially the production of food that will be more expensive and expensive, in scale world trends, will be based on this line of our comparative advantages that we definitely have, but we will be in a position that we may not be able to manage them if we systematically leave great players from the European Union, and we will not be prepared for that, water in that part of the main word. And maybe that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27508	Thank you. We've got seven more on the case. It's been said a lot, so if you don't have to repeat it, if you can cut it short, I'll be grateful. Not until boo, boo. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27509	Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. In fact, the creation of conditions for sustainable development is a basic task in the 21st century of all countries, so Croatia is no exception. Maintaining development meets today’s needs, while not jeopardizing the needs of future generations by achieving a favourable balance between desires and possibilities. And the next thing I know is the fact that for sustainable development, social responsibility is needed. Social responsibility for politics, economic operators and all citizens of a single country. If that's missing, then we don't even have sustainable development. I will agree with the finding that has been made, said the representative of our club that all of this proposed document does not fully contain, that it is inconclusive, inconclusive and unambitious. It turns out that the proposer around this job was taking it out so he could push it away as soon as he could. The forecasts, visions and action plans that broad colleagues and colleagues were already talking about were lagging behind. In my brief discussion, I will look back on the part relating to natural goods and agricultural areas. Just a few accentes. It is said in natural goods that it is the entire area of Croatia. In particular it is necessary to protect agricultural areas, forests and water, it is concluded that a significant part of the area is mined, and in agriculture agricultural areas, with as many as there are. What is most important to me is this particular part of the sentence where we are said to have a lack of necessary agricultural products, large imports of food and high prices. So these three or four specifics should, in fact, mean both the main objectives and the main activities for implementing such measures to me. Our Constitution in Article 52, among other things that defines as good of special national importance, these sums and land, forests, water, sea, plant and animal life, and it is said that these are the very good things that need to enjoy special state protection. How we do this in practice is discriminatory, especially if we analyze certain laws that we have passed over the past few months or that are ahead of us. It's also about the Agricultural Land Act, the Golf Act, tomorrow we'll discuss the Water Act, the Water Economy, the Forests. I don't think any of the laws that should actually mean that they're good from a special state interest that enjoys special state protection actually through these laws are not visible. What am I missing here? If we say that we do not have good, that we have a lack of necessary agricultural products, then we need to start from a personal resource in agriculture and the way it is used, which is agricultural land. Here it is not found that we actually have a very small property, that it is ineligible for production, that it has high fixed costs, that we have insufficiently trained people who are engaged in agriculture and the consequence of all this is irrational production, expensive production and low yields. So, you should put in the first plan how to round up that property. We also set up a certain institutional infrastructure, among other things, the Land Act we have passed, defined the Land Management Agency, but what is its option. In fact, it should be the main area of land circulation and in a way that buys small plots from privates. But what is its option if we have provided them with a budget of only 5 million kuna for these purposes and in the next two years we predict that it will be at the same level. It's said, yes, we're no longer secure because it's only an intervention. If it's just an intervention through the first-time institute, then we're not gonna do anything. Or the next way to cut imports. You can't reduce imports if your domestic production is expensive. The customer does not always look at the primary quality under these conditions, but looks at the policy price. You can't say buy Croatia if it's under two figures more expensive than it can be introduced or you can't just tell the importers you're importing bad goods. You must do something to prevent them from importing bad goods and selling it on the Croatian market. Therefore, there is also a need for certain legislative regulations, quality determination and all those accompanying institutions that will monitor such quality. What about the incentives? We spend more and more money on incentives year after year, we have less production and more imports. How does the system encourage in some way reform that they give effect? In 2001, the Agriculture Act was passed, we said there was a need to regionalise agricultural production, 7 years is not enough to do so. So many things need to be widely analysed and then dealt with through legislation. What about rural development? We have also brought a strategy for rural development, and for us a few villages each year remains empty. This morning, we were discussing a state audit finding where it says there are no criteria for the allocation of those funds, and there are not even competitions for such projects. What about recording state land? It is known that as social land has been registered over a million hectares of land, we have now managed about 300, 400 or maybe less thousands of hectares to enter or register through these almost, here almost 18 years. How's the education? What's it gonna be? We have before us the need for a system of licensing of producers of certain products in agriculture. There's nothing about it. How will it be transmitted, transferred new technologies if we don't have educated personnel, etc. What are the main objectives? The main objectives here turn out to be biodiversity and landscape diversity. Only in activities is it said what this should do in agricultural production. I would like to warn of one of the national projects that we have brought, which are recorded here as existing documents, which is the National Watering and Agriculture Management Project. It actually happened a little bit here, and maybe it's a good thing. I would also like to warn here about the World Nature Protection Fund's report on the Mediterranean situation. We belong in part to the Mediterranean. It is said here that the way agriculture was developed in the Mediterranean through one irrigation, including the irrigation of cultures that were traditionally not irrigated, so olives and agrums, that this led to the fact that from 1960 to today the irrigated land doubled and that the irigation systems became the main consummations of water and that they absorbed as much as 65% of the water in the Mediterranean. So climate change, more and more frequent drought periods, and in Croatia, we actually need to be warned about regionalising agriculture, to watch out for the crops in which areas we have and how we are going to build irrigation systems, precisely for those cultures that need it. We don't actually see all this through this strategy, and I think she should go for a more serious workup.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27510	Thank you. We have one replica. The esteemed representative of Zdenko Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I mean, this is how I have to replicate myself to my colleague, actually more to supplement. I agree with it that our agriculture is characterized by low production, that our agriculture characterizes the lack of product or better to say what we read daily that Croatia imports 40% of food alongside so many agricultural areas. I think that this Sustainable Development Strategy should first and foremost have the development of self-sufficiency in agriculture. Finally, we should define what products Croatia can produce at least if it has enough for itself, not to import them. I called back about something else. We're talking big imports today. In parallel, just to produce what we produced in the '90s, we would have not self-sufficiency, specifically in corn, but we could also have renewable energy sources, we could talk about bioethanol production, we could talk about meeting exactly those standards that the European Union expects us to meet. Just one example. Today we produce an average of 5.4 tons per hectare of corn. We've produced 6.4 tons, and that's what it's shown with ease and last year that we can do more, just this once because of the climate, and not because of our technological knowledge, and that only 300 thousand acres of corn we'd have more definitely renewable energy sources. Therefore, I think that the Sustainable Development Strategy had to point out these opportunities to move towards self-sufficiency, but also to go towards the production of renewable sources, related to agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27512	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27513	I agree, colleague Chuhnil, with your thinking, but I'd like to back it up with something that's up to date, which we're going to discuss in a few days. In fact, we can't run a production incentive policy in a way that's now big or small production, so we're going to encourage it next year. We must have one long-term plan, just in this sense how you say what is missing and more invested in Croatia, through capital investment, household training and through technological progress, as well as through education. Let's say, when I say that we're going to discuss it, it can't happen that we're increasing, we're doubling the corn incentive because it's been a big production, so it's a low price, and then we have to make up for people's price difference. It is an unsustainable situation and it is unacceptable in such a way to use tax money.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27514	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Honorable representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, here I will try to shorten this debate on your recommendation since, as you yourself have said, a lot of things, especially what I would have said if we hadn't forgotten what on behalf of the SDP club said our esteemed representative were those small shortcomings or greater shortcomings that this strategy as what should be a strategy already has. So let me just say again that what's most serious is that, when, who and how much money somehow isn't, 'let's just say that it's going to be kind of confirmed by action plans, but in any case, and in one such strategy, at least a hint of something of what it should have to justify a name like a strategy. You said at the beginning of your presentation that in Croatia we should also have this strategy made so that we should translate our further development in Croatia into a vision of sustainable development. Furthermore, you said that through this brief analysis of the existing situation as mentioned here, some concrete moves for a long-term action should be drawn from this. In principle, I might agree with you, but here's not gonna talk when, who and how much, I'm gonna talk about what first. Since she's as a strategy really principled I'm going to get some things in that principle, we could in principle talk and talk a lot. I'm going to try some things just to look around to see maybe a little bit from another angle of watching if there's anything to fix or change. First of all, when we speak in this general, introductory part, when we say that strategies determine the guidelines of long-term action by defining objectives and identifying etc. and then it is said that the strategy unites three components of sustainable development and then says economic growth, social balance and the environment. I'd like it here, that's what's dissonant maybe so you won't like it, instead of economic growth that's just an economic, social and ecological finding that would use a syntagma economic growth instead of an economic component. A virus has been inserted into the entire strategy. Economic growth in me makes that in this whole strategy wherever it is mentioned is somehow a virus that eats up this strategy. Such a strategy cannot obtain sustainable results, of course, because as I think economic growth is the cause of unsustainable development, resource exhaustion, devasion of planets and social divisions. Continued with the current model of development that glorifies growth, and in a situation where in the 20th century around half of global, non-renewable resources have already been spent, and today in the 21st century it would only result in further deepening the ecological and social crisis, however difficult it was for us as politicians or politicians in general to recognise. Furthermore, in this chapter where we speak the Republic of Croatia and sustainable development are also three general objectives, including economic, stable economic growth and a fair distribution of social opportunities and protection of the eco-sphere. I think someone, it's not what we're supposed to say. But someone should really explain what is growing on the globe of the earth all the time except the economy. Not safe protection of the eco-sphere or distribution, fair distribution of social opportunities. If there are no such examples, and there is no way that on earth or in a country that cannot physically grow, there is also a stable economic growth in the long run. In addition, it is claimed that this can be done in a way that damages in the environment and society are reduced simultaneously. That hasn't worked for anyone yet, but the syntagmu sustainable growth persistent work is being used by the hives of real change in usability as if 40 years of delaying decisive actions weren't reasonable for our entire planet. Also, on the proposal for a strategy on page 5, you say that we will promote an economy based on prosperity, various changes, a competitive spirit. I think it would be more appropriate or why in a competitive spirit, not in some spirit of cooperation and understanding the needs of all social and social groups. We also argue that the strategy will provide an economy that provides a high standard of living. I don't know much about sustainable development. What little I've learned somehow seems to me that sustainability itself is talking about the basic needs of present and future generations and the quality of life, not the high standard. For example, if all the inhabitants of the world wanted to have a high standard as residents of America, there would be, of course, not one but two or three planets for the necessary resources to do so in such a way. Furthermore, in the description of the current situation that we are not now saying that it is in some way that it is not affected properly and that low inflation, reducing the budget deficit, and I don't know what everything is. So we're going from the wrong foundation. It seems to me that this description of the current situation in the economy is highly susceptible to the impact of course we all know this well-known hiertive of all external opportunities and would in no way be a good basis for building a stable economy. We could only have a stable economy if we could design it so that our influence on it is dominant and crucial that today is not the case, because on the current tape as we hear and see under the external dictatorship we adopt the rules of the game. We could have a dominant impact on the economy if we focus on building self-sufficiency no matter how retrograde it sounds, first of all, in food and energy. That would be the way to a sustainable economy with much less transport, energy and imports, and with much more local, jobs and environmental considerations. But there's no mention of anything like that in the strategy. Next thing I know, I'm just going to list another flaw. The scarcity is with the institutions involved that will be able to implement this strategy, so all ministries are listed to the university, the institute. I think that the general observation applies to all eight key chapters as mentioned here, as indicated because sustainable development cannot be ordered or prescribed by legal acts from the state level. Sustainable development is either happening locally or not. With... the institutions involved do not appear anywhere in local and regional self-government units, and I do not think that without them the ministries can achieve anything in realisation and such strategies we have said as it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also in the chapter, sustainable production and consumption of praise is worth saying that consumers must change the current lifestyle and influence the reduction of the consumption of natural goods just don't know how. Of course, consumers will not change their current habits and lifestyle unless they are quite clear that they must and that it is in the interest of all of them and their children. While growth is the main objective of national economic policy, it will be legitimate for companies to use all possible means of propaganda to encourage consumers to spend even more, and since propaganda messages are infinitely more than those with warnings and explanations where the current development model leads, and since the promotion of consumption is not prohibited but is supported by practical measures, consumers will stick to those messages that are easier accessible and easier to understand. When the focus of society from growth and competition is transferred to building self-sufficiency, and when the current type of advertising messages disappears from TV screens and radios and from newspapers, then we will be able to take a major step in sustainable production and consumption. Also, in some ways, it seems to me that it is in line with the changes, let’s say, activities and measures that are also said about sustainable production and consumption, yet do not misread that I am against some science. But in line with the changes, you claim that by 2010, in line with changes in consumption patterns in the modern world, we will invest in scientific research and the application of new cleaner and environmentally efficient technologies with less use of natural resources. When it's really hearty to achieve sustainability and self-sufficiency, then we don't need a lot of investment in new technologies, because all the solutions are in what's small and what's local. It is not good that we forget regularly that in search of sustainable solutions we should focus on research primarily of our own, but also of other traditions and old skills. Because you're not going to say that in these rooms 50, 60 years ago sustainability was not part of the everyday life as it was. Of course here I'm running out of time just let me have more...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27516	Your Honor, I need you to manually withdraw. You said a little shorter, so now, at least don't go red again. You're out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27517	I couldn't even say the closing sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27518	Say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27519	Here, let me think, there's just one more sentence. I don't want any more. I thought I'd be a lot shorter. I apologize to all of you. We are talking about continuous knowledge acquisition, especially at a time of rapid and significant change, so we should improve the competitiveness of the labour market to say it now by commenting on this. The thesis that there is no adequate protection without economic growth
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27520	Your Honor, that's five sentences. Thank you. You can't do this anymore. We have two replicas, so you'll be able to tell through the replicas. First is the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27521	A colleague asked a rhetorical question that only grows apart from the economy and, apparently, from its exposure, results in a growing and environmental threat, resulting in a lot of work being done to slow down this environmental threat. We often forget that man is not only a social being, but a natural being, that nature is ours alone, let's say, a figurative, inanimate part. That is why I am interested, when speaking here about the Adriatic Sea, it is said on page 33 in the space, I quote, the area of the Adriatic Sea, the coast and the island are the most valuable and sensitive natural systems of the Republic of Croatia, which is a fact. The fact is that the sea accounts for 35.4% of the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia. What is unclear to me is the policy of fighting so far, so to speak against the new invasive species of algae that attack the Adriatic coast, first of all it's about the algae of the caboline caulerpa, which is older, and from earlier on, it's even more dangerous caulerpa recipes that simply destroy our submersibles. It seems to me that very small funds are in the budget, because every year we try to find these funds, so according to this... Amendments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They predict very little resources, and given these findings that this is one of the greatest values, if not the greatest value in this sense in Croatia, I would like to hear perhaps, I do not understand why this is how they treat this algae, although I know that it is difficult to eradicate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27522	Your Honor, I've let you speak, but the esteemed representative of Denon has not mentioned the algae for as long as he has spoken, but please respond to the algae.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27523	Algaes are synonym of something, it seems to me that a colleague you said should be a synonym of something you shouldn't allow if we talk about the Adriatic Sea, but unfortunately I don't believe that any special mechanism of sustainable management of the Adriatic Sea will ever be established, but I do believe that we should also agree on the principles of behaviour that could stop the devastation. I also believe that it can affect local communities to set their functioning on sustainability principles and by establishing a local agenda of 21, which would certainly result in an improvement in the state of the environment and social opportunities in the community over a certain period of time. And what I haven't been able to say, that one sentence so let me now, when I talked about investing in knowledge, is again mentioned that this should ensure on the market economic growth without which there is no social balance or adequate environmental protection. It seems to me that, try to answer that now, the the thesis that, without economic growth, there is no adequate environmental protection, is often heard, despite complete unfoundedness. All you have to do is answer a simple question, answer me if you can, whether global environmental degradation and climate change have caused countries that are richest and with the biggest economic growth or the poorest ones. That thesis could only stand if all the global disasters are caused by Burke's Faso and similar countries, and the United States is the Union, Japan and China. But fortunately, you know what they say in my and our Gorski Kotar, and that sound will pass, says the fox while it rips off her skin, so I believe that this progress as we have done here will go the same way, and that we will remain on those healthy foundations and come up with life in our Croatia slightly different than this strategy foresees.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27524	Thank you. And a replica, the esteemed representative of Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, an esteemed colleague of Denona pointed out that talking about a sustainable development strategy, and not looking at it locally, is immaterial. Also, talk about something that will not provide the possibility of ensuring certain jobs through the achievement of this strategy, or development, is also groundless. Here, I'm going to point out a detail about some of those previous discussions when it comes to agriculture. It was that agriculture was a potential for food production. It has been pointed out several times that the potential for producing energy is also from some residues from agriculture. Here's a detail of Vukovar-Srijem County and the town of Vukovar. What a lot of people are expected to do in Vukovar is project energy for straw. You know that there's a straw present as one of some kind, I'd say waste or addition to any harvest. In Vukovar, for example, it is envisaged to create energy for the production of 12 megawatt power that should be in the economic zone at more than 3 hectares would spread and, somewhere in 2010, at least according to projects, it would employ a hundred workers. Of course, the Vukovars expect much from such an investment that weighs about 40m euros. Her work says it should take about 100,000 tons of straw a year. It is predicted that the company that will run all of this will conclude ten-year contracts with straw suppliers, which would therefore also be a certain security for farmers. So this is one example of how sustainable development can be linked to local projects because it will not only solve the increase in employees...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27526	Thank you. Your time is up. Honorable representative Denon, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27527	Your Honor, Mr. President, as I oversold your permission and entered the red twice, I'm giving up a possible replica in favor, here's your recommendation to cut it short.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27528	Thank you for your contribution. Honourable representative Nevena Marinovic continues with an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27529	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. The sustainable development strategy of the Republic of Croatia is certainly a significant document that long-term directs economic and social development and environmental protection towards the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. The strategy of this proposal, respecting the existing situation and the international commitments taken, contains fundamental principles, sets the basic objectives and measures for sustainable economic development, sustainable social development and environmental protection, but identifies key challenges in their achievement. The implementation institutions, their responsibilities and how to monitor implementation are listed. I will stay on to see what the situation is today in the Republic of Croatia and what expectations of this strategy are. In September 2008 before this High House, there was a report on the implementation of nature protection in the Republic of Croatia showing that the protection of nature in Croatia has become an integral activity in the past 7 years which has sought to bring the use of natural goods into line with sustainable development. Furthermore, the same report showed that the Republic of Croatia has a great wealth in diversity but also a very high degree of value and conservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity and that it represents a huge development potential. Croatia has a unique position in Europe and the world to take advantage of its comparative advantages, such as untouchable nature, traditional food production, as well as an old Europe's wisdom reservoir and has the ability to profile into a destination recognizable by its eco-top independence and strength. It would be good for sustainable development to be based on a more significant work based on the definition of eco-tops of a geographically specific, evolutionaryly stable and economically sustainable system. The development needs to be planned further on the values that those who make them accepted as part of the system because they are precisely giving stability to the same system. Conversely, the race for domination that today's leaders tend to pursue and as a result are problems of alienation and loss of identity, which paved the way for global monoculture syndrome and we know that monoculture and evolution is unsustainable. Since the Adriatic is the largest strategic potential but also the strategic orientation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in my debate, I will concentrate briefly on this in my view a very important key challenge to achieving the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. Today fortunately still because of many wise before us who had been able to care for sustainable development and strategic planning, we have a sea full of wealth, life, clean, transparent, framed by beautiful landscapes. And that's why it has a special Mediterranean subregion status. Although burdened with pollutants in certain locations, the Croatian part of the Adriatic is the cleanst sea area in the Mediterranean and Europe. Environmental and sustainable development problems exist and are the lack of water treatment devices, sudden sea pollution, the introduction of foreign marine micro-organisms and pathogens, as well as fishing and over-building in the coastal area. Special load of islands and the entire coastal area are tolerated during the tourist season. Tourism is a driver for economic development of this part of the Republic of Croatia, as well as a burden for the marine environment and coastal space. And precisely because of the strategic importance of tourism, the protection of the marine environment must be a priority because the preserved natural environment is a prerequisite for the current and future development of tourism. Therefore, the main objective set out in this section and the measures to achieve that objective must be in line. Since the objective is to limit the impact of the economic activities of specific tourism, measures that ensure clean sea and coastal conditions should be stepped up and those responsible for Zadar County as well as the leaders of the island and coastal units of local self-government because in their strategic development programmes sustainable development is based on the protection of the sea and coastal areas. And at this point, significant funds have been involved in the implementation of these projects. I'll finish it. In directing the Republic of Croatia towards sustainable development and progress in each of the eight key challenges, it is important not only to draw but also to carry out reforms and planned activities and to build an effective state and raise the educational environment of all citizens to build a knowledge-based society because this is an important assumption in achieving sustainability and achieving the main objectives of this strategy. From the strategy I expect the impact of these strategies on the Croatian economy should also be the creation of stability and quality that world monoculture cannot destabilise at all times. But I also expect it to encourage the development of new thinking based on the principles of ethics rather than domination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27530	Thank you. And now we have a distinguished representative, Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27531	19.03, so I have to finish at 13. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. This strategy, i.e. this document, should show a vision of the development of the Republic of Croatia. This document should contain, or should contain, all other strategies, i.e. all of these economic, energy and inland development strategies of the Republic of Croatia, should come from this Sustainable Development Strategy. At the presentation of this strategy, at least a third of the Government should sit, not just a State Secretary with an associate, regardless of what I think you are absolutely competent to follow this debate and answer. However, it is one Sustainable Development Strategy but because of all the things we can read in the strategy and how it is presented, we could call this document an essay rather than a strategy that is brought more for formal than real reasons. It is just a few tax-listed remarks, undefined, without clearly defined problems and objectives, without precise measures to be applied, without precise deadlines, without a financial plan and not even an idea of how much this could possibly cost without even talking about measurable instruments of success. But there are always two approaches to strategies, strategies or strategies, and then you can always say that our vision of making such a document is different and that what we have in our hand is exactly what it should be. However, there will be no damage to this document either way. How useful it will be for that after that. But there is one bigger remark that can be given more to the work of the entire administration in at least the last five years because the realization of this strategy was initially questioned by bad practice as I said the work of this administration. Because I haven't seen the concept of sustainable development in these last few years. Particular interests are now dominated by general interests, laws are used to violate and strategies are forgotten even before they are passed. Let us try to meet some of the key challenges contained in this document. Let's just say, when we talk about protecting the environment, natural resources, protecting the Adriatic and coastal areas that we've had all these years? Instead of preserving all of this, we had a devastation, especially when adopting spatial plans at work was one terrible pressure on both the ministry and units of local self-government in order to meet the interests of capital, in the direction of apartmentisation and concreteisation of the coast, building new hotel facilities and in places where they should not be built on a small island with several inhabitants. To build hotel facilities with several thousand beds without municipal infrastructure, I find it unsustainable. Or when we're talking about building a 50-ac golf course, which is up-to-date. I do not know how much this fits in preserving the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia and the sustainable development of the especially coastal part of Croatia. or when we talk about sustainable economic production. Just to touch ourselves, there were already words of agriculture here, which is one of the key branches and for the survival of our people. In these 18 years, we've changed strategies several times, from breaking up large-scale property owned by combinations, so now a new uniting strategy of what we've done over the past 15 years and what's already been fragmented is further fragmented. Five years ago, the government said that one of the priorities of its policy is the irrigation strategy. But in the last five years, it hasn't gone from a dead end. Because if we are talking about energy independence and efficiency, this gas crisis has shown how much we are independent and how much we are working towards this efficiency. We have a strategy, i.e. complementing strategy and energy development, which is actually written by individual lobbys. In fact, it's not a strategy, it exists, or we just need to define one of three possible scenarios. And again, we will define ourselves not according to the assessment of what is in the interest of this country and these citizens, but we will be able to define ourselves according to the current strength of a particular lobby. Whether it'll be an oil lobby dominant whether carbon lobby, gas or nuclear. In these times of crisis, we don't speak unlike some of the truths of developed countries, of the introduction of new technologies, of green technologies. Instead of coughing with a developed world, why not create with them what will only come in the future. Or when we talk about transport integration, how sustainable there is when we're the concept that's as much water as we are, let's be extremely critical of it, building highways is at stake. From something as sustainable as it was, we have come to the fact that the new construction of road infrastructure has become absolutely unsustainable. Why? Because prices have gone up twice as much as it would have been real. Or how sustainable it is to go after new low-rail projects, how sustainable it is to modernise the railway towards Vinkovci, it is also sustainable to have a highway on this road towards Lipovac and to say that one of the priorities of Croatia is the construction of the Danube-Sava channel. Is this sustainable not only economically cost-effective, but is it ecological and harmful. Or when we talk about the territorial cohesion of the Republic of Croatia. so if something is in part all these years for these or those reasons, objective and subjective it is further deepening the differences between certain parts of Croatia, the differences between Slavonia and Zagreb are growing every day. Or when we talk about the sustainability of social and giving policies. How sustainable it can be if we spend far more than we earn. And this crisis will show that we've made mistakes on that plan. Or when we talk about fostering population growth. It is said that the former government is guilty because the Croats are gone. And I say who ruled the Croatians for 14 years? This is a really big problem and it should be acknowledged that the measures so far have not produced the right result. Because the 13th minute is slowly running out, I'd be bringing the end. This strategy should be monitored through reports by the United Nations Agency for Development, which talk about climate change, something that awaits us, something that will be touched in part by us, but most of the generations that are coming and to which Croatia will have to give serious answers. What about our key treasures is drinking water, it's forests, it's agricultural land. Is their preservation going to depend on the survival of the Croatian population in these areas? So, to resume. I do not expect too much from this document, because there is no political willingness to exploit all the potential in society to achieve those objectives set out in this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27532	Thank you. We have one replica, Honorable representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27533	Dear fellow Pancic. I'll be free. You're a little younger than me. In fact, the story of the Danube-Sava channel is so old, it's been talking for more than a quarter of a century. As a young man out there in the early '80s, I went with a group of high school colleagues to walk and see the future route of the canal, where we'll be able to fish, ride, etc. I will also visit a statement by Minister Cobankovic, which I spoke about sometime last year at the beginning of the parliament's work, which he said, at the first session of the new assembly of the Parliament, will bring a spatial plan, which will mean the official start of work on the Danube-Sava channel. That was here I will repeat the paid ad on the ninth page of the Vukovar newspaper since 23 November 2007. It was a big pre-election story. Today, however, we are still talking about the channel, mentioned in various forms. I must say that, after all, when we hear a little environmentalist from Vukovar-Srijem County and the problem of Croatian forests in the Spačvanska Basin, it may be a good thing it didn't start building. So it's going to give room to do some more research to make some real interpretation of the significance of that channel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27534	Thank you. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27535	There's a fellow book, and I recommend you take it. It's about the title of "Losso Hunt in Yemen." About this fishing project, catching salmon in dry desert vats, can be measured by this idea, which is still from Austria-Hungarian, means a hundred and I don't know how many years of construction of the Danube-Sava channel. If it were economical, if it were environmentally acceptable, someone would have built it already. In these circumstances today's economic, social and sophistication, it's just about as if we want to hunt salmon in a desert state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27536	Thank you. Let's move on, but no salmon. Honorable representative Branko Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished gentlemen from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Sustainable development assumes the achievement of three general objectives, stable economic development, fair distribution of social opportunities, and protection of the environment. The Republic of Croatia will achieve stability and progress in development if, in the general objectives of balanced policies, among other things, what I will specifically look at, I build an effective social care system. Croatia has been monitoring unfavourable demographic movements for years. This phenomenon is evident in increasing the share of older people, negative natural growth, migration during the Homeland War and the ageing of the working population. The main characteristics are the populations of older people, the number of single-member households, single-member couples without children, lifestyles and gender roles, higher divorce rates, rural migrations, new challenges in protecting human security against violence and crime. The sustainable development of society is based on social equality and harmony. It is sustainable that a society that respects differences in democratic values in which every individual, regardless of gender and origin, has equal rights and opportunities to participate actively and responsibly in circumstances that improve and ensure social security, human health and legal protection. Because of the unfavourable age structure and reduced working contingent, the number of abstentions is increasing and the number of working-age residents is reduced. The risk of poverty and exclusion other than unemployed primarily affects older and single households, and then households with more children, homeless people, etc. In relation to regional enlargement, the threat to poverty is primarily linked to rural areas. In these, poverty levels are three times higher than those in urban areas. It is estimated that 10% of the population of the Republic of Croatia is socially excluded. The main objective of the Sustainable Development Strategy is to achieve a socially inclusive society that is characterized by solidarity within generations and between generations, respecting differences in democratic values in which each individual, regardless of gender and origin, has equal rights. The essential characteristics of the social care system. This is the system most faced with the resolution of unfavourable transition processes, the experts of the welfare centre are renegotiators for various system shortages and cumulative frustrations related to the invisible position of users. The options of the solution are often very limited, and in my opinion the most significant problems are parallelism and unclear competences. For example. family centres, courts, centres for social care, then unfavourable standards and labour norms, and lack of clear procedures, ineffective and undefined cooperation with other institutions, often transfer responsibility, and particularly inadequate assistance and cooperation by higher instance. I mean, specifically, the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. The European Commission's assessment of 5.11.2008, with a number of comments, states the fact that a director of the Social Care Directorate has not been established for a year. So this turns out to be a completely irrelevant resort, to determine the person who will lead it, and of course, when there is no person who leads, then there is no direction, there is no development, no exchange of information, there is no one to complain about, and no progress can be expected. In addition to such anarchy and disorganization, the system must in practice function and address problems that are growing and greater. What's the situation with social care experts? High level of professional stress, exposure to various risks, excessive norms, unfavourable working conditions, often referred to as the principle that a social worker cannot do his job well. If he does something, he'll be charged with violating someone's rights, and if he doesn't, he'll be charged with insubordination. Each new regulation brings new authority, or a new obligation, especially to welfare centres, and capacitation does not follow it. As far as the social care development strategy is concerned, there is a complete and clear strategy missing. There is no strategy document. There are individual documents, such as social exclusion, decentralisation, deinstitutionalisation, child care, but there is no strategic document. In the welfare system, changes are necessary. First of all, clarity and social sensitivity of the legal framework are necessary. Therefore, laws should be clear and socially sensitive, it is necessary to draw up a new Social Care Act, then plan measures that are financially sustainable. Unfortunately, only those programmes financed by UNICEF and the World Bank are sustainable. Then, an organisational framework that enables efficient, vertical and horizontal communication within the system and between systems, quality and available services, competent and satisfied experts and efficient use of financial and human resources. In the Republic of Croatia, further construction of effective economic and financial management systems, strengthening the legal system, freedom of independent media and the continued strengthening of civil society through which the requirements for change are coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27538	Thank you. This is the last moment, Honorable Representative Goran Heffer,... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27539	My colleague was still standing, I apologize. Well, she's a colleague, and I apologize for maybe replicating everyone right now, but the fact is that a colleague raised one question that, in the sustainable development strategy, represents the same important element. This is a question of the representation or residence of certain professionals in the area of social welfare, which in Slavonia is very deficited. For famous reasons, therefore, of war, of the pores, of the current underdevelopment of Vukovar-Srijem County, so to speak, of the east of Croatia, I would say that the need for such a staff is extremely significant. And I'm glad that colleague just mentioned that segment because some human health is an element of sustainable development. Unfortunately, with us, such representation is particularly insufficient compared to Zagreb, Rijeka and I do not know other environments that are more developed and I would say richer, etc. I'd say the problem with this deficit is still the system and leave it to the local self-government alone is bad. You should think about that at country level. I expect that in this segment, because it is constantly mentioned, workshops, stands and all, not only political parties, but also NGOs and health institutions and others will finally be heard for such a solution to such a problem in Vukovar-Srijem County and the whole east of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27540	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Brankica Crljenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27541	The problem of employment in the welfare system is a key problem. In part, it is related to the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the fact that the Ministry of Health does not give consent to new employment, and the other part to the lack of professional staff. They can only conclude that it is necessary to encourage the education of staff in the social care system, primarily social workers, and, in agreement with local self-government units, to encourage employment in areas of special state care in such a way that this employment is stimulated by some other forms such as the allocation of human resources or the employment of spouses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27542	I thank you, too. And we're moving on with the debate. Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As counterpart Crlenko and colleague Heffer made it very clear, health on the one hand and human resources on the other side are the basis of each country. We must have health, we must have narrow resources, so I am surprised that our government is here today without human resources, if what they wrote is true, I quote: "This strategy is a developmental fundamental document in considering long-term transformation as the basis for all future strategies and documents that will contribute to the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia". Of course, Mr. Secretary of State knows very much about sustainable development, but it is surprising that we do not have a Deputy Prime Minister, that we do not have other ministers, especially on the trail of the fact that Croatia is today a member of the World Government. Croatia is a member of the Security Council, and the Security Council is called the World Government in a colloquy. Of course, I wouldn't talk about how our representatives are acting in this World Government right now, but the fact is that this World Government has adopted Millennium Declarations, Millennium Goals and the fact that out of the 8 Millennium Goals each other, therefore 4, it refers to health. And that's what my colleague Heffer said very clearly, and my colleague Crlenko has just said. Progress exists, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, progress exists because the Government of the Republic of Croatia a year ago when it adopted its programme has not had a word, not a word about the Millennium Declaration, not a word about the Millennium Goals, not a word about sustainable development. So there's progress. They seem to be googling, so they've been able to read something, and they've remembered that it exists and... There is progress, but a strategy if you can call it a strategy, in this form does not stand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need, in a football dictionary, an offensive approach. This is a defensive approach, a bunker. We need, we need, if, uh, condicional, maybe tell the bunker, we'll never score. It only happened in Italy in '84, '85. at the World Cup when we entered the semifinals and no one else. We have a bunker or we don't play at all. We don't play or play the verse, which was spoken by a colleague, Jovanovic. The verse brings nothing but sustainable development, Mr. Secretary of State. We need an initiative, we need what we had, the best export brand of the last century, and that's public health. Mr. Secretary of State, in this document you only have two pages on public health, and without health, nothing. And you, Mr. Secretary of State and your associate, are designed to live for 120 years. I want you to live for 120 years, but in an orderly state, an orderly parliament, an orderly government, an orderly ministry, not a verse. So I ask you nicely that this public health and health, respecting the fact that in the Millennium Declaration is every other objective of health, extend, respect the fact that the health of our people, all of our citizens, is the basis of development and that investment in health in regulated countries is a fundamental investment strategy. And then we talk about prevention. How do we talk about prevention in a country where, three years ago, the Minister of Health allowed asbestos production? That's what my colleague Jurjevic talked about all the time, for years and years. So in a country that should have sustainable development, which should protect the environment, the Adriatic Sea boasts. Mr. Secretary of State, asbestos is allowed to be produced. You are not a doctor, but on February 26, 2006, the Minister of Health, under the law, allowed asbestos production along with the Minister of Economy and Labour at the time. That's unimaginable. It's the greatest crime of the then minister, the Minister of Labour then, and an unimaginable state, or we're not an orderly state. I hope so. As mentioned above, every other citizen in Croatia suffers from cardiovascular disease, and all these risk factors of cardiovascular disease are preventable. When did you hear about a public-health action that was talking about prevention? When? I'm asking you, I'm worried he's gone. He doesn't have a health minister, so he'll... Tumors of new creation, there are two actions, I have to be honest, cancer detection... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and breast cancer detection, but cancer disease today, on Tuesday, 60 of our citizens were diagnosed with cancer, and today 35 of our citizens died of cancer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Inadmissiblely high what he says about poor prevention. One kuna invested in prevention ultimately brings 10 kuna, and in a situation such as this moment in Croatia, it is definitely amazing. And the third cause, as mentioned here, disability and morbidity and mortality in Croatia, believe it or not, are work injuries and car accidents. Third cause. And why is that? There's a colleague and colleague who worked in some kind of production. Because you've been called before, no matter whether you work in the textile industry, whether you work in school, whether you work in a mine in Labin, say, they've called you for preventive checks, they've warned you. Discovered in times of illness, discovered in time potential risk factors. Nobody calls us, nobody talks about it, and that's why work injuries are getting more and more frequent. It's embarrassing. The disability, colleagues and colleagues, morbidity and mortality from work injury is three to four times the European average. Inadmissible. This is Mr. Secretary of State, and on the trail of the permit to produce asbestos, the reason why I think you have to have a lot of fun with this document is because I also feel that this is the basic document of the Croatian state on which other documents will be made. But I'm asking you nicely not to make it a health development strategy that has three characteristics. The first feature is that it is an over-expanded representation of the historical gains of Croatian healthcare that are great, which are remarkable, but it is over-expanded. We don't have to go back in time. Another feature is that it speaks relatively correctly of the problem, and the third characteristic is as well as the characteristic of this strategy not to talk about tools, about the group who will and how it will do so. I mean, we all have strategies. Every citizen of ours has a strategy, a strategy even how to do it, to put together a football team of Croatia perhaps even better than Slaven Bilic. But strategies need to be developed into projects. A little strategy develops into projects, somewhere below 5%. And the third most important goal is to do it, because you know where it falls? On people, he's falling for this. There's no one from the government. We all have ideas. These ideas develop into projects, everything falls on people, and that's why I'm sad, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament probably like you, that our fellow prime minister is not here. I ask you nicely to get our synopsiss and get what is possible as soon as possible and that this basic document is updated. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27544	Thank you. And distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27545	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I estimate that this document is a few years late and that it may have been made in the last two, three years, so maybe it's an excuse for a picture like this that we have in the assessment of the current situation. I have to say, I couldn't agree with the evaluations of the current situation. Why? In the introduction we write quite extensively about the problems of the recession of the world market and economic events. And what are we talking about Croatia? We're talking about an incorrect state, an untrue state, if we're talking about the present moment. I quote: "The effort to achieve economic growth is supported by fiscal policy, stable exchange rate, low inflation, further reduction of the state budget." It's an assessment of the current situation. I find that we, as Parliamentarians, have problems agreeing to this grade. Maybe it was two years ago. As early as 2008, there was no such situation, and today it is quite different. We don't have economic growth, we don't have a stable rate, we don't have safe, we have low inflation, and we have problems with the deficit of the state budget. Thus, the present state is deviating from what is written. So part of these recession problems outside, but also part of our internal we have present are not indicated in the balance assessment other than some of the problems we have. But the next sentence seems to me to be the biggest problem for the further quality of this document, and it is costing social infrastructure and security are balanced with the level of sustainability in the current economic conditions. I assume that social infrastructure is considered both the pension system and the health system and the social system. Look, I'm not gonna say anything about retirement because at this point we're arguing about the first and second pension pillar, but it's obvious that neither of them are solved, that they're terrible deficits, that we don't have a secure pension system, that we don't know the way out of these problems. And in the health and indifference problem, the deficits and I would say to an unrounded financial system, the health system should also not be spoken. Therefore, we are two fundamental problems which, if we do not solve, we will not solve the sustainable development and security of the citizens of Croatia. Therefore, they cannot agree and some of us at the SDP club find it difficult to agree with these findings expressed in the current assessment of the situation because we simply approach the main objectives differently then and quite differently. In my debate, I will remain only on the sustainability of production and consumption. And also to conclude that I cannot agree with the main objective set out in this chapter. Making a balanced and stable growth of the economy that would have less impact on further environmental degradation and waste generation. I would say the goal that was set is to make the most of the contribution in creating this document was the Ministry of Environmental Protection, because it is in some way and through these set goals visible how it is trying to take care of the environment, about the waste. So, about these negative effects of production, and we're not essentially setting a goal that's the goal of production? Are we aware that we want to join the European Union? That we are now about 8,000 euros in average income per capita, and that the European Union is already registering around 20,000. That our goal may have to be in just five, six years to 15 grand. How do you set that up? How do you put it? And, of course, through this economic growth, it solves the two most important pillars of social policy that are pensions and health care. How much is the problem, and you yourself have stated that we have problems with insufficient I would say quality regional economic, regional economic development. Therefore, in these objectives, as we speak already in the economic and economic policy chapter, we had to have very clearly defined within which time, which is the height of economic growth, which regional development is probably something more and about the very economic branches themselves. Because we simply set the goal that the Ministry of Economy had a greater impact, I believe that we could have a very clearly defined main objective when it comes to the Department of Sustainable Production and Consumption. Unfortunately, we don't have that goal. And at that point, we see that we are unambitious and we have no quality goals in activities, or measures and activities. Because as we can see here, all of our concentration... to the amount of agricultural product, I apologize, agricultural land quality of production, even organic quality production, livestock production, but we are coming to an area of industry, economy, at that moment we do not see what our goal is to promote such economic growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because all production only relates to the protection of the environment and the reduction of waste production. So we don't see how in industry, I would tell the economic branches to achieve a fundamental goal, a strong economic growth that will solve our social problems. Therefore, the problem of the document that the competent ministries were not present, we have no high-quality objectives, and that is, I would say the biggest problem because the government did not coordinate this document because we also had to have a profession from other ministries present on this document. Therefore, unfortunately, the assessment given by the representative of our club and which says that the document is indeterminate, that it is inconclusive, but unfortunately and unambitious, stands and that is why all of us MPs are put into a great dilemma. We need this document, we need to bring this document, but we need to be behind the document that we're assessing not to paint today, nor enough ambition to change this picture today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27546	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative finally want to say? Yeah. Dear Nikola Ružinski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and thank you to all the parliamentary deputies who have tried to stay this late, who have tried to study this strategy and who have made an effort to give their views. The fact is that when the word sustainable development is mentioned, it has a very, very much perspective on sustainable development, it has several definitions. There's this, everyone's looking from their point of view, businessmen from their own, security guards from their own, health workers from their own, so there and often there's a great controversy about it. What we have heard today is a major objection to the size, in detail, of what this strategy has brought, especially by opposition representatives, mostly of the SDP where perhaps the days for us who have done this great confirmation that this strategy should be passed. This strategy and through criticism of this strategy we have received a lot of confirmation that this strategy should be adopted. What I would like to point out is that the strategy in other countries in different countries is being adopted in different ways in different ways. I'm sorry that we don't have a chance, a time, or that you haven't had a chance to see other countries' strategies where, say, a strategy, the Swedish strategy has twenty pages that are also general, but they are strong. The German strategy has two hundred fifty-seven pages. Taking this discussion today that we had here, this thousand-page strategy of ours would not be enough because indeed everyone in their area has said a number of remarks, but also a series of suggestions. I, if you allow me, will take what you have said as a kind of criticism of the strategy as a confirmation that something needs to be done, take a series of suggestions that should be made. What I would just like to point out is that we have opted for a strategy that continues with the action plans. What is said in certain parts, these are action plans that need to be confirmed and they need to implement this strategy in a way that you have suggested today, perhaps with some exceptions. I would like to draw attention to Honorary Representative Ostojić that he gave me criticism for asbestos, so I'm part of the team that started and that after 85 years of production of asbestos in this country, we've done a lot to protect human health from asbestos, protect workers, protect the population, here's the process of resuscitating that playground where the children, which is actually a dump site, is one buried coffee we've spent. So maybe I appreciate your concern for asbestos and the asbestos problem, but we really did something about that asbestos. I would also like to draw your attention to you, you may not have noticed, but I also told the distinguished MP Holly on the committee in 2002, Croatia was determined to develop a sustainable development strategy, in 2002 the then government made a decision on the commission, on the committee to take the strategy, at the head of the committee was the president of the then government. When we got there, here I was somewhere in 2005, in the ministry I didn't find a single document, nothing was done. So it's our responsibility that this strategy came a little later, but it came and the strategy will be made. Now, what I have to say is, here's the answer to some things, I should be answering this for hours, everything we've been listening to for hours, it doesn't have to be answered, but I'd just like to say, let's say that, for example, Reverend Denona, he said that they all have the right to a high standard. So, I would expect anything from any party, but the Socialist Party or the SDP, the social party that has in its programme that, do we all have the right? Of course we're right. How's that high standard going to be? He'll be tall for years, but I'm sure we've got him. Part of this strategy can't be a fight against cauliflowers or something, it's action plans that will be adopted, but it's obvious that some MPs see that there are certain problems and they need to be solved. I'm sorry that there is no honourable representative of Flege here to get into the controversy about what life is learning, to get into the controversy about what needs to be done and how the problem of education can be solved because he and I have had opportunities in our part at some point to be each on our duty, to be in charge of developing education, education, higher education, and so on and so on and I would disagree with his findings. And this sustainable development strategy is not focused on environmental protection, but the sustainable development strategy is focused on those three pillars we talked about and it has to be like that and it is not as the esteemed representative of the Gajica roof document said, but it is so roofing that it conditioned that the other strategies must have these three components in them, but the country development strategy is something else. And I'm not going to answer to Reverend Pancic's question whether he's a sustainable railway builder. One of the basic things today that is in Europe, which is in the world to prefer the construction of railways which are certainly more favourable than this because of the way energy is consumed and the environmental impact is not... So we're going to develop the strategy further, we're going to go through action plans, we're going to give this High House occasionally through the committees of reports that have been made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And once again I thank you all whether you support us or have given us through your criticism certain suggestions as to how we will proceed. And that's what I'd end up with, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27548	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're about to interrupt today's session. Tomorrow we will continue with item 5 of the Report on the Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27549	We move to the Proposal for a Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. Prior to the conclusion of the debate, the government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. The amendments were submitted by attorney Gordana Sobol. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. State Secretary, Mr. Nikola Ruzhinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27550	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We've got two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27551	First amendment to Mrs. Sobol, amendment to principle one, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27552	Yeah. The amendment cannot be accepted because the text is already contained in the introductory section where gender equality is stated precisely that gender is also part of this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27553	Thank you. Mrs. Sobol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27554	Mr. Secretary of State, in the opening section other things of principle are also numbered, so I see no reason not to, that the principle of promoting gender equality is also introduced into these general principles. At the end of the line, it is also in line with the Law on Gender Equality that we adopted last year and national policy to promote gender equality. And gender equality is one of the greatest values of the constitutional ones regarding the Republic of Croatia. So there's really no reason, and given those amendments that you've actually accepted as a government, that now in these general principles, besides the general principles where human rights are spoken of, you don't include the principle of promoting gender equality. Well, I'm really asking my colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, we've included gender equality principles in a series of legal provisions in our own amendments, and that in the Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Croatia, I really don't think that this is right. I'm really asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27555	I am putting this amendment on one of the Mrs. Representatives of Gordana Sobol who the government does not accept to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving to Amendment 2 of the same MPs, page 28. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27556	Thank you very much. We cannot accept this amendment because the content of this main objective is significantly changed, and the rest is contained in the strategy itself, so we do not see any particular reason to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27557	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27558	Mr. President, Secretary of State. Amendment 2 that I have submitted is in that section of the health care chapter and in which the goals that we want to achieve within therefore our health policy to change, to change one item and to read: “To improve, to develop health education of citizens with a special emphasis on health education programmes for children and young people.” I think that is, therefore, in line with all that we have written in our other laws. But it should be said that in the context of health reform health education is primarily important for prevention and is therefore necessary from the earliest days of education. When talking about health education, it is certainly necessary to include the issue of sexual education in schools as one of the essential elements in preventing, above all, the various forms of sexually transmitted diseases, premature and unwanted pregnancy, as well as the particular psychological difficulties young people face during childhood. And we are witnessing that this kind of education is completely excluded from our education system. I must remind you, recently, the government has hesitated with the award of “the pearls of wisdom” in connection with the program, the National Cancer Control Programme for the Door of the uterus. We have had the opportunity to hear a variety of experts warning that what is missing in Croatia is education of children and young people through health education, and then in the context of sexual education. Therefore, I ask my colleagues and colleagues to vote in favour of this amendment. It does not change anything important but complements, where we as a state commit to giving a special emphasis on health education programmes for children and young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-17-0.u27559	Thank you very much. I'm putting this second amendment of Mrs. Sobol to a vote that the government doesn't normally accept. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I therefore put the proposal for a sustainable development strategy for the Republic of Croatia to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The sustainable development strategy of the Republic of Croatia was adopted with a majority of votes, 75 votes in favour, 30 abstentions and 3 votes against. The Environmental Protection Committee has proposed a conclusion. It is up to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction to include interested public and NGOs in drawing up action plans. I ask that this proposal be made manifest. So we'll put him to the vote. The government accepted it. Who's for this proposal's conclusion please raise your hand? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Unanimity. How much? It was unanimously with 119 votes that this conclusion was accepted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work and move forward: - Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the legal authority of the Government has been submitted in the report pursuant to Article 3. The Government's power law to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section, you received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, Mr Emil Tomljanović, chairman of the Committee, please.
