ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26049	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. At first, I would like to point out and draw attention to the importance of this matter, this bill, because the parent committee for this Law on the mortuary activities of the Assembly Committee on Reconstruction and Development, so I believe that they have also thoroughly examined this bill and made a contribution to the renewal and development. Secondly, what I want to resolve at the beginning of every debate, this bill after several months of talks, consultation and writing of its text, I have taken over on behalf of the Association of undertakers of the Republic of Croatia, who has been in collaboration with the Ministry and other state bodies for seven years now, pointing to certain problems and offering different solutions to these problems. But so far, the ministry has not wanted to take the initiative and the existing laws to change or suggest that the funeral activity be regulated in this way. The government, as well as the parent board, also argues and proceeds from the fact that funeral activity is not a municipal activity, but an economic activity. That's what everyone points out. By 2004, it was indeed so that the funeral activity was treated exclusively as an economic activity. But even before that, while the Unchanged Law on the Communist Economy was valid, there was a lot of uncertainty in its interpretation and application, so in 2002, the Croatian Parliament had a request for authentic interpretation of certain provisions of the Law on the Communist Economy. In his conclusion, he refused to give an interpretation with an explanation, and I will quote the most important part. “It is also evident that jobs related to funeral or cremation carried out outside the territory of the cemetery or crematorium such as takeover, transfer of the deceased person, preparation of the deceased for burial or cremation, clothing, editing, embalming, sale of funeral equipment, burial organization or cremation, printing of obituaries, contracting religious rituals or the like, and transporting the deceased to a special vehicle from the place of death to the cemetery or crematorium are tasks that can be performed by a natural or legal person freely on the market if he meets the prescribed conditions and without concession because they cannot be considered communal jobs. Therefore, such provisions and such a relationship with the funeral activity of the Croatian Parliament had until 2004. The amendments to the Law on the municipal economy in 2004 have defined the funeral activity as about half the municipal, half the economic. If funeral activity is not a municipal activity, then why is it established, prescribed and regulated by the Law on the municipal economy? The government's opinion of November last year creates additional confusion or confusion, so let me comment on what the government has responded to this bill. First, it finds that the transport of the deceased and maintenance of the cemetery and crematorium is governed by the Law on the Communist Economy. That's right. The activity of the equipment of the deceased person, the sale of funeral equipment, the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy of 2004 is not a municipal but economic activity and can be carried out by all natural and legal persons who meet the conditions under special regulations freely on the market and that is part of the government's position with which we who have worked on this proposal for a new law. But the government is still writing. However, the activity of maintaining the cemetery and crematorium and transport of the deceased is of particular importance for the local community and can therefore not be carried out on a purely market principle but according to the principles of the municipal economy as a public service based on the decision and units of local self-government, as is now governed by the Law on the municipal economy. This part where it's about maintaining the cemetery and the crematorium that it's a communal economy, that it's important for the local community not to question anyone. That is why Croatia has a special Law on Cemeteries that regulates the way in which cemeteries are managed, or crematories. But also transporting the deceased to be treated at one point as a communal, or activity of importance to the local community, and in another, as a purely economic activity that can be carried out freely on the market, it conflicts with one another. Indeed, if any activity is of particular importance to the local community, then it is only a fair solution that this activity is carried out through concessions and no different. Whether municipal or urban or county concessions is another matter. But we can't treat some activity first as purely economic, and then claim it's of particular importance and that the local community regulates and assigns it to someone but without concessions. The government explains this view: "This is because according to the Law on the Communist Economy, municipal activity is supporting cemeteries and crematories, understands the maintenance of space and buildings, carrying out escorts and funerals of the deceased." This is all true, but the Law on the Communist Economy in Article 3 paragraph 10 does not speak of the transport of the deceased, but of the cemetery, the crematorium and the burial itself, and the subject of this bill is not the burial, nor of the maintenance of the cemetery, nor of the crematorium, but of the funeral activity, which I will later explain, from the place of death to the cemetery, and not of what is happening in the cemetery. The government further mentions and warns us that there is a special Law on Cemeteries, which is good and accurate and realizes that no other municipal activities are regulated by specific regulations, namely that municipal activity is governed only by the Law on Community Activity, which is simply not true because a sentence above that says that there is a special Law on Cemeteries as part of the municipal activity. So we already have a part of the law that regulates communal matter as special laws, which is, say, the Law on Cemetery. Finally, the government announces a new Law on the Communist Economy, which is reportedly in preparation and that any ambiguities or disputes can be regulated by this new law that the government will propose. Thus, this sentence gives the Government the impression that they are also aware that there is a certain part of the problem in this area and that in the preparation of the new Law on the Communist Economy they intend to resolve it. I find it strange to insist on setting up a funeral activity in the Law on the Communist Economy, if I remain on the claim that it is not municipal activity, but economic activity. In the bill of law, we have offered a clear definition of what a funeral activity is. In the sense of this law, it is to provide services for the takeover, transport, equipment of the deceased person and the funeral organization, i.e. cremation. They have clearly defined which jobs the undertaker can perform, download and transport from the death site to the competent institution for pathology, cemetery, crematorium, airport, railway station, sea or river ports and other terminals for the transport of deceased persons. Furthermore, the organisation of transport and transport of deceased persons on the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as the takeover and transport of deceased persons abroad. Organisation of transport and transport of deceased persons, in accordance with international standards and regulations, funeral organisation, sale of funeral equipment, organisation of printing of death notice, organisation and provision of services, the bodies of deceased persons and other tasks necessary to carry out those activities. Therefore, we do not in any way enter into that part of the municipal activity relating to the burial from the morgue to the burial site, or grave, which is the municipal activity is regulated in part of the Law on the municipal economy, and part of the Law on Cemeteries. We predict that, in order to carry out this activity, it should be licensed, i.e. that the person involved in this business should have a licence issued by the competent offices of the state administration, i.e. the administrative body of the City of Zagreb. We consider that it is a significant service for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that only those who are eligible for certain conditions, which are also prescribed by law, so the conditions for obtaining a licence are laid down, that it has a good reputation, that it has a financial capacity, that a natural person or a responsible person in a legal person has the right professional capacity, that he legally owns a business space that meets minimum technical conditions, that he legally owns at least one funeral vehicle, that he legally owns or has an uninterrupted access to a parking lot for funeral vehicles which must again meet the minimum technical organisational conditions. The terms and conditions of financial capacity are also foreseen, so I am merely setting an example that the financial capacity under this law would be, if the undertaker has at his disposal assets of at least 150 thousand kuna. The submission of professional training examinations as one of the preconditions for obtaining a licence provided by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which would also bring a specific training and laying programme of the examination itself. The conditions for carrying out the mortuary activity under the technical sanitary conditions prescribed by the Minister with the consent of the Ministry of Health, as well as the provisions concerning the price list and its publication, are also laid down. So, these clear definitions of conditions, licences, work permits, as well as strict sanctions, we tried to offer a legal solution, create order, perform this, by our economic activity. Since the government is also suggesting or acknowledging that a certain part of the problem exists, let me single out just a few for now. Communal companies established under the Law on the municipal economy, whose founders are the municipalities, but mostly the cities that are also carried out and the activities of maintenance of the cemetery under the Law on Cemeteries, appear on the market in this purely economic activity and offer services of burial activity. They come to the market with dumping prices, and the difference between costs covering or increasing the price of services in the cemetery, such as the price of the burial site or the annual fee for the maintenance of the cemetery, or simply at the end of the business year, which the founder, i.e. the owner, is therefore the most common city must, by law, resuscitate and take over. Due to the great competition and large numbers and these utility companies, as well as private entrepreneurs on the market, there was an anarchy and dual interpretation, as well as the application of the regulations themselves. Furthermore, part of private entrepreneurs to this unfair competition or dumping price corresponds either to tax evasion or to services past all standards and levels, so we have funeral home companies registered on the 16th floor of the skyscraper, and funeral vehicles parked where the tenants park. All in order to radically reduce costs and fight for existence in that market. Those who wish to carry out this activity in accordance with the law, pay all taxes, the contributions they are required by law, but also aware that they are working in extremely sensitive activities, are simply cornered and cannot behave normally on the market anymore. And so we come to the closing of the circle of unfair competition, riots and anarchy, and we also have cases in some cities, that the Citizens' Association Post-Murders establish a company, a funeral company and condition that I do not say to blackmail users of services, so those who pay for the funeral aid must use services only by companies that are the founder of the Association of Citizens. Is the desire and intention of the legislation was for citizens' associations as post-mortem aids to carry out the communal activity of the mortuary, if it is a communal or purely economic activity if we view it as a purely economic activity. It is one of the new forms of creating market riots and unfair competition. Where dependent users can be created in advance if they want to use certain bonuses only for certain funeral companies. And it is a rare case for citizens' associations to set up companies to carry out activities that the government says is of particular importance to the local community. It seems to me that only in the City of Zagreb is the company that manages the cemetery "City Cemetery" not performing the funeral activity as well. I'm not saying, but it seems to me it's only in the City of Zagreb. Therefore, the company established for the management of cemeteries in accordance with the Law on Cemeteries also does not appear on the market as well as the provider of services of funeral activity. Well, it seems to me that in Zagreb alone, there is an association of citizens who founded a company for funeral activities. When you connect, you come up with a strange situation and maybe you answer the question why is that? Therefore, the aim of this law is to create clear rules, strict conditions, strict sanctions and declaring or establishing funeral activities as purely economic activities. And I would also like to point out that this bill does not exclude the possibility that existing municipal companies owned by the local community are carrying out this activity by establishing companies, companies... but it must then go to the market and only for this activity be registered, trained and responsible for its financing, and not from the city budget to cover the losses that arises, which are most often and difficult to determine whether they are created in funeral activities, in the management of cemeteries, in the transport of garbage or other municipal activity that arises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is these excesses of possible losses that always go on the burden of taxpayers that, by adopting this bill, may not be entirely but to a large extent, it would certainly be prevented. The model to which the model was offered is German so that it would be no secret. So, with this approach and this way, we found the economic activity of the mortuary activity in Germany. That is why we have taken this example because it is suitable for both the Republic of Croatia and because it is a single activity where indeed several hundred entrepreneurs are presently in a situation simply ahead of failure, bankruptcy and failure, but not because they are incompetent, but because it is a single market where at this very moment the most unfair competition, with... prices which are later covered by the budget of cities, i.e. owners of these companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If, however, we accept the Government's claim that this activity is of particular importance for the local community, then the only solution is that it should be a municipal activity and that the exercise of that activity is awarded through concession. And then again, we have a clean situation. However, neither the former law until 2004 nor the one proposed by the Government in 2004, and also announces a new one does not foresee that the activity is being awarded a concession. And I'm afraid that once again, the new Law on the Communist Economy will be a gemist solution offered and that the essence of the problem will not be solved. This isn't about whether I personally or you personally consider this law to be good or bad. But we simply have to answer the question whether we should react and try to regulate relations on the market of this service offered to Croatian citizens in a better way than it is now, because I am sure that you all know together how many problems there are in particular in some major cities regarding the financing of these municipal companies dealing with this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26050	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26051	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs and MPs. Let me speak with a few words on behalf of the HDZ Club and on the proposal of this law. At first, I can say that the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support the proposal for a law on mortuary activity proposed by Parliament representative Dragutin Lesar. As noted in the introduction, when we talk about the funeral activity itself, and to better understand the problems and dictionaries of the common man, then we can partly dismember it to the transport of the deceased and the maintenance of cemeteries and crematories, which are now also covered by the Law on the municipal economy, and by equipping the deceased person, and the sale of funeral equipment. Under this first one, it was arranged as I said in the introduction of the Law on the Communist Economy of the "National Journal" No. 26 of 2003 but was also declared an economic activity by the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Community Economy of 2004 and that it can work on market principles. The Law on the Communist Economy says that and so is the maintenance of cemeteries and crematories, and according to the Law on the Communist Economy and the transport of the deceased, the activity of particular importance for the local community is not purely marketable but through the principles of the municipal economy as a public service and according to the decisions of the units of local self-government. It should be mentioned here that there is a special clarification regarding the maintenance of cemeteries and crematories, which implies that it is the maintenance of space and buildings to carry out the dispatch and burial of the deceased and the burial and cremation of the deceased, except for the above mentioned law of construction, use and management of cemeteries is governed by another law, it is the Law on cemeterys of the "National Journal" 19/98. The cemetery is said to be a municipal facility owned by units of local self-government. In its concept, it has its own administration which is managed and only the cemetery is a fenced space with accompanying buildings, which means crematorium, mortuary, halls and stage, a space for escorting the dead. For better monitoring of this topic, the system of financing and co-financing should also be mentioned and, with the payment of the nearest deceased, it is important to mention that through the grave compensation prescribed by the law of the local self-government competent authority and through the municipal contribution in which the specific part is alimentated as part of the funding for the cemetery is also a co-financing segment which therefore speaks of the subject in a specific and legal manner. When we talk about the bill proposed by Mr. Lesar, it primarily involves the organisation of transport and transport of the deceased person, the organisation of the funeral, the sale of funeral equipment and the organisation of printing, the notification and the service of the body itself. We said that the transport of the deceased by virtue of the Law on the Communist Economy was defined as taking over and transporting the deceased from the place of death to the morgue at the cemetery or crematorium. The question is what, how and how does the law determine the concept of carrying out municipal activity, it is stated that it can be like a company established by a unit of local self-government, that it can be a public institution, that it can be a service or own drive, a legal and natural person based on a concession contract and a legal and physical person on the basis of a public service contract. In most cases, therefore in accordance with the law today and when we talk about transport arranged as a municipal activity, this law is carried out in accordance with this law as its own company established by a unit of local self-government or a company established by a unit of local self-government which is their activity in the register of operations. And another and that is exactly the concession contract in which a funeral activity can also be carried out. When we talk about the segment of transport where the biggest challenge is here to say that by making amendments and supplementing the law in 2004. The Association of undertakers I think the City of Zagreb submitted a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of that bill, so to initiate the constitutional assessment procedure itself and to which the Constitutional Court was manifested and did not accept that proposal for the assessment of constitutionality, citing the following. Therefore, in accordance with the Law on the Communist Economy, I quote, the legislator is entitled to do so, so that the transport of the deceased person from the place of death to the mortuary at the cemetery or crematorium is declared to be a communal activity and after the declaration of the communal activity of the unit of local self-government is authorised to decide independently in accordance with the Constitution and the legal powers entrusted to carry out that municipal activity in accordance with Article 4(1). The Law on the municipal economy, while taking into account the requirements of efficiency and economics on the one hand, as well as the achievement of public interest, which is embodied in each public service on the other hand. A specific reference is given to the unequal position on the market as the position of the Association of undertakers where the Constitutional Court says that changes in the legal nature of a particular activity, which means, in particular, the declaration of one up until then, the economic activity of the municipal activity necessarily requires the adaptation of the new operating conditions of all entities involved in this activity. Thus, an unequivocal answer is given to this subject and problem. I'm going to look back at this moment and I'm going to look at a proposal from the promoter that's related to getting a license. And, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown, in its proposal for a new Law on the Communist Economy, possible good installation of some new proposals, solutions as such will be taken into account. I find that obtaining a licence as a prerequisite for potentially reporting to a concession can be considered a positive direction but by obtaining the licence itself and by respecting all the provisions necessary for obtaining a licence and by doing so, we do not consider it good on a purely market basis, so that the practice in the Republic of Croatia in recent years has denied it without speaking about it in detail. I will also refer to the comment on the introduction of the proposal that the municipal companies that have a good share today and transport are thus co-financed or touched from urban, municipal budgets where these utility companies exist because they can... Prices affect unfair competition and, in fact, taxpayers, the bonds are rescheduled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This position cannot be accepted as a general assessment but as with other business segments of quality and good business of municipal enterprises, which, in accordance with the law on the municipal economy, is the fulfillment of all those under the Law on the municipal economy of assigned businesses and, in fact, the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia... those activities and not obtaining profits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But from the example of the city where I come from, absolutely, it's a different situation, and it often depends mostly on situations and about municipal companies in the areas of cities and municipalities where they are. And finally. Since the government, I repeat, has now announced, the preparation of the new Law on the Communist Economy, possible changes in relation to the current law and I will say that, the rules of conduct may be welcome, but such a bill on the funeral activity of the Croatian Demographic Community club will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26052	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26053	President-in-Office of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first I would like to point out that the Croatian People's Party club will support the adoption of this law is the first law that fully regulates this activity in Croatia. It is now an act of funeral activity in the domain of the Law on the Communist Economy, resulting in the fact that there are obstacles and conflicts between municipal enterprises engaged in burial and private entrepreneurs carrying out the sale of funeral equipment and transport of the deceased from the death site to the morgue at the cemetery. Recommendations and conflicts mainly relate to the transport of the deceased, and only to a small part of the sale of funeral equipment. By the time the Law on the Communist Economy was amended in 2004, the funeral activity in the section relating to the transport of the deceased from the place of death to the cemetery could have been communal, economic activity and, accordingly, more than 300 private entrepreneurs entered the competition to perform that part of the funeral activity. The amendments to the Law on municipal activities in 2004 found that, with the maintenance of cemetery and crematorium, the burial and cremation of the deceased and the transport of the deceased from the place of death to the mortuary in the cemetery or crematorium, the communal activity and the equipment of the deceased and the sale of mortuary equipment market activity. As a result, local self-government units are authorised to decide autonomously in accordance with constitutional and legal powers entrusted to carry out the communal activity of the deceased from the place of death to the morgue, taking into account efficiency and economic requirements on the one hand, as well as the realisation of public interest embodied in each public service on the other. As a rule, if the founders of a municipal company which deals among other things and funeral jobs, municipalities and cities have entrusted their company with the order of the Law on the municipal economy services of the maintenance of the cemetery, burial and transport of the deceased from the place of death to the mortuary in the cemetery. However, if they do not have such an undertaking or are not qualified for a funeral activity, they have opened a concession invitation to tender, which is generally referred to by private entrepreneurs. Some units of local self-government have opted for the transport of the deceased to compete and award concessions even though they own a qualified municipal company for the funeral activity. In practice, therefore, the present situations assigned complete funeral activities to the company owned only works of the mortuary activity i.e. the maintenance of the cemetery and burial of its undertaking, the sale of tenders and the award of concessions for the complete funeral activity to the best bidders or the sale of tenders and the award of concessions only for the transport of the deceased person from the place of death to the morgue. The fact is that many private entrepreneurs entered into the business of transporting the deceased, bought vehicles, invested in offices and other funeral equipment because in many municipalities and cities there was no adequate utility for this. Or they were not interested in performing that part of the funeral activity. On the other hand, there are environments where they are trained, equipped and interested and communal companies, as well as private individuals who believe that this job can be better or as well as communals, and thus cheaper. We must also respect the fact that a private enterprise initiative in performing the work of funeral activities has been present for the last 15 years, and before that all funeral work has been done in some sort of organisation and responsibility of the municipal services. This also means that utility companies have invested in vehicles, business premises, morgues and other necessary equipment to carry out funeral activities. It is indisputable that part of the mortuary activity relating to the morgue, maintenance, construction of the cemetery and digs is and must be of particular interest to local authorities, and it is logical to protect the Law on municipal activities, it is with the right to operate a municipal enterprise owned by a local self-government unit. For part of the mortuary activity relating to the transport of the deceased from death to the morgue, we are inclined not to protect it by the Law on municipal activities, i.e. the possibility of competition between municipal companies and private entrepreneurs should be made possible. Of course, even in the case of liberalisation in carrying out the work of transporting the deceased, some municipalities and the city will be able to declare that part of the funeral activity a municipal activity, i.e. of your special interest. But it would probably be more exceptions then than rules. In any event, with the exception of the transport of the deceased from municipal activities, private citizens would have a better chance of experiencing a range of concessions to carry out the operations of transport of the deceased by the municipality or the city than is now. The problem of course is not easy and easy to solve, primarily because of the fact that local authorities are having difficulty deciding to spread concessions to carry out the transport of the deceased when they have trained and equipped their utility to do so because they always prevent the practical issue, and where the utility company with a special vehicle for transporting the deceased, if the privateer will do the job. Where's one or two drivers going? Of course, now and by private people come up with the same questions. And we have vehicles, we invest in them, we're in charge. How can we survive if the communals are protected and we cannot enter a tender for the job? Respecting the interests of the conflicted parties of communals who have protected the Law on municipal activities and private persons who entered the business of transporting the deceased before the law greatly reduced their chances of living off their jobs in 2004, we believe that it would be good if each of them were given an equal chance in obtaining that part of the funeral work. I am free to say that for the majority of private entrepreneurs carrying out the transport of the deceased it is also the only possibility of survival on the market and ensuring the existence of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26054	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26055	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Discussing this issue on the proposal of counterpart Lesar, I think that in previous discussions, there has already been something very important pointed out at the very beginning, which is that there is actually only a dispute over one part of these services, and that is the transport of the deceased person. I'll get back to that question. However, at the very beginning, I would say that when discussing this proposal, some, as we have heard here, should be completely separated. These are the activities of the equipment itself of the deceased person and the sale of equipment, all clear, belonging to it, of activities relating to the cemetery, their construction, maintenance of the crematorium, but here is the Law on the Communist Economy and Transport of the Dead. In fact, the first two items actually refer to the equipment of the deceased person and the sale of these funeral equipment because, as is said here, economic activity and it is normal to have a competition for this, which makes it clear that, according to that law, everyone can compete. And if that were true, here's my colleague Vincelj said the information that I know, over 300 funeral entrepreneurs in that game participates equally and they participate in the distribution of that job. This is definitely familiar to all of us, and that means that it is allowed equally and physically and legal persons to deal with it, clearly if they meet the conditions according to specific regulations. However, this second activity we have heard about, which is therefore the maintenance of the cemetery and the crematorium and the transport of the deceased, I think it should be said, however, that it is an activity from, as it is stated everywhere and as heard here, of the significance of the local self-government units. They are the founders of the municipal company and everyone that exists there and therefore by decision of the city councils we all know that, we trust them with certain tasks which clearly and arises from the need. Because who's actually going to take over the funeral home tomorrow, the morgue, the crematorium and everything that's going on, if not the utility companies, because they've always done it. I mean, leaving it to someone else by me would lead to some confusion. Therefore, it is purely municipal business of the interest of the local self-government unit. As mayor, let's just say that we in our town have no problem with that. Neither the utility company nor the private persons who appear freely on the market in the participation of the deceased or the sale of funeral equipment. And that they can participate equally with the utility company. So there are some jobs that I don't really think can go to a competition, so they have to stay where they are because they're of interest to the local self-government unit. That this is the case, the reasons for this claim arises in Article 3(10) of the basic Regulation. The Law on the Communal Economy. And he says, it is stated by the promoter himself, he will agree that communal activity is in fact the maintenance of cemeteries and crematories and it involves maintenance and space and buildings to perform all already the jobs resulting from the dispatch and funeral of the deceased, burial or cremation, etc. Also, the Law of Cemeteries, which is also mentioned here, in '98. He clearly arranged for the construction and use and management of cemeteries. And it's prescribed in a way that these objects are owned by a local self-government unit. I mean, it makes sense to me, then, that the local self-government unit is going to start a company that's its founder, and it's a utility company, and it's going to trust these jobs. After all, if there is a dispute or doubt somewhere, he agreed with this and the Proposer, if it will work and work out how we have heard here, so the new Law on the Communist Economy, then some of these doubts can be clearly incorporated into it, so it is logical that the adoption of a special law, as proposed by the Proposer, is not really necessary because all other municipal activities are not arranged. And so there's the government absolutely right. They're not governed by special laws. I mean why separate it now. Then we could separate all other jobs that are in municipal activity and have a special law for each. Then why do we need the Community Economy Act? What do we need in the first place, then, the law that we have and which we can do as such? For these reasons, they certainly cannot agree with the promoter that the undertakers are in an unequal position to enforce the law in relation to municipal enterprises and that, as they are also quoted, therefore those who are preferred, therefore the utility companies have a monopoly. They're not even unsupervised. No, they've got their own surveillance, too. It's definitely either that they're in violation. They're not in any kind of violation of me if they're acting according to the city council's decision, and in fact, according to the Law on the Communist Economy again. I think we who live in cities that we know and know of the municipal economy, so in this respect we have utility companies whose founders are city councils we definitely cannot agree with that assumption. Besides, utility companies are if we're going to talk about financial sides are cheaper, but not for the reasons they're listed, but for some other reasons they're cheaper and they don't actually make any losses with their services. I can confirm this in my own city as mayor that there is nothing, nor are they a burden to the city budget, nor to anyone in any position that can be clearly seen. When it comes to transport in practice as a challenge to someone here in practice, funeral entrepreneurs are mostly involved in the sale of equipment, but also in the transport to a morgue or crematorium. We counted just before, over three hundred of them are involved in this game market and I think they're absolutely even in this regard. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26056	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26057	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will use the possibility that when I first read this problem in general, I will speak more in general about the problem of municipal companies, even in this case when it comes to funeral services. My approach, however, will be significantly different from the approach of fellow Matkovic, and I think it is good to oppose our reflections on this problem and try to reach the best quality solution. I am pleased that my colleague, Lesar, has put this bill before us because it opens up the possibility of us entering an area where we still have a lot to do. My colleagues and colleagues, in many cities, probably in yours, as well as in mine where I live, there are a large number of utility companies, and with these utility companies, I see a large number of problems. First of all, we know how these companies form their prices. We know what employees' salaries are in these utility companies. I would feel free to say that they still have one monopoly position in many segments of their work, that there is no competition. We know how the losses of utility companies are covered by the rise of the majority in the city council. Come in, colleagues and colleagues, into the room of the director of such a utility company, and you will see luxury, unseen luxury. No director of any hospital in Croatia has a room as well as the directors of our utility companies. No university professor has a cabinet or approximately the way the director works, including his secretary and many other employees in utility companies. Look at Mr. Director and his associates' fleet. My colleagues and colleagues, let's be honest and let's talk about how people are employed in utility companies. Is there any partying or is it exclusively going along the line of expertise? Let's not be naive, it is a serious problem in the work of our utility companies, a very serious problem. On this subject, I will give my colleague Lesar a series of objections concerning this bill. We are given an example of the city of Zagreb as a positive example, and I really support it. I think they might have done the right thing. But if I were to be sure that the concessions for other jobs came into the hands of those who were the most professional, most capable, not the hands of those whose competition was set. That's the problem. Regarding my expertise, I, my colleague Lesar, object to what is proposed here in Articles 10 and 11 of Article 11. I think there's a lot of extra text here, a lot. That's where things happen again. I would even bring it all down to three items in Article 11. It is an item. Just give me time seven, eight and nine. They practically cover everything. This second is a strange divorce, obviously to fill out some content in these articles. Here, take a look at this. “A professionally qualified person” I read in Article 10(2). "who successfully completed the adult secondary education programme". Take care of adults for the purpose of performing funeral activities or has passed an examination of the professional training to carry out funeral activities. So, colleague Lesar, a sanitary engineer, would not have been trained. One doctor would not have been trained because he did not finish adult education to do these jobs, which is ridiculous. Thus, these two articles do not really hold water. They should be significantly improved and repaired, and then I agree that we can give the green light in the second reading. This is how I agree. Once again, I commend your initiative. I think she's good. It points to countless problems for utility companies. But I think we need to change some things by the second reading, and then you'll get my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26058	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26059	Thank you, Mr. President. So allow me at least two corrections related to the speech of the esteemed Mr. Doric. Since I am also directly bound within the city that I am leading along with municipal activities, I am correcting it in terms of cost-effectiveness from office to behavior, I don't know if my colleague may have thought of Zagreb Holding, but on behalf of thousands and thousands of communals and their administrations who are self-inflicted in their work day and night. I have to correct it and it can't be generalized on that matter. And secondly, when we also talk about employment, in the same way, there is a large number of technical persons, persons, engineers today in Croatia, right up until this moment, difficult management was actually very difficult to gain, regardless of party membership. So, first of all, about the profession, with knowledge, and therefore I am using the opportunity to correct it at this point because it is a real situation on the ground, and very often we are in a situation where with quality personnel within such complex activities, we cannot even fill jobs, and it is also manageable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26060	Thank you. Does the Proposer want it finally? Here you go. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26061	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to express my satisfaction because this is the first draft of a law that came from the opposition lines without being declared stupid, stupid and political, but was given a weak grade unnecessary. But despite that, his message rests forever, right? Because the government is going to settle the new Law on the Communist Economy. I did not represent myself here, but more than 300 entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia who entered serious investments to carry out an activity that was economical, so declared communal. It would be interesting to respond on the basis of comparisons of the prices of these services in those areas where the decisions of cities and municipalities are entrusted to municipal companies and to compare this with the prices where the competition was acting. In whose interest is there a monopoly for funeral activities? Who pays the price of monopoly, if not citizens? If we stay on the interpretation that funeral activity is a communal activity, then it's a message to entrepreneurs who have been doing this activity so far, please go ahead and shut down the companies because the jobs will no longer be for you. But let me just point to some arguments and look back. On behalf of the HDZ Club, there was mentioned grave compensation and municipal contribution in terms of co-financing of municipal activity, but indeed with this activity, no grave compensation, no municipal contribution has anything to do with and only in the service of transport and equipment of the deceased. And nothing more. This is also an example of constantly chasing a complete communal activity that applies to the cemetery, construction and maintenance as well as the crematorium. I understand the HDZ's position to support the government's opinion, but then I must say that is the next message. That even the new Law on the municipal economy here won't allow a competition. Furthermore, it follows that indeed all those who have so far invested in vehicles and other equipment to sell this and to give up further competition. The same argument of the concerns of utility companies applies to private ones, those who are private initiatives and private entrepreneurs because they question exactly what you quoted from the Constitutional Court's rulings and arguments. When such a change occurs, when one activity from a purely economic point of view becomes a communal one, the time of adjustment is very important and important. Did we give private entrepreneurs time to adapt by amending the Law on the Communist Economy in 2004? We didn't. Practically within 8 days, there has been a change where their status and condition and position on the market have been radically changed. And that's the essence of the problem, which is simply one quick change of law that immediately came into effect put them in a completely new situation without time of adjustment. Do you remember how we handled other radical changes? That, for example, in breeding animals for fur and fur processing, we've established a transitional period of 8 years. In order for all market operators to adapt to new regulations and new conditions. We didn't do it here. I'll ask the next one. If we are fully treating funeral activity as a communal activity, does this mean that selling wood is a communal activity? Is the sale of wreaths a communal activity? Because it's funeral equipment. So we're not going to agree to interpret that the sale of funeral equipment is a communal activity, are we? Or are we going to put that into practice and interpret it as a funeral activity? I thank those who have supported the proposal in the sense that there is a basis for a decision and a requirement for the Government to regulate this by no longer having a double position and approach to the announced new Law on municipal activity. And it is indeed the last moment for the government, and by accepting the Government's proposal and the Parliament to decide. Cemetery activity is purely communal or purely economic activity? And under the same conditions on that market, they can compete with natural and legal persons no matter who their founders are. And if the municipalities and cities want to have that part of their activities, they can continue to do it, but by setting up a company... from a utility company that will only perform this service on market principles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or we really accept that it is a clean communal activity, but then there is no provision for them to be engaged in natural and legal persons, but for municipalities and cities to choose to start their own utility companies. Because as soon as market freedom and the establishment of private companies are allowed, it imposes obligations on selection through concessions and no other way. I think that rapid change in 2004 without the time of adjustment that should have existed resulted in this situation. But good. My bill will be rejected with a message from private entrepreneurs, stay out of business, sell out vehicles and other equipment and apply to the employment office. There is nothing else I can accept and understand, but that it is a message of rejection of any change in this area. And they're not 10, 20, 50, 100, or 200, but more than 300. We're going to have a monopoly system, we're going to have a system of one company that will dictate prices that no one else will pay more expensively. And it'll all be legal and clean. But it's really not correct of all of us that we first brought more than 300 people into a legal solution to a private initiative, to take credit, and to have the task of dealing with one of the activities that has been declared an economic activity, and then we said overnight, listen not now you won't be able to do it, because this is the general interest of the local community, of particular importance, so we're going to make a mixed solution, and you're going to be exposed to the unfair competition that is getting stronger every day. What kind of answer do you give them now? The undertaker's association there has its members, they're looking for an answer. What do they do? They continue to fight in this one solution that no one understands, nor do the inspection services that conduct surveillance know how to place themselves in it. Or to tell them, we're sorry, shut down companies, fire employees, sell out cars, and they won't be able to do that anymore. They're looking for an answer. The proposal for one answer was before you today, there is no other answer and no one wants to give them a clear message. No one from the competent ministry, the government as a whole, and I'm afraid that after today's debate, there won't be much clarity to them. Thank you for your patience for having the time, someone says this difficult topic early in the morning to listen. I will make sure that in two, three weeks, we open up a more joyful topic that really is in favour of restoration and development, because it is also an important topic, because the parent board, the Committee for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26062	Thank you. There's one correction, Mr. Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26063	Well, Mr. President, Secretary of State, I'd like to correct the alleged co-worker of Lesar who says he's involved in municipal monopoly companies. Listen to these discussions, there is no politicization of Mr. Matkovic, nor with Mr. Turk. We are people who do this in practice and we can confirm that utility companies carry out different activities. So, as it is now organized, and if we take out certain activities and give the concession, I say in practice, I know it around us, we raise prices by 30%. It is not a communal, misstatement and a misrepresentation of completely municipal companies. I speak fully responsible from practice. Therefore, it is not a municipal enterprise that has a monopoly. It indeed deals with all small-scale jobs, and in the larger ones they are divided, and the extraction from this concession will not produce a good result and any improvements that the ministry will give. But this now how it stays and what in practice is pretty good and works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26064	Thank you very much. Mr. Lesar wished for brighter topics, and he also mentioned that he had discussed the Committee on Development and Reconstruction on this law. I will join if you allow me Mr. Lesar and say that in the last century, a large American funeral company has declared the best commercial of the funeral company, and it says, "You just die and the rest is our concern." So if he's looking at it all on the bright side. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when they get the terms. Ninth, Proposal for a Law on Funeral Activity, First Reading, P.Z. No. 183., Proposer: Representative Dragutin Lesar. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: “The proposal for a law on mortuary activity is not accepted.” Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The law was passed by a majority of votes, 77 votes against and 43 against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26067	Thank you, Mr. President. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The four laws today are on the agenda of this session, which the SDP club actually represented the 2009 budgetary policy and we expected them to be discussed before the 2009 budget was adopted. Of these four proposals, we're going to discuss this session today. Since they are not discussed before the budget is adopted in some way, they will push through the debate and acceptance, but when we have an accepted budget for this year. Since inflation began to grow in the second half of 2007 and we had warnings that inflation would affect economic growth and economic flows in Croatia, we have already warned of problems that could arise in the economy and have proposed certain changes to the law that, of course, after the debate and negative opinions of the Government were not accepted. Today, when almost no one seconds that Croatia is in recession. We are actually saying that the roots, the causes of the recession are not only the consequences of the global financial crisis in the world but they are good work and the consequences of the system that we are building in Croatia. At this point, we're discussing changing the Tax on Profits Act. Members of the European Union shall have exclusive responsibility for the level of direct taxation, i.e. on taxes applicable to salaries and taxes applicable to profits. They also determine the rates of such taxes, savings and capital gains. Therefore, such a change is not in line with European Union legislation and we as a state are independent to regulate relations in this domain of tax policy. Our existing profit tax law determines a 20% tax rate and this is not a high rate compared to some other countries that tax profits. We also have certain reliefs that are applied as tax reliefs and reliefs for taxpayers in areas of special state care, exemptions for taxpayers in the city of Vukovar, reliefs for taxpayers in mountain-mounted areas, reliefs and exemptions for taxpayers in free zones, exemptions for taxpayers who are registered and perform exclusively research and development function. Then we have special incentives for investment and incentives for taxpayers established for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. In this proposal we propose actually interventions in the tax base in reductions and increases. Although we have a very high share of investment in the gross social product in the past, they are, in fact, in most of the public investment that has a long period of return and GDP growth rates are significantly affected by personal consumption. Unfavourable investment growth factors in this period and they will be tightened in 2009 is a slowdown of credit activity, an increase in interest on loans and increasingly unfavourable conditions of credit. Investment activity in Croatia depends largely on public investment and the private investment segment's contribution is low and should be further strengthened. That there is a slowdown in the investment cycle also shows information about the fall of construction works. Analysts are skeptical according to the GDP growth plan in 2008 and especially now in 2009 as seen from so far published statistics. For example, at the beginning of the year, we had a relatively satisfactory GDP growth rate of 4.3% in the first quarter so that it would fall to 3.4 in this previous quarter to 1.6% and some predict that the last quarter would end perhaps with a negative economic growth rate and that overall economic growth in 2008 would be even below 3%. We, when adopting the 2009 State budget, planned a 2% growth rate, however, and here we now have some adjustments at the beginning of the year. Some even say that we will be very pleased if we do not have a drop in economic growth. Croatia also has a low share of the working population in employees. According to data from the State Statistics Institute in 2007 in Croatia, there was a working-age population over 15 years of just over 3 million and 640 thousand of which an active million 760 and employed million and 563. The active employment rate was 48% and the employment rate itself was slightly less than 43% which is very low. The employment rate in the first quarter was lower even than in 2007, which was lower than in the second half of 2006. For the growth of production and security of state income and pension funds, we also need greater employment of a job-efficient population and it can only be ensured by the creation of jobs in the real sector. That we also have problems with industrial growth, which actually ensures real growth rates, we see from the fact that in 2008 we have a five-month decline in industrial production, and it is alarming that this decline has been reported continuously over the last three months of last year. In such a situation, certain economic measures, including tax policies, need to be reacted. The Croatian economy has been making more profit than losses in recent years. Thus, in 2007, it was HRK 36.7 billion, while losses were significantly smaller, just less than $12 billion. Based on such results, a dividend of 4.6 billion kuna or even 12.5% of profits was paid in 2008. The majority of the dividend paid refers to companies that are mostly foreign-owned and should be noted that in Croatia, tax on dividends is not paid, so such income is actually the lowest taxed because wages are taxed in the range of 15 to 45% and capital revenues from all income tax of only 20%. We have a worrying trend in the economy as well. For the first nine months of last year, our entrepreneurs achieved a gross profit drop of about 9% and the proportion of long-term assets investments in that period fell by almost 6%. The problems are getting sharper and in liquidity. Liquidity again becomes one of the main problems in the economy so that the latest data suggests that around 2,000 companies with a total amount of blocked funds of 702 million kuna are blocked and mainly relate to taxes, contributions and judicial solutions, with a significant increase in the number of outstanding liabilities. About 20,000 legal entities have outstanding liabilities of more than 14 billion kuna, with nearly 36,000 workers working in these companies. These are the problems that will be sharpened in the next period, and we actually need to take care of it and we must not go deaf on this condition. What do we suggest? We propose intervention in Articles 6 and 7 of the existing Tax on Profits Act. In a way that, in Article 6, paragraph 1 which speaks of the reduction of the tax base, the reduction of the base is increased by the reinvested profit, therefore, that part of the profit to be invested in investments and in retained profits. In other words, the part of the profits that will not be paid through dividends will be used for current liquidity in the company. Of course, if such a profit is paid in the coming years, it is necessary to pay the tax on it, so we suggest that in Article 3 which speaks of an increase in the tax base, the tax base for the retained profit paid from that period is increased. We have proposed that these amendments to the law enter into force on 1 January, counting on the law to be discussed before the adoption of the state budget for the current year. The government's view is that it of course rejects such a proposal, and in its opinion it also refers to all possible tax reliefs that we have so far. In fact, however, it does not completely reject the possibility of reducing the tax bases of entrepreneurs in this way. However, it is said to complicate the records and, in fact, the rule of a little tax administration problem. Which we cannot accept because we think that today in the era of such information equipment of certain institutions there can actually be no speech for certain records to actually be a problem for a particular institution. It is said that it is difficult to monitor the reinvested profit, i.e. it is difficult to monitor unpaid or retained profits. However, we believe that this is not so because both are recorded in business books and it is very easy to exercise such control. It is said that there would be a certain reduction in tax revenues on this basis, however, we are already witnesses, as I said in the previous part that we have a drop in investment, that we have a drop in income, and then, analoguely, the profit tax will be lower if entrepreneurs fall in gross profits. We know that the costs have increased significantly at the beginning of the year as far as energy is concerned and such negative weeks will actually be throughout this year. We believe that precisely these measures that will charge business costs on the one hand, and on the other hand reduce the tax audit, we can actually help economic operators to do better business and deliver better results at the time of recession, to keep jobs, possibly create new jobs, and thus actually profit both states and local communities because they will receive an adequate share of their business results through tax policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26068	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Ivica Mladneo, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Director of the Tax Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26069	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The government remains in its opinion, I just have to point out that the tax rate on profits is one of the smaller ones in Europe, that a large number of the reliefs that apply to the Tax on Profits is so effective that the rate below 19%. With this proposal not to pay tax profits on reinvested profits and to postpone payments, in fact, that tax profits are paid only when they are paid. However, there would be a smaller tax charge, so that for reinvested, how much to one third for two billion and 400 million there would be less tax revenue, and this way of paying to be paid when profits are paid. At first, there would also be a disturbance, especially with the application of changes to this, because we know it's only a delay in the payment that would still be charged at later times. And that would certainly be one two billion if not more. Here's how much, and as far as it goes, I'm here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26070	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The chairman of the committee, Honored Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26071	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 22nd session held on 9 December 2008 the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the SDP in the Croatian Assembly on 28 October 2008. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed on the basis of the provision of Article 65 of this Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the Law in question as a home working body. In the discussion on the Committee, the opinion supported the view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to support the law in question because tax reliefs, exemptions and incentives related to profit tax are prescribed among other things and specific regulations: the Law on areas of special state care, the Law on mountain and mountain areas, the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, the Law on Investment Encouragement, the Law on Free Zones, the Law on State Support for Education and Education, the Law on Scientific Activity in Higher Education. Those specific laws, which prescribe tax obligations, are in line with the acquis of the European Union and the European State aid system and prescribe a reduction of the profit tax rate below the required rate of 20%. In some cases, the profit tax rate is also 0% In addition to the above, there is also a reduction of the profit tax base in line with the Profit Tax Act, and the introduction of new reliefs that would reduce the base of the profit tax also affects the reduction of income from the profit tax in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia since the income tax is entirely the income of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia estimates that the State budget of the Republic of Croatia will reduce income from profit tax by around 2.4 billion kuna in the event of acceptance of the provisions of the proposed law. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority of votes, 7 votes for and 6 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion not to accept the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26072	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We'll have a club debate first. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26073	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Making it expensive, not making it the most expensive. That's why we sent this proposal to procedure. And what is the current situation in Croatia is best said by indicators. The economic activity is stagnating. Industrial production has fallen. In November alone, an industrial output drop of -3.5% was reported, not to mention that the economy suffered 2 billion kunas of direct damage due to the inadequate response to the gas crisis. Personal consumption has also fallen due to a fall in income. For the first time in the 6th month of last year, wages have fallen realistically in Croatia for the last time since '99. A year. Some traditional, low-profit industrial sectors such as textiles, leather and footwear are increasingly in a difficult position to the extent that their survival is threatened. It reduces demand and increases business costs, which ultimately causes and threatens workers' layoffs. The system's indifference is growing. Within a year, the number of blocked legal persons increased by 30% and the amount of outstanding liabilities by as much as 66%. The state is funded in the domestic sector and suppresses the possibility of funding private, private initiatives in the domestic sector, thus traumatising their position to the end. That is why we have proposed this law to send messages to the public, citizens, but not only as SDP, but as all representatives of the Croatian Parliament if you accept it. That the state cares about the economy, that the state cares about jobs and that the state cares about the people in this country. The law introducing the category of reinvested profit and which would not be taxed assumes three fundamental objectives. It is the first incentive to invest because we want to ensure this year that entrepreneurs invest without fear of profit tax. The second is a lower risk for investment, so investment will be able to invest with more detailed business plans due to lower risk. Finally, it will ensure the preservation of jobs, as well as local self-government. The income units of local self-government will have more due to income tax in their budgets. The answer to the global financial crisis and the structural crisis in Croatia. We have to ask ourselves what Europe is doing. Europe has offered a 200 billion-euro European economy rescue plan, with two key points: investing in consumption next year and encouraging smart investment such as investing in infrastructure and energy, such as preserving small businesses, such as encouraging structural reforms where they are not made, such as reduced VAT rates for labour intensive services, which we have also proposed, such as increased education for workers seeking a change of jobs. And what does the Croatian government do, what has the Croatian state done in the past? I'll just remind you that in this House and certain tax reliefs, which existed for taxpayers in areas of special state care, you've derogated. The messages on freezing or non-freezing of salaries sent a message to investors, we don't know what to do in fiscal policy, you don't have to come. Because they're planning a five to eight-year investment period. Who's going to pay 2 billion kuna for the gas crisis? And what hurts me the most and what affects me the most is only 2% more this year for the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in the year in which Europe separates 200 billion euros to save Europe's economic economy. And as the items in the budget stand, I'll read it to you now. For this year you predicted less for shipbuilding 25%, less than 100 million. To stimulate production, products, innovation and connection to science 20% less, 15 million kuna. To increase the competitiveness of the Croatian industry, as much as 30% less, 50 million kuna. For the restructuring and development of individual branches of industry, as much as 30% less. And lastly, and most dramaticly, subsidies to stimulate exports are as much as 60% less. These are items in the state budget, I didn't invent them, you can check them out. What's the SDP doing? We're in the process because we don't have time to wait, we have responsibility for this country, we've sent 15 laws, 10 decisions and duties. All together, 25 anti-recession proposals. I'm sure there'll be a lot more talk about savings. N0o, however, savings, rebalancing, more regular planning can prevent some things and can boost investment. Also, companies in majority state-owned property can save. The Government should also be in charge of reviewing management contracts and fees in the supervisory boards for companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and laying down priorities in public investment and investment in energy. Let me get this straight. What's Europe doing? The "European Commission Recovery Plan" weighs 200 billion euros to boost the economy. What's the SDP doing? 25 proposals, anti-recession proposals to save this country. What's HDZ doing against recession? Nothing. And in the economy, wrong, with a 0% increase for the economy. It's expensive to do, but it's the most expensive thing not to do. For the economy, for the citizens, for their families. And finally, I would ask that all the MPs in this House realize that Parliament should not be the place where problems are created but that there should be a place where problems are solved. That's why I invite you all to support our 25 anti-reaction proposals. This is one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26074	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26075	Thank you very much. With a series of inaccuracies that my colleague has presented, which we will deny during our performances, I will only have two key ones at this time. A colleague says HDZ against recession is doing nothing. HDZ has brought a budget against recession that still holds water. He's got a follow-up on that budget. If you didn't get paid for this month, I apologize to you, which still holds water. He's got a government commission, he's got a commission outside the government, experts who follow up on events and ad hoc react if necessary. And finally, he brought in a budget that restructured health care during the crisis year to dissipate the economy, to unload on the burden of the greatest social giving. It's health care. The second is incorrect that the SDP has brought 25 anti-recession annexes. If they're all contributions like these three, it's not anti-recession, it's recession contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26076	Thank you. We have a second correction to the incorrect quote of the esteemed representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26077	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct the quote. I've already been corrected by a colleague of Mr. Hebrang. But it is not true that the government is doing nothing against recession and that the SDP has proposed 25 recession laws. That's not true. For nine years, you have led the city of Zagreb, which you have practically brought down to 13 billion kuna. Gentlemen, these are your recession proposals and your recession law, that you have forced the citizens of the city of Zagreb into a long-term crisis and only the SDP knows the other niš.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26078	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It is next to the HDZ club, the distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26079	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In a package of economic measures, the SDP representative club also referred to the parliamentary procedure and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act. The amendments and additions to the Corporate Tax Act are proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP for the purpose of increasing economic investment in such a way as to exempt from taxation the profits of the current year invested in investments, i.e. retaining profits for trade purposes. At the same time, this amendment and the supplement increase the tax base for payment and retained profits from earlier periods paid as a dividend for which no profit tax had previously been paid. The Croatian economy really needs an increase in economic investment, but a systematic analysis is needed, which is why economic activities are in decline and what changes are necessary to launch entrepreneurship projects. This complex economic problem is not resolved by a unilateral economic measure or unilateral economic measures that also entail appropriate positive and negative economic effects. Any change in any segment of society, and in particular in a sensitive part of fiscal policy, also brings advantages and disadvantages. The amendment and addition of the Law on profit also highlights the advantages and expectations that would be achieved by these amendments and additions. But there is no analysis of the consequences of any such changes. Observations of the expected and expected effects from only one perspective can direct us to incomplete and sometimes wrong conclusions. Deep consideration of the problem requires a realistic assessment of the possibility of meeting the expectations set, but also a realistic assessment of the application of the proposed measures and implementation in practice, as well as a realistic assessment of the results of the envisaged effects. It is true that the applicant's claim that the implementation of these amendments and the addition of the Profit Act do not require additional funding, but the fact that the revenues of the state budget would be reduced by €2.4 billion is ignored. This reduced revenue from the state budget would result in the basis of the proposed reinvested profits, and further a reduction in the revenues of the state budget would result in the basis of the proposed changes in the retained profits. It should be pointed out that under the Law on Direct Taxes it was already envisaged that both parties and domestic, legal and natural persons do not pay profit tax per share, i.e. part of profits reinvested in order to increase or modernise production capacities both in their own and in other companies. This reduction of the corporate tax base according to that law did not produce the expected results because there were difficulties in implementation, which led to this system being more accurate since 1994, i.e. from 31.12.93. abandoned by the adoption of the Tax on Profit and the Tax on Income Act. It is undeniable that investments are one of the most important factors in economic growth. It is undeniable that the level of the profit tax rate is also among the decisive and stimulating factors of entrepreneurship activities. The rate of profit tax of 20% is one of the lowest in Europe and certainly one of the most stimulative rates for entrepreneurial activity. But for economic growth and investment, it's not a decisive profit rate. Among the decisive factors is the price of capital, the level of interest rates and, without the appropriate interest rates, it is impossible to expect economic investments. And all the countries of Europe and the world that have been found in times of crisis, which have been affected by the recession, are just using this most effective measure of reducing the price of capital, reducing the interest rates that allow economies and entrepreneurs to invest newly. These new investments in Croatia are indeed lagging behind, but it is not true that there are no economic and entrepreneurial projects in Croatia. They exist, there are hundreds of them. However, they stand because they cannot be financed at such a high interest rate. There is no or rare economic project that can be financed in the long term at an interest rate of 12, 13 or 14%. This is the basic reason why economic investments are missing and business activities are not developing, not profit tax rates. Due to all this, the HDZ Club does not support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Tax on Profits Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26080	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26081	Mr. Vice President, it is not true that the level of the profit tax rate in Croatia is one of the lowest in Europe, but is located somewhere in the middle of that scale, and the reduction of this rate, so this bill represents the only possibility of surviving the Croatian economy, and I believe that finally Minister Schuker realized that we are in a banana.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26082	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26083	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to the Taxation Act are proposed in order to increase economic investment in such a way as to exempt from taxation the profits of the current year invested in investments, i.e. crafts up to possible payments. We at the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill reinvested in profit, not taxing as one in a series of possible anti-recession measures. This bill was sent to the parliamentary procedure in October of last year, and only a few months later did we get the opportunity to discuss this legislative initiative. At the same time, just at that time in September 2008, when the whole world was talking about the coming crisis and recession, almost all government members assured us with messages that the coming crisis and recession were not our problem and that Croatia would be ready to welcome the coming crisis times. Even at the moment when it is quite clear that Croatia is practically in recession, the rhetoric of the executive government is still that the recession goes through the woods, and we do not, therefore, live with us. At a time when daily discussion of who will survive, and who will fail, how the state and citizens will survive the blow and with which victims, the Croatian government not only continues to suggest that there are no such serious concerns, the state finances are under control, VAT is being charged according to plan, but its responsibility for the adoption of any late anti-recession measures shifts to various informal instances that are being established. Meanwhile, workers are losing their jobs, and a number of companies are one step ahead of closure, and a handful of signals have warned us for years that sustainable economic growth cannot be achieved without strengthening the country's entrepreneurial capacity. Signals also came from the positioning of Croatia in world studies of competitiveness, entrepreneurship, the quality of the regulatory framework, corruption, but also domestic warnings, especially from the Croatian National Bank. Even if there were no such warnings, it was enough to listen to the same stories of the entrepreneurs' despair about the failed battles with administrative barriers, about the inability to get a job on the market fair or about the lack of individual labour market professions and to wonder why such situations become our economic evergreens? Is it possible we don't know how to solve them? Such evergreens have lost confidence in institutions from economic policy-holder institutions to institutions that protect the right to equal chances in the economic match. We are left with hope that from the silence that exists in the Banski dvori when it comes to anti-recessic measures, it will come to a solution within a short period of time. The economy has no time to wait because if it starts with concrete measures and actions, only after May local elections, it could be too late for many jobs. One of these measures is exactly the one we're discussing today, which is that the reinvested profit is untaxable. The State must immediately stop the untaxable dividend payment and encourage reinvestment in production, and must also condition it to its own partners, regardless of who it is. Banks that have been paying billions through dividends for many years now, if they still want the support of this country, then they must also take responsibility for this moment of crisis combined normally with the state, rather than continue to insist on an extra profit on the back of citizens of this country. In this context, we support the SDP Club's initiative because it is precisely the state that has made it possible by extracting profits through dividends to continue this barren policy of bread and games, and as a rule to foreign partners in the possession of substantial non-taxable dividends. In addition to this measure, to get out of the structural economic crisis and recession, we in the HNS are constantly offering a whole series of measures that should have already been implemented. Some are, first and foremost, wage and consumption growth within the framework of economic growth and productivity growth. The second is to stop unreasonable costs like building a Pelje Bridge. It is also necessary to stop the mass unnecessary employment of relatives and friends in public institutions and companies, such as HAC, which has 70% more employees than the European average per kilometre of the highway at this time. The state must immediately stop paying dividends and encourage reinvestment in production, and it must also condition its own partners. HBOR must be a key mechanism for supporting production and exports with an emphasis on tourism. The same mechanism must also be designed for the incentive housing programme. Part of the burden should be transferred to the rich in Croatia by the urgent adoption of the Property Tax Act. In addition to these measures, a package of social measures is necessary for those who, unfortunately, will stay on the road or will not receive wages for their work. The government should urgently assume and honour the obligation to pay debts within 90 days. We believe that the law should define the right to charge companies and suppliers in relation to the state and public enterprises. A state that does not respect its own laws is not a state. And finally, we want to tell everyone again, this is not the time to prove who's smarter, but it's time to show if we're all so smart together to get out of this crisis and recession.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26084	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26085	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Now, unlike the Contribution Act, which the SDP Club proposes to reduce 9 billion kuna, means health care that the IDS will not support, this IDS law will absolutely support because this is about reinvesting the profits achieved. In 2009, I'd hate to, but I'm afraid it's going to be the year of an economic, social, monetary, financial breakdown. I'm even, well, that's why I'm not afraid, but I'm almost convinced that the people of this government will enter the memory of Croatian citizens like those who will enjoy being the most popular government. All parameters are at this point in this country are catastrophic. Growth in gross social product not to be 2%, God forbid it's what it was in 2008 we have a drop in employment. We don't even give people to work on Sundays, where they could come true. The drop in purchasing power, no investment, VAT revenues drop, imports fall, exports fall, shipbuilding recovery costs rise, no matter what subsidies are less. We have such a situation that since 2000 we have given more money to shipbuilding here than the shipyards have achieved revenues by selling ships. That clearly doesn't apply to "The Oilman." Loans, interest growth, foreign investment, no income, no privatisation, no foreign credit, no foreign credit, no foreign credit, no foreign credit, no cash flow, no foreign credit, no foreign investment, no income, no credit, no foreign credit, no foreign currency, no foreign currency, no foreign currency, no foreign currency, no foreign investment at this time over 19 billion kuna. An external debt that he exceeded $39 billion or $50 billion. In 2009 alone, the state of Croatia will need to return or secure 11.2 billion euros. Like that. By 31st, 2.5 billion euros should be paid back, 2.7 billion euros in the second quarter, etc. to 11.2 billion euros. The survival of this country depends not on whether we will secure foreign exchanges and whether we will be able to pay all these obligations, but whether we will be able to extend this great debt. In this year, it will begin to weaken the position of the Croatian National Bank. At this stage they have saved we can tell the banks, but with these one billion euros that the Croatian National Bank will write off or fire to the business banks in 2009 will certainly not be able to secure a stable exchange rate. Although we must ask ourselves whether this solid exchange rate of kuna was one of the reasons for so little exports and the situation in which the state of Croatia is on today. But today when our citizens are over-indebted, if I'm not mistaken for some 123 billion kunas to domestic banks, plus an economy of 80 billion kunas, not counting external debt, clearly a stable kuna is the key to the survival of our citizens. Mother Bank, this is the forecast of the International Monetary Fund due to the decline in the currencies of the Eastern European countries even think about withdrawing money from their banks, I don't know in us neighbouring countries. They just don't want to borrow them anymore. Whether Croatia is in that sacrifice remains to be seen. But the fact is, even the kuna is simply weak. In 2008 from August to January, the pound against the euro is 13% weak, Sweden's 14% crown, which is why we do not have tourists from Sweden. Norway's crown 17% due to the fall in oil prices, Hungary's forint 17.5%, the Czech crown 13%, Slovenia saved itself because of the euro, Croatia's kuna somewhere around 4%. The state, and that's what I was saying when I adopted the 2009 budget in front of the economy, will de facto withdraw all the money from our business banks. And that's exactly what's going on today. Croatia will not avoid after local elections of budget rebalancing. The question of how much can it be calculated that this budget will go down, maybe 5, maybe 10%. I'm afraid at the end of the year we won't even avoid the IMF intervention. I want Croatia to believe that, it will not affect social discontent. Why won't they? For the year in which we will be constantly in elections, local or presidential, but the question is raised, which is afterwards. What are we doing? We dare say from 2000 to 2009, we're running politics, we're not going to do anything. We were absolutely against everything and LNG and the "Adria" and golf companies, and hotels, and I don't know industry etc. We could attract between 4.5 billion euros in this period, create 50 thousand jobs, and today there is no more money, there is no investment, no one is willing to invest in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that today is a priority to save the kuna, and to help the economy, how, as far as possible within the budget, I will say it a little later and make a breakthrough of claims among business entities, a deadline of VAT from 30 days to 45 days, not to touch clear wages. In one word, let me say this for this speaker to force the state of Croatia to finally be gentlemen who are allowed to work in this country. And when we talk about the extremisation of Croatia, then I'll tell you that today Istria has 7 times more exports than in the '90s, no matter what I expect in this year's year to lose between 2.5, to 3,000 jobs. But I do know that the Istrian companies of the state have not won for their business programme a single kuna. In fact, Istrian companies via "Olinik" or "Olinik of Sailing" save one "Third May", before that "Viktor Lenac" and not to list any further. That same shipbuilding that only this year is written out 4.5 last pardon, and this one's going to be so much more. When it comes to the "Olinik" of Istrian shipyards, these shipyards from the state won't get a single kuna. That's what I'm saying about this country being trained. And that's why Istra gentlemen has more jobs today than the '90s. And less unemployment than in 1990. Then the question arises who in these circumstances will bear the greatest burden of this crisis? Tourism, of course, will be hit. Maybe we'll get numbers like last year, they're talking minus 300 thousand guests who might be here. It's about 2 million and 100 thousand overnights, it won't be so tragic. But the out-of-board consumption will certainly be 15, 20 if not more than one percent lower than it was in 2008. And in 2008, it was so much smaller than in 2007. The exporters are on strike. I know, I'm watching it. About one of the Cimos who's exporting $100 million. So they order 20, 30, 40 percent less. So much will be their income at the end of next year less. But these companies will be able to get to the exchange and they will be able to pay their loans. And what's the domestic industry doing? I claim that this year's domestic industry will simply be on its knees. Well, the wood industry only fired about 4,000 workers at the 11th, 12th month. The domestic industry will run out of loans, run out of foreign exchanges, and will normally be threatened by one general indifference. And what do we do, gentlemen? How are we playing? How do we lead this country? Well, we spent three billion kuna on these six handball halls. And do you know how much this will ultimately cost Croatia to pay for the loan or the rent? Over 7 billion kuna. For example, Arena Zagreb cost 644 million kuna. For 28 years, the government and the city of Zagreb each in one half pay the rent of the hall and will ultimately amount to 1 billion 820 million kuna, 2.86% more. On this example, the public private partnership simply fell apart and today we still have to listen to new promises about some new halls, new handball homes. Well, that's unreal, gentlemen, so it's an exaggeration at a time when this country is financially falling apart. I beg you, don't produce the crisis in this way, let's not play by the existence of this nation and the existence of this country. 2010 will be the year I'd say one naked survival. Well he said just before Mr. Maric that this law on getting heavy is somewhere around 2, 3 to 2.5 billion kuna. I think it might be possible to find 2.3. 2.5 billion kuna. I doubt it is possible to find in the budget far more money than that amount mentioned. By listing the 2007 Budget Review, I saw that the state, the county, the City of Zagreb, local self-government achieved budget revenues of around 145 billion kuna. How much was allocated to capital investments in that capacity? All nine billion kunas. Half, so 4.5 to 5 billion refers to the state, the circus is so much about the City of Zagreb, 20 counties plus what I know how many there are 520, 530 which municipalities, which cities. I'm even afraid that at the end of the year we'll all be out of pay, maybe pensioners without a pension. And that should be avoided. How is that supposed to be avoided? A clear fight for every job and struggle to help the economy. Today it may be more primary as much as anyone will say socially not to help the economy but to the citizen. Why? Because if he doesn't have jobs, then someone won't get paid and then he won't be able to just settle his loans and all his other obligations. How could this be the easiest way to help the economy? I will say that when the Tax Act comes on the agenda on an additional value that VAT from 30 days of payment extends to 60 days, that importers who have to pay VAT in eight days to do so for them 60 days. Who today is able to make sure the VAT pays within 30 days, so they're almost gone. And then we wonder why these budget revenues are so much smaller this year than they were last year. So in 2009, however many years of personal and business bankruptcy it will also be years of struggle for naked survival. I will also quote Kennedy on this occasion who on one occasion at his inauguration said about: "Don't ask you Americans just what America can do for you, ask yourself what you can do for America.". Perhaps we should send a message "Don't just ask the state to do something for you, ask yourself what you are willing to do for this country as you were prepared to do 91, 92, 93, 94, or 95 while the Homeland War lasted.". Enough throwing away money for some halls and stuff. It's not normal, I said, on one ship, that the state of the shipyard gives me more than it does by selling the ship. And here, I'll finish it. Let's sterling Croatia, start working, solidize and try to fight for such unity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26086	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26087	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm actually wondering what the role of Parliament's representative is when he says and predicts here that we are and this year there will be an economic breakdown in Croatia. It's a lie. None of us here are reducing the difficult conditions of economic business, but to say, to prejudge the fact and to say this year's economic breakdown is something that is absolutely out of each and every healthy mind with all the difficulties we have. Furthermore, when we speak and what is the Trianisation of Croatia, looking positively, it is absolutely inappropriate for you to give lessons to Croatia in this way. In Zapresić this year we invest 3 billion kuna investments but we do not think that any part of Beautiful ours from the one in the hill-mount or any other segment where such conditions are not possible for me to salt their brains and to... way of measuring behavior. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are therefore tasked with creating equal conditions for the development of work, not at the expense of close politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26088	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26089	Thank you very much. In his disastrous speech, counterpart Cain said a series of false things. One of them is, he says, "This government will enter memory," he thinks of the memory of "citizens as the most unpopular.". That's not true. You have a forecast from the European Commission if you believe it if it means something to you that the crisis will affect the gross domestic product of certain countries Croatia stands best in the region and best in Europe because it foresees a zero rate. And listen to Germany -2,3, France -2, Great Britain -2,8, let's not talk any further. As far as Croatian istrianisation, our beautiful Istria was lucky that it had no Serbian aggression, so it is an advanced economic one, it does not have to pay a great price for war but it is not true that we should regionalise Croatia in this way. Because then I'm gonna say this is how Istria doesn't have enough basements, so let's make it worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26090	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26091	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Cain has presented a number of incorrect allegations but also one quote if we trianise Croatia that Croatia will live better. Unfortunately, Mr. Caine, I'd love to, but Istria doesn't live any better than other parts of Croatia, and I live in the city of Pula where you've been building sewers for 18 years and you're just spending money, you haven't even come out of the worst part. And what's your traffic route? How do you feel when you get off the Istrian y, you're not one... done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, Croatia lives as other parts, and it istrianisation, when we talk about the political part, has done enormous damage to Croatia's Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26092	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26093	Well, my colleague... This debate actually led to the top of a number of catastrophic experts in this House. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, it is incorrect that he said that Croatia is financially falling apart, I will remind him, and he was listening about the 2009 budget where the secessions for social needs, socially sensitive groups have been increased. And now let me not mention it, because I could count it here for one three minutes, and I don't have time to apply the Minimum Salary Act, almost now it's going to increase somewhere now with a new... 500 kuna pays. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That basic for employees' salaries in... 6% increase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That the funds to help socio-sensitive groups rose from 2.7 billion to 2.9 billion. And now I could add a whole series of these social measures that are defined in the budget, so I don't see where he sees Croatia's financial collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26094	Thank you. And at the end of the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so it would probably take us all afternoon to correct all the incorrect allegations of Mr. Cain, but here's just a review of the incorrect assumption that the state's financial breakdown is not correct. The budget was adopted for 2009 and it is normal to also adopt budget rebalances. The government also runs a stable, together with the Croatian National Bank, monetary policy, we run a quality fiscal policy. Mr. Cain may wish for the financial breakdown of the state, as well as all these cataclysmic predictions, but it is not correct in such a way to intimidate Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26096	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. [[I don't want no!]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26097	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which states that if a representative reports to request a word, corrects the incorrect assumption must be limited to the correction, otherwise the chairman will take away his word. I ask you to in that sense and act, because a couple of epithets got Mr. Cain, from Mr. Kunst, a disasterer, from Mr. Turk, what kind of agent, and that's not correcting the incorrect allegations, it's epithets, you had to warn them there, yes, well you can't do that, it's not a quote. So, please, I'm begging you, the Rules of Procedure have been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26098	Your Honor! Your Honor, the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed, unfortunately, it has been noted that some things are being used here besides the Rules of Procedure, including you and all others. [[Intruder: They learned up, that's good!]] So please, you can't get a word like this, and you can't delude with me, you can just ask for an institution or a breach of the Rules of Procedure and nothing else. Therefore, no injured Rules of Procedure and I think that, in that sense, I agree but then that everyone is sticking to that way of working. Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. On behalf of the club do you want to speak? ... You can't say anything, unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure won't allow you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So don't use the breach of the Rules of Procedure, if it isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and it isn't, please! There you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26100	... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26101	I apologize. Now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. ... No, no, but I'll read it to you correctly, he says, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] must be limited to the correction, otherwise the Proposer, or Chairman.../... [[/Intruder: What article are you talking about?]] If someone's giving an epithet to another MP.../The speaker shut down, then reactivated./... it's incorrect...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26102	Your Honor, the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed, and you are wrong, and I ask you not to do so anymore, so that you do not abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's Mrs. Zgrebec's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26103	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to say a few sentences after the clubs have finished their opening statements. At the beginning, I would like to say that my colleague Hebrang that achieving a zero growth rate for Croatia is not positive. Croatia needs far more growth rates than many countries in Europe, Croatia is destroyed in the war, has huge consequences in economic terms in the war. Unfortunately, during this entire period of war, Croatia had to build from the state budget to the greatest extent what was destroyed by war, it had to actually pay the high cost of transition to us, and we must not meet the zero rate, regardless of what we are, when in such a situation the whole world is in. I'd like to say that we actually wanted to get two goals by amending profit tax laws like this. The first is to achieve higher investment that will be cheaper because the profit that will go into the current year on investment will not be paid 20% of the profit tax. This means that entrepreneurs will be helped in cheaper investment, retaining employment and providing new regular jobs, which is of invaluable importance to Croatia. The second goal that would be achieved by such an amendment to the law is that unless it pays the dividend in the current year, so keep the profit, delay the payment of the tax, increase its current liquidity in that year. This means that they will not have to engage in any credit assets in that amount, they will not pay the price of capital, but will have lower operating costs. Why does it matter? This is important in order to maintain employment, it is important to maintain lower operating costs, to increase production. We have an increasingly negative situation in foreign trade. In the last year, we achieved a deficit in external trade of more than 10 billion euros, we have the lowest rate of coverage of exports since we monitor external trade and it has stopped somewhere at only 45%, which is why we have to run a different industrial policy, that we have to increase industrial production in order to retain jobs on the one hand, and that one part of our own production can resuscitate imports. I thank the clubs that supported our bill, but I would only like to take a few more sentences to refer to the presentation of representatives of the HDZ Club. In fact, we are pleased that you too at the HDZ Club realize that certain measures need to be taken to increase investment in the real sector in Croatia. However, the time for deep analysis of investment and business problems has actually passed. We're five minutes behind 12. However, I want to believe and believe in the SDP club, and we want to believe that the government did such an analysis. The Prime Minister is announcing a package of anti-recession measures. True God, he says he won't tell us what these measures are, but we expect him to say in the coming days what measures the Government takes in the time ahead will take to please entrepreneurs, but also to facilitate the standard of living for our citizens. We have not ignored the reduction of income in the state budget, however, if you strengthen the tax press or if in such situations economically such as today in Croatia and which will welcome us in the near future, then practically such a tax press acts in a way that reduces tax revenues. If we're going to lose our jobs, if we're going to have economic activity, there's going to be less income than profit tax. They may be smaller in a shorter period at the moment, but they provide us with a perspective and a long-term increase in such revenues. Perhaps now is the time to do an analysis at which level it is necessary to introduce taxes on those incomes that are not taxed in Croatia today. Perhaps this is the time to make an analysis, which means that entrepreneurs who pay dividends, who make a few dozen million incomes in one current year, do not pay a single dime of the money invested. While our citizen who makes the average salary must pay taxes, at the same time that average salary does not meet the minimum cost of his family. Reductions in interest rates are needed, your representative said. We agree with that. But why are the HBORs then provided in the 2009 budget with minimal funds? In the 17 years of the existence of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we managed to pay out of 7 billion laws of established capital only 4 billion and 80 million kuna. HBOR, which today is the institution that is the best escort of our economies in terms of development, as regards regional development, and in terms of helping entrepreneurs and in situations where there is no or no security of the underlying capital established by law. Why do not the funds for the share of loans and interest subsidies increase to HBORU? Why the 2009 budget, when we know what the situation in the banking sector is, is secured for all purposes, from the core capital, the share in loans, interest subsidies, only 490 million kuna. These are issues which should be analysed and answered to the budget rebalance. The Croatian National Bank has made a decision these days to release a share of foreign reserves of 840m euros. From the information we could read, the entire amount will be realised by the state. They will again force entrepreneurs to go to the foreign market, but they will no longer be in debt outside Croatia. That's the situation. At the moment the Croatian state started borrowing on the domestic market, it forced our entrepreneurs to work outside. At that moment, we have a change in the structure of external debt. The state stagnates, entrepreneurs and banks had to go to the foreign financial market, the money market. So these are issues that should be opened wide discussion, without large analysis and in the nearest period, go to budget rebalances and analyse the expenditure side of the budget in a way that provides additional resources to the economy and the social needs of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26104	Thank you. And now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26105	Thank you very much. My colleague, you have incorrectly said, I must tell you that the Republic of Croatia is not satisfied with 0% of the increase. That's not what I said. I was quoting the European Commission's report. If you want to hear my opinion, I'm sure that at the end of the year, gross domestic product will be positive, despite the fact that this budget has 10% of the result of the war, which means social and economic giving. Secondly, it's not true that time, which I disagree with, I don't think it's true that they're taxing, you said, some big entrepreneurs. And what if these engines develop just in a time of crisis because of the tax hikes start firing?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26106	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct the incorrect quote of a colleague who said that we too at the HDZ Club see that certain measures should be taken. It is not true that we see it, but that we are making certain measures. The first measure was to adopt a budget with a minimum deficit for 2009 followed by all other activities stemming from the budget. Also, when you talk about tax reliefs in the areas of the victims in the Homeland War, I will remind you of a whole series of tax reliefs here listed in the government's explanation. And the biggest tax relief since the rule of the SDP in the beginning of this century was that cities and municipalities were freed from the full return of taxes to citizens, while during the rule of the SDP a complete return of taxes went from city and municipal registers. ... In a complete blockade. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is the biggest tax relief in the areas affected by the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26108	Thank you. Dear Representative Boris Kunst, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26109	counterpart Zgrebec said Croatia was satisfied with the zero growth rate of the gross social product. I don't think there is room for such a cynical finding, because you are certainly aware of it and you must admit that Croatia is in some way showered by this tsunami of the global and European crisis and that Croatia is not letting the island out of everything but is part of this global, global crisis. I'm sure no one's satisfied with that, and they won't be happy. The conversation was just about being one of the options. But I don't think there's any need to talk about it that much. Well, you were in power back then. You were in the position of this law that you are now proposing to bring and change, and I think that this, clearly, is a nice show for broad folk masses. But let's not be cynical.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26110	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26111	Dear colleague Zgrebec said in her presentation if you strengthen the tax press. That's not true thinking that the government is likely to increase tax pressure. That's not true. In the entire term since HDZ and its coalition partners took responsibility for managing this country, no new tax has been introduced nor have existing taxes raised rates. Even more so, they have been reduced both for entrepreneurs and for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Please use accurate and accurate data in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26112	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also refer to what Mr. Representative Roncevic said. In fact, Zgrebec said that there is, in fact, a strengthening of the tax press which is not true, since we are talking today about amendments and additions to the Tax on Profits Act, I would, as a fact, say the things they wrote, which is that the 20% profit tax rate is among the lowest profit rates, that the share of investments in Croatia's gross domestic product is about 31% and among the highest in the region and that the Croatian economy has been making more profit than losses for several years. So these are the facts they wrote themselves. So there's no strengthening of the tax press.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26114	We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26115	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Mladneo, colleagues and fellow MPs. The fact is that Croatia is in recession and that we must be able to deal with the situation. As we have spoken in recent days, the debate finally came on the Parliament's agenda on what concerns Croatian citizens the most and what should be the greatest concern of the Croatian government, i.e. that the Croatian government finally offers some measures to show the Croatian public that it can lead in these times of crisis. Since these measures are not available, the Croatian government is still among the last to make no proposal, after all European countries present their anti-resion programmes, proposals and visions. The SDP has offered 25 measures to show the Croatian public that there are solutions to the situation in which Croatia is located. And what kind of situation is this, i.e. what is the specific situation since this law is the one that speaks how we want to help the Croatian economy is told by statistical indicators. Economic growth rates are lower than ever. Last year, the third quarter ended with a growth of 1.6%, which is the lowest economic growth in the third quarter for many years. We believe that the last quarter will even be negative. These are sufficient indicators that Croatia is already in recession. And what are the reasons for this recession above all, of course, that the impact also has the economic crisis that is happening in the world, but we can't find all the reasons just that. I think it is one of the fundamental reasons and the poor fiscal policy that the Croatian government has been leading for the past five years and the fiscal policy with which the Croatian government has not prepared us for this crisis year. That this fiscal policy is bad is seen by the fact that at the beginning of the year it was an extremely bad tax charge and that the Tax Administration recorded a lower charge than in recent years. And what happens in these situations? It is happening that Croatia is turning to the domestic capital market and is taking money from Croatian businessmen who are needed to carry out their economic activity. I wouldn't say and I wouldn't open a story like part of the HDZ Representatives' Club, but also the government's representative here said it takes 2.4 billion kuna from the state budget. No, this law aims to help the Croatian economy and entrepreneurs in this crisis year to achieve at least the same level of economic, or gross social product from last year, not to enter the recession. Otherwise, there's no optimism, and I think it's very realistic that there won't be any of these zero percent of what Mr. Hebrang mentioned earlier, but that next year we'll end up in a minus. And what other countries are doing, the European Union, as counterpart Bernardic said a 200 billion-euro programme to help the economy. What's America doing? Many of you mention that it all started in America, and it seems to me that the Croatian government is doing nothing about it, waiting for Obama to save Croatia. Obama posted a $800 billion programme a few days ago to help the American economy. And what programme did the Croatian Government send to the Croatian Parliament, how many billion kunas help the Croatian economy? The answer is zero, nothing. And therefore, this law as the first of these 25 measures that we have referred to in the parliamentary procedure is not a law on how to take out of the budget of 2.4 billion kuna, but a law on how to help the Croatian economy with the initial 2.4 billion kuna to maintain at least the same level of gross social product as it was last year. And if the indicators are bad, it says that already in recent months last year, indicators are especially when we talk about investment, construction investments are down 11%. That the indicators are bad talk and you can tell by the number of employees. At the end of last year at the 10th month, 5,200 people lost their jobs. And that is why we consider it necessary to take such measures, to help the Croatian economy with such bill proposals in terms of maintaining economic investment and creating new jobs in the sense that those people who will remain unemployed next year have a job to do. And for this reason, I must say that, both this law and the 25 laws, which is necessary for the responsible people sitting in this Croatian Assembly to support, here is when eventually the Croatian Government has not made a proposal whether there is any plan and any idea of getting out of this situation where Croatia is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26116	Thank you. I shall first inform you that at 12 hours and 1 minute, Article 207(2) shall comply with paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure have expired time to enter into the debate for 10 minutes. Now, let's go first to a few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, she is a respected representative of Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26117	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not the exact quote of Mr. Maras when he said the Government of the Republic of Croatia had not prepared, that it had not prepared itself for the crisis. Here, yesterday we had the opportunity to read that the experts of the Reifeisen Bank pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thanks to well-leaded monetary policy, avoided the spilling of the global crisis. But the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also a lowering budget deficit, so fiscal policy has also contributed to financial stability and no foreign debt is still needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26118	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is not true, colleague Maras, that you are with these measures, which you have stated 25, how many you count and these proposals, in fact, by a set of draft laws that you have referred to in the Croatian Parliament that you want to help the businessmen in these times. That's not true. Look, the biggest subject and economic and financial is the City of Zagreb. So cancel the 18% cut that is the largest in Croatia. Cancel it in the City of Zagreb, so it will help the economics, but also the citizens of the City of Zagreb. Not to mention, as far as communal donations are concerned, the largest in Croatia is 50% of which are of no use.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26120	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Short, two corrections. It's a poorly-run fiscal policy, an explanation of a bad tax charge. Tax collection is not a fiscal policy, but only one of the segments of the overall conduct of fiscal policy. And secondly, 2.4 billion of the deficit foreseen by the introduction of this tax is definitely carrying a budget hole this year. Welcoming any good proposal that opens up new jobs, this year all new investment and reinvestments will yield results in the next year or in 2 or 3 years because we know how the investment cycle is going to run when someone proposes 2.4 million reductions, it must find a way where in this current year 2.4 billion kuna will be found from the revenue side to balance the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26122	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Same about the facing thesis. This proposal does not take 2.4 billion out of the state budget, but this proposal gives 2.4 billion to the economy. That's not true. In the budget, there is a deficit of 2.4 billion kuna. There's not a single letter in this proposal that's a lack of peace. Only this year. If all the other 25 bills of law and other documents proposed by the SDP were like this, then our country would actually be in a crisis that it would never get out of again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26124	Thank you. And now we have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26125	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you have also mentioned a slowdown in the construction sector. This should certainly be our concern and Croatia's unpreparedness for the possible crisis, and that is why we have sent this proposal. We did not refer this proposal to the government to preserve, i.e. to encourage even more jobs than unfortunately to preserve existing jobs. And 60% of the economy is achieved in the City of Zagreb and 60% of the City of Zagreb and social rights is transferred directly to different parts of Croatia and it is therefore important that Croatia enters the story prepared. And we can't, I agree with you, wait for Obama to solve Croatian problems. Croatia's problems must be solved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this House and therefore we have sent a proposal to encourage investments in this year, not to tax the reinvested profits because the state is suppressing capital, meaning the possibility of borrowing the private sector reduces the current liquidity. And that's why we're proposing to keep some of the profits to just increase the current liquidity for investments this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26126	Thank you. I didn't see the answer. There isn't. Let's move on then. Replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26127	Thank you. Well, I'm kind of startled by the fact that the representatives of the ruling party, and I don't think the government is suffering much at all, not just criticism or trying to help. Just anyone from the opposition said anything, that's wrong. Well, my dear friends, it reminds me of a situation where a patient dies, and smart people argue whether it's a good view from that hospital room. There's some people here trying to fight, not to say to beat up empty straw whether we're in recession or not. We did, and everybody knows that except for some people who think there's no recession when they say she's gone. It's a really weird situation, here's Dalmatia where I come from. It wasn't all about what's being published today in a much worse situation. When the coalition power that you like to mention so much, call out, it looks like you're all walking backwards, looking back, and as you'd like to go forward. You see, when that power came, then the growth was -1, so it went up to +5.7%. Now it looks like this power wants to go back to where it was when the coalition government took over. I'll talk, I'll talk, dear lady and government, you mentioned monetary policy here. The government didn't run monetary policy and it's fortunate she didn't run it, so it's a good and healthy area. And by the way, let's do something so the Customs Administration can charge 3.5 billion kuna that she didn't charge, which she didn't charge and explain why she didn't charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26128	Your Honor, you didn't even refer to the line. ... I'm sorry you didn't even refer to the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I let you talk. But please stick to the Rules of Procedure, we brought it ourselves. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Jurjevic noticed that this government would return Croatia for the first time in '99. to negative economic growth. And one more thing that matters. So this assistance is 2.5 billion kuna for the Croatian economy, i.e. 2.4 billion kuna. It's not just the cost of the state budget. Well, I guess some of that money will go back to the state budget through VAT if it invests, through the salaries of people who will be employed through these investments. So it's hard to look at the budget as just a statistical situation, something we're giving, and nothing's going to come back. Well, of course, out of those 2.5 billion kunas, a large portion will return to the budget only through other items. So don't say it's a budget deficit. No, that's helping the Croatian economy this year when they need it most.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26130	Thank you. And let's move on with the individual debate, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26131	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I want to say that I am truly sorry that the debate on this proposal has turned into a divorce that my colleague Cain has made a significant contribution, because he has come from the breadth. I thought he'd come to Ustasha and Partisans when it comes to this bill. And then the corrections came. There will probably be a correction after my debate because you can correct the allegations from the proposal as much as you want, but one fact will remain. It will remain a fact that cannot change the situation that in crisis situations the economy and those profit-making economies should not pay the profit tax they leave in the company or reinvest. You can't correct the fact that the economy is in crisis and that it needs to be helped. Whether this assistance will be by changing the tax system or direct donations from the state budget, it may be the subject of discussion. But now we have one of the proposals that says that by changing the tax system we can help part of the economy. I was not surprised by the position of the government that said it did not accept this proposal, as it would be a reduction in the state budget by nearly 2.5 billion. I heard from Deputy Prime Minister Polancec the other night who said that those anti-crisis measures began to prepare in 2007. A year before the crisis in America started. Although it was probably a lapus or a failure. And secondly, I would like to point out that the debate in both parliament and government, on the exemption of the income tax from the part that is being reinvested or kept in the company for 10 years, has been conducted four times since there was no financial economic crisis. So, when the situation in the economy was, I would say stable, so there were ideas and suggestions that this part of the gain of the state would not be taxed. The economic crisis is just a new argument and a moment in which we should consider the position of those entrepreneurs who say something like this. We made a profit, because we did good business, we were able, we were skilled, we caught something on the market in time. And I want to invest in building new objects or machines. We have to pay the land, we have to pay the municipal contributions, we have to pay the water contributions, we have to pay whatever we need, and that same profit of the state... He's taxing it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that you have all heard these remarks especially from developing entrepreneurs, who are successful, and in particular now on the European Union market, who have warned before this crisis of a strange position that the money they invest in new jobs, new technology, new production plants must first pay 20% and get to the country itself. This proposal also contains two possible approaches. It's a reinvested profit, so the profits are invested, and the second one's retained. So if the government believes that this retained profit should not be tax-free because it can be done with anything, then the different answer must be to that reinvested profit. So what is really invested in new jobs, new technology, new machines, winning a new market, or we want these now capable entrepreneurs who make profits to become in losses and problems because at this point we don't understand how important it is that we free them to withdraw further development and that the state intervenes financially in those who cannot directly help with tax policy or by changing tax policy. I would accept the government's argument that it consists of only one sentence, that it has or that it has spent, has prepared, has decided to adopt and implement a direct aid package to the economy and that this law is therefore not necessary. But such a program, a package of measures or a move, at least I didn't see or hear it. And why in this debate, therefore, which is a purely tax policy issue that has direct consequences for that part of the economy that is successful, we bring to party or political bickering. How is it that no one has referred to themselves from those who attack the suggestions of entrepreneurs? What do entrepreneurs who earn profits back two, three years think of a move like this? We heard the opinion of the Finns, he says we'd be short 2 billion 400 if we were right, there'd be less income. But now if the government has a package of measures that will invest directly in the economy, it will be the same money. Only redistribution will be obvious by some other criteria, by some other standards, so I'm afraid that just such measures will go to those where there will be no effects like those who have already proven they are capable, because they have achieved profit and can be bearers of further development. Whether in particular activities, branches or regional approaches. So if we already have legitimate entrepreneurs like that, we have to have them by the name, last name, address and activity that deals further and stimulate them to open or retain existing and create new jobs. It is likely that this debate will be about the other proposals of the law from the contributions and on and then we will be corrected by midnight to separate and give entrepreneurs a message that. You will pay up to the last cut of the profit tax you make because the state needs money and at the same time we call on those who can, who don't even need bank credit funds to invest to further develop, we will take 20% of the profit tax even though not permanently. Why could it not be agreed that this is a temporary measure that will last two years precisely in this situation where we are today economic? Have some other countries not made such moves? Has this not already been considered as one of the really possible measures where the state can help in this way directly? If the loss in the budget is a reduction in the tax then the loss of direct State intervention was through HABOR through any other financial institution. But what makes this proposal possible is that money remains for those companies that have earned profits, so proven capable, which do not need another kind of intervention and help. Wouldn't the adoption of this proposal make it less pressure on credit funds in domestic banks? Maybe so. So it would also affect the movement of interest or credit conditions. One answer or counter-response, the only countermeasure I can accept on this proposal is the concrete reference of those 2 billion 400 governments plan to invest in the economy in a way: so let's hear how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26132	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First is Honorable Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26133	Thank you very much. The incorrect assumption is that entrepreneurs are not in a position to refer to what they think because their representatives are in direct contact at bilateral level with government representatives. Their representatives take part in this economic council, their representatives co-operate with the Economic Institute to develop a package of measures that is being prepared regarding this recession that we call it. So that's incorrect. So, through their representatives, they're in contact. Of course not everyone is in contact directly but they have their representatives, their associations, who contact the government, executive authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26134	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, I have to correct the incorrect quote that the state is sending to the businesses, "You're going to pay to the last June because the state needs money.". So I think it's really unnecessary to heat up something that's not there because the profit tax is paid in accordance with the law, which means gentlemen entrepreneurs don't respect the law. And we know very well, if the companies are in the difficulties you're talking about, then there's no profit tax. So, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26136	Thank you. And now we have three replicas. First is the distinguished representative Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26137	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, you spoke for the sake of this law, for the sake of the economy, and you spoke for the benefit of this discharge because of the fact that it is economically in crisis or that there is an economic crisis. I think you've ignored one aspect that's important to highlight and that's why our economy is in crisis. The fact is that there is a global financial crisis, but it is also a fact that the tax paid by the economy today is because in previous periods there have been neglected economic development and the investment of gross social product growth in this development and in some key national projects, the newly created value for which it has been working bloodyly in the economy has been spent on some relatively non-essential expenditures through the state budget. And that's why no one should be surprised, and here I agree with you that here consciously plans to take the state budget of approximately 2.5 billion because it's kind of a moral and real debt state, a wasteful state, which is witnessed by many economies that fill that budget and that enables the state to carry out some of its obligations. However, the state has an obligation to be rational especially in times like this. Now it's too late to intervene. In the right way, these measures may be fire-fighting but there is no other way out because they did not do what they did in time, they were not conducted by analyses in the state or the government and they did not rationalise the budget when it was being filled and not now that the tax is being paid and therefore there is no one else to pay but politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26138	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26139	My colleague Antunović, the strongest argument in favour of this bill, and why I supported it is precisely that I believe that it is a direct investment aid for further development because the capital of money is already in the market and the release of taxation is particularly reinvested in profit we avoid any other interferences by the redistribution of that money, so primarily the state and because of the part of entrepreneurship that has been proven able to market. And by helping that very part of the economy would make the most of it. I also agree with you that this is a fire measure we unfortunately must withdraw, which is why I said, so if there's no other way, let's agree for at least two years to stay until this crisis is resolved and Obama solves the crisis until the crisis is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26140	Thank you. We have a further replica of the distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26141	Dear colleague Lesar, you are here several times in your debate saying the government would do this, the government would do that. The government doesn't care what we're talking about today, because yesterday, when we discussed the day before yesterday about the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs at Sports Battles, there was a Deputy Prime Minister, one Minister, two Secretary of State, sixteen assistants, because it's obviously very important for this country. Today, when we discuss anti-recession measures, we have here two State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance. The government doesn't have its own measures and she doesn't care what anyone else thinks about how it might come out of this situation that we're in right now. Croatia is the only country in the world in which the recession will not come when the economic institute says it, in which the recession will not come when economic indicators show it, but when prime ministers and the government declare it. Since they haven't prepared their anti-recession measures yet, I can't declare a recession. The only problem is what happens once the government takes the head out of the sand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26142	Thank you. And we have a replica, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26143	Dear counterpart Lesar, you said that these two to three billion kunas that would remain in the Croatian economy would make a significant contribution to the recovery of the Croatian economy, but thus povertyed the budget. However, this Croatian government, as my colleague Mrsic said, still has no measure nor is it in recession. And there are no criteria for the Croatian government to divide these, or return these two, three billion kunas back to headship. I believe it would have been a long time and that it would have been an impossible mission, so that even here it wouldn't have helped this funeral activity bill of yours. On the other hand, the government still has no measures to overcome this economic and general crisis. It should also be seen in the last current hour, how much it all gathered in Croatia. The only measure of this government and this ministry is going to the bank, new borrowing, and even for the salaries of MPs, for pensions and for everything that makes up consumption. And thus again reduces the possibility of this very Croatian economy so that in these business banks, which all sides except a few Croatian banks would be in charge and invest in... investment, production and creation of new jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I call, finally here is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Sanader, to explain to the Croatian public whether or not we are "in bananas" and that Minister Shuker and his ministry finally realize that we are really in a deep, economic and general crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26144	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go. Col. Vinkovic may, too, accept this proposal for a moment impoverish the budget, but two things, two very simple moves would enrich it. Namely, by correcting the monitoring and measurement of the GDP when we included in it, and the grey economy of GDP has increased, by how much? 15%? If I'm not mistaken for 15%. This means that about 15% of tax revenues are lagging out of the state budget because those in charge don't charge everything. It's a solid foundation, for example. And two. According to the state audit, at the end of 2007, the customs administration in the main book and the financial report did not show 4 billion customs claims. That's for 2007. If there are 3 to 4 billion undisclosed customs claims for 2008 too, it is even more since this law would be taken from the state budget for a moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26146	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. This proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax at first sight seems short and simple, therefore, only two articles are changed and in some ways there is no reason not to accept it. The tax base is simply reduced by two more items, in addition to the existing 7 that are incorporated into the existing law and in the second article, so the tax base increases by one point next to the already existing 13 points. However, these two items in the first article, therefore, reinvested profit and retained profit are not termologically defined, their content is not accurately prescribed. When trying to implement the installation of these changes in the balance sheet and form... is located on a series of ambiguities and indiscretions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, it is not defined what size it is, that reinvested profit, which is part of the gain and how it is calculated, how it is determined. What are the reinvested profit papers? Is that some kind of elaborate? Can reinvested profits be considered to be the purchase of a luxury car? An entrepreneur may feel that he needs a car for his business, will we also reduce the tax base? Furthermore, to which does the entrepreneur demonstrate that this reinvested profit will indeed be invested in investments or other forms of business promotion, in which way and in what methods will it prevent the misuse of this tax relief, i.e. to ensure that it is used to improve business, to invest, to increase production or export? So I think it should all be written in that law. Similar ambiguities and undefined concepts occur when applied in the practice of new point 7. "contained profit." What is the size of the "contained profit", how to define it in the production of the annual accounts of entrepreneurs, when in practice it is determined by the Assembly of Shareholders in the adoption of the annual accounts, by the decision on the distribution of profits and by the Assembly being held as a rule after the date of handover of the annual accounts to the tax administration. April 30th and until 20th. The 9th, then, should be held. In the second article of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law, which provides for an increase in the tax base for retained profits, the same problem is the application of this article in practice. Here, though, tried to define the term but in practice on... the position of the annual accounting from earlier years does not have an unsettled profit for which no tax is paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's a good idea to propose such undefined provisions of law that leave the possibility of abuse and arbitraryness in interpretation but also difficulties in application. Let's say, here's an example, possible abuses of reinvested get defined by this proposal. An entrepreneur, for example, all of his profits or a large part of it, schedules in reinvested profits. Reduce your tax base for the accounting year, say 2008 and pay a small or no tax. Use the reinvested one as he pleases, because there's nothing there, there's no definition. Therefore, for its own personal needs, because there is no provision for which evidence it must ensure that it is used for development. On the other hand, during the 2008 accounting year, he paid profit tax advances based on the profits achieved in the previous year 2007. And since this year you have reduced the tax base for reinvested profits, the actual tax liability will be significantly lower than the amount paid and will have legal grounds to claim a refund, i.e. a refund of taxes. At the same time, the tax advance for the next year, so now in 2009 will be small or none because it is paid on the basis of the profits achieved in 2008. Therefore, it does not appear that this law will not affect the state budget. So we're aware that there are those entrepreneurs who don't do business by the right principles, we call them quasi entrepreneurs. In this way, a legal system for obtaining profits and personal benefits and avoidance of income tax would be possible. On the other hand, entrepreneurs whose objective is to increase or expand their activity and to secure their own capital for investments in the existing Profit Tax Act have at their disposal a number of tax incentives, exemptions and clearly defined incentive measures. This is why I propose that this legislative proposal is not accepted and I propose that future amendments or proposals for new laws be seriously and professionally elaborated on legal matter in order for it to be clearly, easily applicable in practice or in real business. I think that when making legal proposals, we should work closely with those who will implement these laws in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26148	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, there is no fear that Croatian entrepreneurs would invest their profits in expensive or luxurious cars or yachts. However, we have witnessed and as representatives, as well as citizens, that the fleet in various ministries has been restored, even one minister had to return an expensive BMW or Mercedes, which is where I think of the Ministry of Agriculture even though the incentives have not yet been paid, etc. And the latest example is that this is also happening in public enterprises, e.g. in Croatia, the electricity industry. We're witnessing electricity, gas. We will not need a new energy crisis in Croatia, neither Russia nor Ukraine, nor Julia Timoshenko nor Vladimir Putin because neither Croatian citizens nor the Croatian economy will be able to pay for it. At the same time, this amount of these funds will not help this floating or swimming budget as someone here called it, because that budget is getting deeper and deeper.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26150	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26151	Well, here you go, Agent Vinkovic, I was first-row talking about how everything should be defined. So, the reinvested profit, that's the term because it affects directly on, so these changes, to the state budget. You know the state budget has both the income and the expenditure side. If you're influencing one side, and this law would definitely cut budget revenues, then tell me what expenditure we need to cut. But not in this way, but should mean specifically, it should be said that those users of the state budget simply will be questioned about their execution. We can bring a whole series of suggestions to get to the citizens, but that's not the point. The aim of the MPs is to pass those laws that are clear, so if you go to reinvested profits then you have to know what it is. So without what it is, exactly what it is. That's the law. When we pass and have such a law, I'll see what the law is, maybe I'll uphold that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26152	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26153	Well, here's a respected colleague, you've noticed quite well that this law isn't actually meant to be applied because it has a whole series of disadvantages, especially the definition of reinvested profits. The worst was written for this political moment. First of all, the first announcement of the disaster, it's going to be all bad, everything is catastrophic, and then we'll make you, we'll help you, we'll give you, just choose us. Interestingly, this happens before the elections, and that it should be taken into the state budget. And we grab into the state budget so that the government doesn't have enough for what it needs, so for the salaries of all those paid by the government, for paying the debts that were incurred and for the time when the promoters were in power and for a whole series of other things. According to this, I'm very glad that my colleagues are rebelling, because apparently they feel affected... So I don't think the target will be hit... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26154	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26155	Not by this law, not by a whole series of new laws, because first of all, it's about politics, not good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26156	Thank you. Replication response. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd just say, point out what it says in the explanation, so it's written, the SDP has written such an explanation that it highlights the advantages of this law, the current Tax on Profits Act. It says, exactly, that the 20% profit tax rate is among the lowest rates in the region at all. The share of investments in Croatia's gross domestic product is about 31% and among the highest in the region. That's what this bill says. So this proposal, or this current law, is good when it says so. And he says the Croatian economy has been making more profit than losses for several years. Therefore, we have a good law on profit tax, and if our entrepreneurs achieve from year to year really positive results.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26158	Thank you. And distinguished representative Željka Antunović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26159	As the colleague said, we have a good law, but this proposal goes with the intention of adapting it to the current moment and making it better, better from the aspect of possible business or business in the crisis of the Croatian economy, which directly depends on the number of employees, their reduction or increase, regularity or irregularity and the level of wages paid. And that's why we can't close our eyes in front of that fact. However, I have volunteered for the replica because of your argument against this law, and these are possible abuses. Well, fellow Members, if that's an argument, then no tax law could be passed because there are always possible abuses. But that's why there's a state, there's a body of control and control. But obviously, you don't trust these supervisory authorities either, because you're certainly on your own, because it's a profession, you've convinced you that often times these supervisory bodies serve political protection to some people not to pay taxes, but that's why taxes and taxes are paid by the small ones who are really being prosecuted for, say, misrepresentation and then the tax debt. That should be changed, in the structure of the state, those who worry about the implementation of these laws and prevent major abuses, and not because of that they give up the law which will enable and amortise the loss of jobs expected and officially planned, and the reduction of salaries to employees, which would have to be our common goal. Save standard and minimise job losses.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26160	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26161	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Honorable Representative Antunovic. I'm not afraid of abuse in that sense, I just want to, and you said yourself that I've been working, that I'm in the profession. I know exactly that should be defined, precisely defined terms and tasks. And if this law in any way helped the economy without making it possible for someone at the same time and you're not going to tell who you should because in this bill exactly, I see that you've all agreed that about two and a half billion will be a lack of funds. You didn't tell who needs to be reduced. So we go to the entrepreneurs with this law that we say is good, that it is among the best in the region. But you won't tell who needs a cut for it. Two and a half billion is not small. Besides, I gave you a nice example of practice because I worked in finance, I worked in banking. This is true. Under the law, I am asked how much the tax on profit would actually be reduced and how much it would affect the state budget. That's true. I've read it correctly. That's because I've been working and I know how it goes. So if we're going to bring it in, then exactly the reinvested profit is that, that, that. That reinvested profit gets that, that, that. Then I'll say there's no abuse, that's precisely defined. This law will not ultimately contribute to the development of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26162	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank my colleague Majdanić for giving us good suggestions and remarks since the law is in the first reading we are ready to respect every good remark and install it into our proposal until the second reading. You are referring to our argument, which is actually just a confirmation that we are not the catastrophes as we want to show our proposal here, but that we are starting from the real basics, but to predict the future, we are predicting the problems that occur in the economy today and that will happen in the coming months and we want to outrun them. How to determine the reinvested profit, i.e. retained profit. This is a number of reliefs, exemptions and the like in the tax system are regulated by the Regulation for both profit tax and income tax. There are rules with the law. How do you determine profit? It is obtained by the tax balance. You know exactly how much profit is determined. It's bookkeeping stuff. It may not be very appropriate to discuss them here in this way, but business books record how much profits are made, investments are recorded, exactly how much investment is covered by own resources, how much credit money and that's not the problem to control. Any law can be misused if there is no control. Unfortunately, we in Croatia have very little control. At this point, I'm just going to say here's the current report from the State Audit Office that says our Tax Administration is irregularly controlling entrepreneurs regarding tax duties, especially large taxpayers. So let's do something to make this surveillance effective, control the books, and there won't be any problems. It is better to directly favour businesses that are profitable and that at that time they are given certain benefits, rather than providing certain resources for interventions in the budget. Because then there can always be benefits, there can be subjective assessments and we tend that when it is possible to directly benefit in the sense that those who earn the profits can in a certain way reinvest without tax, retain existing production, increase production, have better technology, create new jobs, then make it possible for them to do so. Because it benefits both the state budget and the increase in income from such taxes in the long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26164	Thank you. And now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26165	Here's representative Zgrebec said the profit tax rule said what was reinvested profit was not true. I checked it out. That's not true, and if it's supposed to be then it should be put on, it should be written in this law. Therefore, the reinvested profit under this law has not been defined and I am glad that I encouraged you and that if someone does not support that law did say that I have made some remarks, then here I am in some way glad that you have accepted that this law is truly inconclusive and that it simply cannot be applied in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26166	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26167	Thank you, sir. Well, the colleague incorrectly states that this law proves that the SDP is not a disaster. If we have listened to colleagues, numerous colleagues besides other colleagues, it is quite an announcement of the disaster. But that reminds me of when you plant a man's leg he falls, and then you tell him listen, I'll give you my hand and I'll raise you up, but if they adopt my law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26168	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26169	Mr. President, this time very briefly. The public is, I believe Mrs. Zgrebec quoted our meeting on the Committee on Finance, but I really must admit that I haven't heard Mrs. Shime's word or sentence that the IRS doesn't control enough taxpayers. I think this time it's been a clumsy reflection, because as far as I know, it really wasn't said directly in that form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26170	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26171	Dear colleagues, you said it was poor tax control, so here I would ask not to write a parliamentary question for the Tax Administration to deliver here in the Croatian Parliament list,...... Wait a minute! [[You can't hear it, you can't hear it.]] Well, I'll fix it, I'll fix it. Well, I corrected my colleague, and now I'm asking the IRS and the Ministry of Finance to deliver a list of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26172	You're not correcting the quote. Your Honor, let your colleague Gordan Maras warn you. Please! Don't throw it away! Sit down! It's not an incorrect correction!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26173	Here's another one of my colleagues I'll fix, let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26174	Please! Please, Your Honor. Don't spoil your mood and make a mess, because it's not that you have no right...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26175	No, no, I don't make at all. Just let me because you took my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26176	Please! You can't talk any further. Thank you very much. We continue the debate, and now you discuss...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26177	And as for the disaster, we're on the verge of a break-in, but we're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26178	Please. And now I would ask you to agree at the SDP club that what the distinguished representative Gordan Maras said is on the trail of good behavior within the HDZ and I agree with that in principle. We stick to the strict Rules of Procedure, but not to stick to just one part of the Parliament, but to stick to everyone, including you, Mr. Vinkovic. If you don't have a Rules of Procedure, we'll get it for you. Here. Let's move on with the debate. There can't be a breach of the Rules of Procedure on what I just told you. You can't have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26179	You, according to the Rules of Procedure, read it as well, you can give me a warning, and you don't have to keep me circulations on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26180	Dear Representative, read the Rules of Procedure, and you will see that I can tell you this, and I will not give a warning because it will not affect you. Let's move on with the debate. [[Applause.]] Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26181	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. It's a shame that in this home everything proposed by the opposition is characterized as politicizing by unnecessary cynicism, by sowing fear among citizens, by one disastrous, so here by speech. It's bad that all the bill proposals here are actually spoken of by one label instead of arguments. This is a topic that definitely those who are looking at us right now have no good opinion about us, and even because of this kind of debate, citizens don't think about us well. In fact, citizens feel the fall of standards every day, feeling that they can buy less and less with their salaries and pensions. Many of them have already been fired and they feel this crisis on themselves. Ignoring this issue of citizens in this House is certainly not an honor to this House, or rather, to those who behave in this House. So when we speak out of opposition that there's a problem in the economy, that there's a recession in the economy, that's what all the indicators say, then the government tells us from the ruling structure, so we're spreading fear. So if you can't hear us, why can't you hear the masters talking to you? Why don't you hear, for example, people in the economy who warn that the situation is difficult, that they can't do it anymore and that the government has to move out of place, that it has to take measures that will make their position easier for them this year? Why don't you hear the president from, so the Association of Employers when he warns you on behalf of those who work in the economy? Why don't you hear, for example, the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce who said today: "It will take us at least a decade to get out of the crisis. Whoever says otherwise is lying." Why can't we hear this man? Why don't you gentlemen in the ruling structure hear a man who works and works in an economy who certainly doesn't speak in his mind when you don't trust us? Why don't you trust indicators, statistics? We don't spread any fear, we don't talk about disaster. We're talking about what statistical indicators are, and these gentlemen have been showing an extremely large decline of all parameters in the economy for the last quarter. Economic growth rates have already dropped to 1.6% from the 7th to the 9th month. Economic analysts say we'll be happy if it's zero at 12 months, if we don't have a negative omen. Economic growth rates of industrial production, look at the negative signs they have and how they fall from month to month in the last few months of the past year. The retail trade that has constantly negative signs and falls, from month to month, which means that people fall into their standard, that they can spend less and less, that they buy less and less. Why are you ignoring that data? Because if you admit it, then you have to admit that something has to be done in this country, and obviously it's extremely difficult, to come up with measures that can help the economy, and then to keep their standards and to keep their jobs this year. Why aren't you worried about, for example, an increase in the number of unemployed? And here's that data for the past year. In the last quarter alone, 18,238 people were more at the employment office. In December alone, there were about 9,000 more of them. Only in one month. And we here dare ignore it and say, no, no problem in Croatia, no crisis. I have to admit, a very bad message to our citizens. Very bad. Take a look at the employment in Croatia which also permanently falls. Worse. In just three months last year, there were 25,000 fewer employees. 25,000 fewer people who create, earn, fill the state budget, ensure that the pension system survives, the health system, education, everything financed from the state budget. In the past year, therefore, an increasing number of unemployed people have been present, an increasing number of employees. So, definitely these indicators tell us that we have a crisis in the country, economical and that we have to do something and by all parameters we are in recession, we want someone to say it or not. We did. To say that, to admit to Croatian citizens means to make yourself aware that something needs to be done and that something needs to be changed in this country. This year's main imperative to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you gentlemen here in HDZ must be to preserve jobs, preserve jobs and preserve such a standard of citizens. A large number of people are burdened with housing loans. What's gonna happen to the people who are gonna lose their jobs this year? What about these 21 thousand people who ended up at the employment office last year? Will someone take care of it? What about those families that might be on the street overnight? And that's why, the Profit Tax Act is just one of the, uh, 24 laws that we've already already referred to, we're going to refer to the parliamentary procedure in the next period that we want to say that there is a way and there are measures that can help the economy not to be burdened further this year, but to help it survive and preserve jobs and to preserve such a existence of a large number of our citizens. The fact that the Government is unaware of the state we are in shows this view of the Government, which states that this law is a cost for the budget and that it will reduce the revenue side of the budget. Well, my dear gentlemen, if you're treating investment in the economy as a cost all the time, and not as an investment in the new created value, in future budgeting, then that really speaks of one bad policy that this government has towards the economy. No lip invested in the economy is a cost. It's a bet. It's a bet. And that's why it's amazing when in the government's opinion we get one sentence like this to cost this. The fact that you saw it as a cost was also said by my colleague Bernardić when he read to you about how much this budget dropped the amounts of all the items that are directed towards the economy this year. They should have been significantly increased, that's what we've been telling you all along. That's what the people of the economy tell you. No, you kept reducing those items. A colleague Bernardic here spoke some up to 30% reduced, some up to 60. What kind of policy is the HDZ government that, in this year when additional funds are to be given to the economy, you reduce those additional funds. And you resist that policy in no way change it. And you know what citizens will pay the highest price of your policy. The problem is indifference. So, there's been an increase in system in the last year alone. The number of blocked legal persons increased by 30%, and the amount of outstanding obligations of up to 60 days, so by as much as 65.66% of those legal entities. There's about 36,000 workers working in these companies. Unless the liquidity problem is solved, and these 36,000 workers are at high risk of losing their jobs this year. So, my dear gentlemen, stop looking at who is proposing in this House, watch what is proposed, what quality of this law and as soon as possible, because many warn that we are already late. Bring measures to help the economy and the population survive this year. Because if you don't hear us from the SDP, listen to people who work in the economy and who are already not dealing with how to communicate in public with their products, but how to communicate with the cancellations that have already started and are scheduled for the next few months. So, it's not the spread of panic, it's not the spread of fear, because my fellow citizens and fellow citizens already feel it on their backs and we can't therefore close our eyes to it, but let's just say once we have a problem, we have a crisis and let's see what we do to make this crisis in this year as little as possible feel the primary therefore in our citizens' economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26182	Thank you. And now we have a few corrections, incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26183	Well, MP Opacic obviously didn't listen today when we talked here, so she keeps saying that no one listens to the businessmen, and that's why she won't deny that even the representatives that the businessmen have in their associations are in contact with the executive government. And they're also talking to them in this economic advice, and now, as I said, if you followed that the Economic Institute is preparing certain measures, that's not true. Secondly, as far as unemployment is concerned, be honest and then say that 80% of this unemployment rate is about one average that varies monthly for reasons that are done in contracts for a certain period of time. And these are your contracts when a man makes a contract of work, and then he knows when he stops. So it has nothing to do with this recession right now if you follow the statistics look. Secondly, let's be honest, so let's say in 2001, you were also warned that the recession was to bring recession measures from the union. I'll tell you now if you don't believe bring the excerpts that were and how you were warned at the same time. So that's not the problem. Now all of a sudden you realize that people have a hard time living. [[Intruder: Time.]] People have been living hard for decades, for years. [[Intruder: Time.]] And do not abuse at this time these problems that have started from Europe, the world and also about Croatia So all these measures you're proposing are populist, what are they going to... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26184	Your Honor, I thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's MP Opacic said that for us, I guess thinking of HDZ that investment in the economy is a cost. We never said that. That's not true. We said it was a reduction in the state budget, and of course it's important to say what should be reduced, which budget users. We never did, we don't think investment in the economy is a cost. But speaking of how you have your own measures, anti-recession measures, I suggest you patent it then, patent the SDP and send Obama, America, the world, wherever the crisis is, where the economic downturn and the downfall of employment are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26186	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is how I have to fix it, because my colleague Opacic said that as an anti-recession proposal. They are therefore good measures for Croatian citizens and the economy. I say that the quote is not correct, because it is a respected colleague, and the SDP has forgotten about a small matter, which is that Croatian citizens should cost it 15 billion. Namely, this should again come from the budget, and a budget full of Croatian citizens. Well, I don't know. I can't handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26188	Thank you. Dear representative Goran Maric, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26189	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect assumption that what colleague Opacic said that the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is certainly not speaking in mind. Well, serious economists are not about predicting the future, but about creating a future. And economic science doesn't know such predictions, because the economy depends on a lot of factors. So this predicted ten - year - old really falls within the domain of speaking by heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26190	Thank you. And now we're moving on with the debate. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26191	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, here I am in the beginning, so I must comfort my representatives. There have been talks here about Obama and the US crisis programme, and I'm glad Obama's proposal and SDP's proposal are similar. We would also like to have a response from the government to get Croatia out of the crisis. There's how it happens. But I'll also have to agree with you, and I'll agree that it's always easier to find more arguments why you don't do something, but why do something. Well, that's the simplest thing. Let's do nothing, and then we'll have a simpler life. Doing what I already said, not doing it even more expensive, and doing it wrong is the most expensive. And that's exactly what these measures and items shown in the state budget show. While the whole of Europe gives more money for the economy, Croatia stands out less. While the whole of Europe recognises the importance of intervention now in the economy, the Croatian government has not even arrived. While the whole of Europe gives incentives to export, to restructure industry, to stimulate industry, we reduce items. Well, I already mentioned that. 25% lower in shipbuilding, 20% less in production-enhancing, 30% in competitiveness, 30% in restructuring, and for export-enhancing subsidies, as much as 60% less. But not only that, we also passed the Unhappiness Act on Sundays. Here today I'm reading 20% of the traffic in small shops has fallen. So as if Croatia a small country with 4.5 million inhabitants can afford such procedures that one Germany cannot afford, which one France cannot afford and Croatia is dependent on other countries, depending on the import of everything. Croatia cannot afford such laws. And that law is just like these other ones I would dare say from the pro-recession laws of non-recession. And the planning was also prophesy. There was also talk about the city of Zagreb, there was also talk about the city's budget. I must warn the MPs, since I am a representative in the city assembly and I call on all those MPs who want to sit in the next term to sit in the City Assembly and discuss the problems there let them run. But also, I must remind myself that the city of Zagreb is the engine of the Croatian economy. 60% of all revenues are made in the city of Zagreb. You kill the city of Zagreb, you killed Croatia, you killed a pensioner in Dalmatia, Slavonia, wherever you should make your pension, social aid, compensation, means disability pension or any form of social rights because 60% of the economy and the largest number of income just comes from the city of Zagreb. Here, you've got people from the IRS who'll confirm that to you. And I wouldn't agree with any argument that you can't track this or she gets because we have the IRS, so you wouldn't be able to track that we don't have and let's not belittle the people who came here, who are doing their job responsibly, and because of what we just can track we've proposed this proposal. You also mentioned savings. I'm here, I don't know if I've made myself clear. I initially taxed out where everything could be saved, I taxed. You saved in this budget on the economy, that's what the numbers say. However, where it can still be saved is what we have listed, which is the reform of a massive state administration, the saving of companies in majority state ownership. We also suggested it. We also suggested reviewing management contracts, setting priorities in public investment with priority investments in energy. We also suggested by the National Bank, so the price of capital was mentioned, which is one single let's say the valid argument that was made here by fellow Maric. However, I must say that it is not an exclusive argument because it is one of the arguments. And not only that, but we sent in the procedure two conclusions to the Croatian National Bank to create guidelines for monetary policy to see how we will with investments this year precisely because we are aware that we need to lower the price of capital we have decided to increase the core capital of HABOR that our bank can finance our investments and we have sent all those laws that we think will just encourage investment and lower interest rates and boost investment. And so, the only thing I can say in the end is that you can't push your head into the sand, we have to understand together that Croatia is in trouble, that there's room to do some things, but that some things have to be done. And if you have no solutions we have them, we have proposed them and support our solutions when you don't have them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26192	Thank you. And now we have two corrections of incorrect allegations and three replicas. The first is the correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26193	Thank you very much. A colleague, Bernardic, said that capital is only one of the elements of fostering economic activity. I'd fix it. This, however, is the most important factor in promoting economic activity and is known to be the factors in the production of land, labour and capital. In Croatia, it is not a problem of country and work, the problem is really just capital. I have never heard of them objecting to the profit tax rate, but they are contributing to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26194	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26195	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Bernardic, claims, quotes "Croatia is too small to afford unworkable weeks clearly in the store.". But I think it's absolutely wrong because many small and large countries in Europe also don't work on Sundays, so I guess that's why they're in recession. But Croatia cannot afford the health, protection or non-preservation of the health of many people who work and many women who work in the store. A few tens of thousands of mothers are home with their children. So just think about what's better, 20% of what you're saying and what's casual or what's left of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26196	Thank you. And now we have three replicas. First is Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26197	So you see, colleague Bernardich, you have called upon the measures of Obama. We do know or most Croatian citizens know what Obama will propose and what it will discuss in Congress. We know what Germany will do because Germany is supposed to be in recession. We know what France will do because France is supposed to be in recession. All these parliaments discussed anti-recession measures. The only thing we don't know is what the Croatian government will do. Unfortunately, instead of discussing today or facing this Parliament in which the opposition had to insist and initiate a debate on the situation in the economy and the state to discuss and say ok SDP's proposal is such, such, good or bad but we have better but we have better to adopt what is better we are faced today with denying SDP's proposal and ignoring the crisis. And that's two big problems. So, the SDP is initiating a discussion about the problem. The problem is not to be discussed but to deny the problem and to ignore the general crisis that it is. Unfortunately, the time will run over us and at some point when the head of the sand is pulled out if by then there is enough sand to bury all these problems that are now around our heads, then we will be in a much more difficult situation. It is not to believe that if some already claim that the crisis is initiated outside that the resolution of the crisis will also come from outside. We're still gonna have to do something ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26198	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26199	Dear fellow Mršić, you have pulled a great parallel and three key things that are doing not only the United States but also the European Union with its 200 billion euros worth of the financial plan has just had three components that the SDP has just proposed, which are measures in the area of economic protection and economic promotion, measures in the area of protection of the population as an extremely important measure and the most vulnerable groups in this population and measures in the area of restrictions or restrictions in the public sector. So the three components have the United States, there are the European Union and we have proposed them. The only thing I'm afraid of is my colleague Mršić, when you've mentioned sand, I wouldn't like it if we didn't propose enough in time, if we didn't propose them now to prevent the negative trends in the economy, I wouldn't want it to be just sand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26200	Thank you. And a replica of Honorary Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26201	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With most of our parliamentary representatives and representatives, colleagues and colleagues on the Internet, so if they look at any page, any company, they will see mission and vision, mission or vision. The mission or us as a person or a company answers the question why I an exist? Why do we exist? We exist to be bakers, waiters, doctors, here and there to be a parliamentary representative, at least in one term. But what's on the other side and that's vision, where are we going? Where are we going? And that's the point, that's the point of fellow Bernardic, yours and our anti-recession... not why we exist, we know this, but based on good practice, the town of Koprivnica and the city of Zagreb, based on good practice and good city management and Koprivnica and Zagreb, you are a member of the city's assembly, large revenues to enable the good health of our women, and not as some now say on what women do on Sundays, for God's sake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But based on good preventive reviews, good income growth, it provides a great health and social programme and the city of Koprivnica and the city of Zagreb. It means mission and vision. This is exactly the prediction of the future, and this distinguishes those who have a vision from those who do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26202	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26203	Comrade Ostojić, I will agree with you when you say that it is very important to look at the problem, and that is what we repeat all the time that the problem needs to be looked at broadly so that it can be removed, i.e. to be resolved. That things should be approached in a systematic way. And that's why it's very important for these things to be dealt with systematically in health care, in school, in every segment. It's not enough and I've repeated it when there's been a report from the National Foundation for Science, it's not enough just to provide space for students, build schools, not what's most important, what our children need is to open the doors of the university all over, open up a return to educated people in economic growth, and in order to achieve that, you have to invest in people, you have to invest in human potential. And I am glad that it is also the biggest investment in Koprivnica and in the city of Zagreb, and I hope it will remain that way. But I would like other parts of Croatia to follow this positive trend.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26204	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26205	Thank you very much, Mr Bernardic, you have well noted that the government's measure has nothing to do with the fact that only we citizens see it and the businessmen see it. Here, counterpart Kunst mentioned that they are participating in the GSV and that yesterday the representative of the GSV, Mr Ivica Mudrinic, attacked the Croatian government for failure to act, attacked the government by accusing it of indecision, compromise, inability to take reform moves, and especially for lack of leadership. On the other hand, he warned of what we also warn from the SDP that the government is acting in a way that forms advice and that the economic council could serve as an alibi for the government's wrong political moves and that we are not taking measures, not making any moves or any laws that could draw us out of the recession could lead us further into the crisis. So it's not just us saying that, Mr. Bernardic and the waist. In particular, Croatian businessmen. And that's why I think this law is necessary and that we need to bring it in as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26206	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26207	This is all true and all these media statistics and generally statistics are unfortunately so. And we're not angry that none of the ministers came today. Let's not be angry that you have arguments about why you don't accept it, but we have to be angry that in the last three months there are 11,000 people left for work. We are angry about this, but I guarantee you that we will not be angry if you take our laws, copy them, take what you like and suggest them as your own but to save the Croatian economy. I'm telling you, we're not gonna get mad, but take it and do something we have to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26208	Thank you. And we're moving on with an individual debate. Honorable representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here's a lot that's been said today, but I think it's important to repeat some things about the amendment bill and the additions to the profit tax law. In the discussions, in replicas, in the corrections of incorrect allegations, it was mentioned that the reduction of the tax base for the calculation of the profit tax would definitely lead to a reduction in the revenues of the state budget. I think that's one basis to think about, means income from profit tax. And we've heard that there's no amount of 2 billion and 400 million kuna this year. This is another assumption that would lead to deficits and we know what ailing this year we have that this minimum deficit, which is reduced to slightly more than 1% in the 2009 budget, is closed by credit funds. Imagine what would have just happened if the deficit this year had been at the level of the 2004 one or to increase it from all these 20 and some SDP proposals to over 20 billion. Where to find the money, from which banks take the money, to which the burden on the state to borrow, means again to the shareholders the possibility of lending credit funds to the deficit that would be very high in the case of these legal proposals. I don't see any other way, and unfortunately neither are the letters in these particular problems in these SDP legal proposals. Furthermore, I've changed my debate, it's planned and I want to look back here at two things when we talk about the discussions that my colleagues had before. So here I would remind myself of the discussions of fellow Lesar who counted what all entrepreneurs and investors must pay for which contributions, taxes, obligations, when investing... investment and investment implementation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to say that there are areas of special state concern in Croatia. The areas that were killed in the Homeland War in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the resolution ministries and units and local self-government through various tax reliefs, and one of these tax reliefs is the release of profit tax, provide better conditions for investment, for economic development, for new employment, for dislocating industry, for entrepreneurship from large city centres in peripheral parts of Croatia. Also, there is a significant role of the units of local self-government and on this occasion I think of the opportunities that other units of local self-government have in more developed parts of Croatia that could give up their part of the cake and through the tax on the company, through municipal contributions, communal fees, if they have such a desire to help entrepreneurs conduct their investments at this time. In my town, in Pakrac, there's no cut, the cut is 0%. In the corporate zone in Pakrac, the municipal contribution is 0%. These are direct revenues that the city, not rich, suffered in the Homeland War, to enable and attract entrepreneurs to invest by carrying out a long-term policy, not such a short-term, fire-fighting policy as this tax proposal is, to open new jobs, that over the year, two, three from income tax come and return funds to the city's budget, so with the communal fees that are in the first years or 0% or a minimum percentage in the coming years there is a significant charge of the city's budget. I call on this route and again to tell entrepreneurs, I do not need to invest expensively in Zagreb, in some rich cities, when there are opportunities for investment to be carried out in smaller cities that are increasingly better and traffic-related to centres, with city centres, with large cities to come, to invest in these areas because there is both labour cheaper and income tax exemptions, meaning a tax which, for example, is 0% in some cities. I would also remember the debate, or one announcement by my colleague Bernardic, who said that the city of Zagreb is transferring its revenues to other parts of Croatia. Yeah, in one part, I agree with that. The biggest revenues are certainly made in Zagreb and thank God for that because this is one example of how the city tried to transfer directly to the city of its income and help us to the less developed and injured in the war. 3-4 years ago in Pakrac, an action was launched by the Croatian Catholic Association of Nurses and Technicians and the town of Pakrac to raise funds, about 250,000 kunas for the purchase of mammograms in our hospital in Pakrac. It is normal for the mayor of Zagreb in short pants, running around the city, taking pictures, promising tens of thousands of kuna to conduct the action. Unfortunately, after all these pictures, a press statement, we received 0 kuna, meaning transferred funds from the City of Zagreb budget. Here is an example of how the City of Zagreb transfers its incomes and its resources to other parts of Croatia. For all the above, here are these reminders in my debate, for sure that this SDP proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26210	Thank you. And now we have the first correction of an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26211	Vice President. Comrade Huška, you've made some incorrect allegations. I'll name two. The first thing you said was that there were no letters about where the state should be financed. Yes, I said it in the opening letter, that we also sent this proposal, not to take money away from Croatian entrepreneurs. And number two, you said some units of local self-government could give up some of their income. This is incorrect because some have already given up, such as the City of Zagreb, whose Law on the redistribution of income taxes took two billion. If we look at it that way, we can say that the City of Zagreb has already paid in the last year not to freeze salaries in the state administration. Citizens of the City of Zagreb, and that should be said loudly, paid not to freeze salaries in the state administration even last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26212	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26213	Thank you very much. Mr. Huška said, and I'm going to correct that incorrect assumption, that this is kind of a fire measure and that we on one side are taking this bill 2 and a few billion from the state budget, not to show where we're going to get them from. The fact is, it is not incorrect that it is a fire measure just because this government has set fire to the economy "fire" or the situation is unsustainable and because next year we are likely to have economic growth, but a fall, and on the other hand we are not taking from budget 2 and some billion kuna, because it is very likely that, as I said earlier, much of that money would return to the budget only in another direction. So don't like most debates today from the HDZ Club of Representatives, talk about how this is getting out of the budget. No, this is an aid to the economy to put an end to a fire that unfortunately the HDZ has lit with inaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26214	Thank you. And now we have a few replicas. First is the distinguished representative Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26215	Dear colleague, I liked some of your debate. You talked about serious problems potentially facing the Croatian economy on the one hand, on the other hand the state budget, and then all the budget users. You have even made some proposals for how it is possible to rationalise this overall public spending, speaking of the opportunities that exist in the rationalisation and management of public funds in local self-government. That's positive. So this debate of yours has led me to talk about something that you haven't talked about, but what you can recognize, which is one uncompromising refusal of proposals coming from this side of yours. Recently, the prime minister answered my question of what measures the government is taking to say only about the 2008 measures, there are no measures in 2009. They're definitely still waiting by the government or by your side. Here we are with some measures. I think it would be very good for everyone who deals with politics in this country if we didn't refuse something like this and prioritized something that is otherwise when we talk about profit tax and this proposal standard measure, tax or reinvested profit is something that is indeed a standard measure or instrument of tax policy in many countries, in crisis or not crisis. Why should we say no like this? Why don't we make an effort to try and reach a consensus? I think that our citizens, those who have lost their jobs, those who will potentially lose their jobs, those who are at risk of pay would be very valuable to us. Well, give it a rest, I think you've suggested some measures, I'm sure we wouldn't be on this side and the Priors refuse. We need to dissipate the economy in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26216	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Surely I agree to one extent with your exposure, and I can accept that this is one way to free the profit tax and partly leave it to entrepreneurs for reinvestment. But in my City Council in Pakrac, every city councilman knows, when he proposes to cut the budget for any amount, any kuna, that he must say where those funds in the budget will come from. Well, it's not a goat that you don't know here after all these years, if the budget goes down by 2.4 billion kuna in 2009. In the long run, this is really positive. But how in 2009 did you soak those two and a half billion kunas almost? It is regrettable that it is not visible, and here I agree with my colleague Majdenic, who is not visible from where we get these funds in the state budget this year. [[Employed Capricorn: Without a throwaway, honourable representative.]] That's why it's a fire strike. Fire's on fire, let's go put it out in a month. What do we do after that? Where will we find these funds by the end of the year in the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26218	Thank you. Let's move on with the replicas. Now he's a respected representative, Mršić, now you can speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26219	Yes, thank you very much. So I'm surprised by my colleague, Huška, that you're being skeptical here where you get those two-and-a-half billion you're saying there's going to be a loss in the state budget, but that will remain the economy to create maybe seven billion kuna in the future for the state budget. But you were very easy to raise your hand last year, before last year when the Income Tax and Profit Tax Act changed when local self-government ran out of billions of kunas that didn't go to the economy, but went to the state budget, which last year instead of creating assumptions that this year's economic growth would be wasted, when we were acting like drunk rich people. That didn't affect your city, because for you, the state returns the total income tax. It had a negative impact on my city. In total, local self-government in 2008 ran out of €1 billion in profit tax transferred to the state budget. If that hadn't happened last year, if we hadn't done a little bit of sparring, we wouldn't have been acting like drunk rich people in HEP, sponsoring a hat and a fist around, raising the price of electricity, then buying new cars in recession. Here's a proposal from the President of the Chamber of Commerce. He suggests reducing the state budget linearly by 10%. He's even more radical than we are. He's asking for 13 billion cuts in the state budget. He probably has a better view and he knows how to do it. We can cut our salaries to managers in public companies, take their credit cards because they're not on the market. They have nothing to promote that we should invest so much. Only if we cut those things down would we find these two billion kunas that we're talking about today. This would remain in the private sector, not in the public sector that is not exposed to this market.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26220	Thank you. Your time is up and you don't die anymore. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26221	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the last two, three sentences, I agree with my colleague Mršić for sure that there are over-rewarded managers, including mayors and some other public service people in richer cities. I can't agree with what you said the state took to the cities of profit tax, because the poorer cities went well in that redistribution. There's someone to take, there's a God of environments that didn't get killed by war, which aren't destroyed by war, that create profit, that create new values. And it's normal for every normal state to take these units of local self-government, redistribute it to units that can't really survive, or where the economy isn't run after the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26222	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Hanzek, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26223	Thank you, Vice President. I raised instead of correcting an incorrect quote to an esteemed colleague and dear friend of Huski's so he could respond. In fact, we find ourselves in these discussions quite often. The opposition has the right to propose, the authorities refuse because, yes, then in a way, if they accept the opposition's proposal would actually send a message to voters not to vote for them another time. It's all normal, but in times of crisis, I think we should move from theatre to concrete arrangements, conversations, not major coalitions. But some concrete measures. I will apply in this case with Davor in exchange for an opinion that “sit the hungry does not believe. ” The economy has freedom of movement and choice of location. There's no state interventionism with sending companies to Lipik, Pakrac. Let alone the chance to send someone, but rather choose according to their economic standards where they will be located. However, part of the funds that we call tax returns from those who came to Zabok, which is, say, a water contribution that is the same with you and me in Zabok against which I am. I believe that areas of special state concern should not have a water contribution and that this would be one of the measures to stimulate new investments. The state may at some point say you through Croatian waters are now slightly in conflict with the function that I am doing together with the vice president, that in these crisis moments the investor has these givings reduced. There will be some investments in the necessary water supply, but in the crisis we will find solutions to save together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26224	Thank you. Time. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, thank God that there are people on the other side who we really don't have to look over the gun and that we have and share common problems both in local self-government units and in other places where we work and struggle with common problems. Yes, but, fellow Ivan, someone in the budget of the city of Zaboka reduces your income by two million kunas. What would you tell him at the city council session? And it doesn't suggest an increase or any other way to make those proceeds, that two million people settle down. Well, we run cities one and the other, we fight with our budgets, and we know how it's done. So let's be correct here. Issuance for the water contribution, that we pay for it, and we gladly pay for it in Pakrac, and we pay for it. It's being built... that will solve for centuries the problem of water supplying Pakrac and Lipik worth 150 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are our budgets in 10 years, our two cities, complete original incomes. That's why we're happy to pay the water contribution. The sewers are being built, water supply is spreading, and this is one positive imposition of a state that returns directly to citizens on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26226	Thank you. And we have two more replicas. It is now up to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go. No throwing, please nice!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26227	My colleague Huška, I agree with you because the responsible policy knows that the possibilities to conduct anti-resion monetary and fiscal policies are limited, both by a high degree of euroisation and also by foreign responsibilities. However, internal opportunities for positive changes exist in the implementation of structural reforms from shipbuilding, the energy sector to further reform of the health and pension system, which is, of course, the government. However, the proponents of these anti-recession laws, including the one we are talking about today, reject such laws when they enter the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26228	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree 100% with you, my colleague. That's exactly the answer to Mrs. Antunovic. No quality proposal coming from the Croatian Democratic Community and coalition partners goes as long as it is for the benefit of the population, the economy, the health care, the pensioners do not pass, it is rejected on the other side of the parliamentary council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26230	Thank you. And a replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26231	Mr. Vice President, so here I am just hoping, I'm not looking at anyone in this room over a gun, nor will I ever. We're all colleagues here, and I don't think there's a need for that kind of thing. I just hope you don't look at me over a gun, and I'm glad I can have some coffee with you. However, we must be aware that we must face the arguments that Croatia has met and which should be dealt with. So it's not enough to talk about them, it's got to be solved. And I am very pleased that you have raised the issue of transfer and transfer that the City of Zagreb is working towards other parts of Croatia. Well, it's in the spirit of our parties, the social-democratic values because we're such a party, solidarity. And exactly the most investment was from the City of Zagreb towards Vukovar and towards Knin, and there you are firmly in power. And you see, we haven't made a difference, nor will we make a difference. The ends of the special state care need help. People who don't need help, people who have less need help, and we're gonna keep doing that. If the funds were enough in the state budget that you control, we may not need to intervene, but we are glad when we can help and we will continue to help more and stronger, and be without worry and sleep quietly, if promised, the citizens of Pakrac will certainly get what you asked for and there will be no problem in that, and we will continue to help those who need help, and even today-to-morrow when we come to power, even more in Slavonia, especially in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26232	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, thanks for the help you're offering. You're too late. It's been four years. Mammographer was bought for a hospital in Pakrac, and we've got the missing funds from the poor budget of the City of Pakrac because that's another way to further equip with all these activities of the Ministry of Health our hospital. Maybe on another occasion, we'll be glad to invite you, especially those of you who haven't run any marathons and similar activities in the city yet, so really, here we are trying to help Pacrac and Lipik with those citizens. Only one income supplement sent from Zagreb to Croatia. INA, gas stations in Pakrac and Lipik and other parts of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia Insurance, Privredna banka Zagreb, all other companies, institutions that have headquarters in the City of Zagreb, where they regularly pay their taxes and obligations, collect a large number of revenues throughout Croatia. Well, it's time to take part in those revenues...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26234	Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26235	...get back to where they were collected. And colleagues, I didn't really interrupt you while you were talking, so a little culture, we can fight like this later at the bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26236	Thank you. And that's what we are now, we're going to conclude at this point in the morning session. We'll continue at 3:00. First of all, the Honorable Representative of the Iron Flego. Thank you very much, and I wish you well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26237	My colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we begin our work and continue our individual debate. An esteemed colleague named Iron Flego came forward. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26238	Few colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start with this finding that tax policy is part of the policy and it's being solved and it depends more or less on the concept of the state. The concept of the state is that the state authorities want to work in service of public needs and how the state authorities will establish and then serve the needs of the population. In the 21st century, therefore, in the last 50 years, the state has been more or less in its bodies a single supervisory apparatus but also a set of bodies providing many services to its citizens. Regulatory measures serve to optimally function or maintain the existence of the economy, but they also serve the well-being of the population while part of the package to which the state serves is in fact the service of a whole series of needs that people have of those elemental needs so as to say the conditions for serviceing the needs of those elemental ones to the most sublime ones. In that sense, I think it is also necessary to consider the SDP's insistence that in moments that are not economically simple for Croatia or for the rest of the particularly developed world I would actually like to warn of only two elements and therefore I will be relatively short. In that part of the 25-measure package we talked about this morning, this is actually just one but one elemental or one alphabetic. The last 60 years and no later than... further in economic science and political practice, it is quite clear that all those countries that want to develop stimulate their development and different subsidies but also different tax incentives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The re-invented value or the re-investrated profit of a colleague and colleagues is one of the main leverages that countries stimulate not to spend directly but rather to go into investment that will lead to even greater profits. and these measures do so in one piece and suggest it. These measures propose not to take or give someone, but to redistribute or redistribute some part of the budget income for other purposes. Differently saying that business entities are allowed to reinvest their profits in something that will bring new profits, which will keep employment, which is hopefully the employment of growth. And that's what I mean by something that can't be opposed to common sense, let alone anything else, let alone clearly articulated political will. Secondly, it seems to me that Croatia needs to be aware that it has an extremely expensive state, i.e. a state-run apparatus whose costs can only be serviced by good, constant and, if any, high growth rates are possible. And it is therefore necessary to come up with and then agree and implement the measures that will lead to this. Reinvested profit is certainly one of those measures. And it's basically very simple math, to cut revenue today so we can increase it tomorrow. This is the more you and Croatia need to regain awareness of the findings at the time when either the crisis has prevailed or there are direct indicators of the economic crisis. The hair is divided segmentally into the ruling and the opposition, but also the ruling and the opposition have the same concern, that is the benefit of the population. We are representatives or representatives of the people and I would like to remind you that we are sometimes but not always different in the definitions, the methods for which we will achieve this goodness of the people. But it must be in our care, our soul, and our job description to worry about it. And that's why it seems completely inadmissible to me and quite inappropriate to argue about where the measure came from, but to try if it's possible together, especially in times that aren't very easy, but they're crisisy and quite uncertain, find optimal solutions to keep things going or if it's possible for the crisis to turn into something else. So it seems to me that it would be much more instructed, given that time is flying and that all developed countries have already found appropriate measures, and we are not yet at the government level, to accept what we have on the table, that what is on the table of common forces if it is possible to fix and reach some optimum that will stop the current trend of the decline in production and in the rest of what production brings and turns it if it is possible to benefit the well-being of our citizens and all of us together. In so many of my pledoies that it wouldn't happen by chance again as it happens regularly with the budget that none of the 650 governments are good enough to adopt it, but to think about whether we can find a common denominator and move together into something that would be qualitatively different from what we're moving towards right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26239	Thank you very much. We have two applications for replication. First of all, fellow MP Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26240	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Flego, you have warned of one fact that the days have been a little said that this is therefore the benefit of the state budget from the possibility that the economy will be left with the possibility of untaxed reinvesting money. In any case, first of all, the direct benefit if we are already talking about the possibility that 2 billion kunas could possibly be lower in the state budget because that profit will not be charged. But the direct benefit of that is, for example, VAT because each investment will be paid 22% of VAT. The profit tax is 20% and if we don't charge 20% and charge 22% on that tax base, then according to a purely ordinary mathematical formula, the state budget should have 2% more revenue because the VAT on the investment is going to be 22%. So, not that there is no loss, but the de facto revenue of the state budget should be increased. That's one thing. Secondly, it is an investment that should therefore result in someone making that investment. If someone works, then it means that we will save jobs so there will be no cancellations and layoffs, so there will be no shortages in income tax rates. If something is reinvested, it is to assume that a new job will also mean a new income tax. Therefore, our proposal for the Law on non-taxation of reinvested profits is actually going towards increasing the revenues of the state budget, even immediately because the profit tax is charged after the annual application and VAT after 30 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26241	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26242	I was wondering if you actually needed anything to answer to your replica, but only two elements. I want to warn you, and maybe make something stronger than what I originally did. We reach for one well-experienced and economically practical, largely practiced measure and propose it to this Assembly in the hope that the other part of the assembly will understand and want to accept it. And secondly, the benefit of the reinvested benefit has also been double-checked and I hope that it will be adopted and perhaps in some details repaired especially given the arguments and almost the calculations that you made in the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26243	The next application of the replicas is the distinguished counterpart, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26244	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Flego, you're particularly prominent, and I think it's worth pointing out because it's at the end of the line. We have been invited several times by the ruling and by Mr. Prime Minister when he answers here at the current afternoon, so when something can be asked, so when it is not only a monologue but possibly an attempt but a dialogue then he says don't just criticise suggest something. And, of course, as a responsible opposition, therefore not only is the government responsible, we believe that the opposition has a very important role to play, and we consider it our responsibility that at times when the Government only speaks of problems it does not offer. So, by offering this legislative proposal and this whole package of legislative proposals that would somehow facilitate the economy and otherwise allow citizens not to sink even more into the collapse of their own standard. So this is being rejected and nothing better and more concrete is being offered at the same time than answers are being given, opinions by the Government that are not referring to anything else, and we can expect what will be in the near future. That's one thing. Secondly, here's what you also mentioned is something that is very important and that our economies are constantly pointing out. We can't anymore, our Croatian economy can't stand this state-run apparatus that I've been through and since the reform of the administration's administration continues to explode by the number of new employees. So, as long as it's being said, on the one hand, it's about reforming the administration and on the other hand, the number of new employees and we haven't gotten anything on efficiency. So we have an army of lowly-paid and dissatisfied civil servants, officials, where that is how people of close government are fostered. The very note by the talking businessmen, the data presented by the president of the National Council for Anti-Corruption Corruption, Mr Jovanovic, is relevant data that disappears every year, is spent and belongs to our people's Croatian economy 6 billion kuna on bribery and corruption about it. And these are serious problems to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26245	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26246	I would continue in a series of these arguments you mentioned. It is, in fact, that in terms of crisis or crisis processes, the state must be not only particularly responsible but also particularly effective and to submit its part. In any event, the time scale and its significance must also be appropriate to the dimensions of the crisis or all that is happening. We're already coughing. And secondly, all the governments that have been developed that have been caught in the recession have actually strengthened appropriate measures and sought state measures, different forms of stimulation to improve new cycles of development. I hope that Croatia will do this and know how to appreciate and go also in the direction in which other countries are going. If we don't respect the weather, we'll be run over by time, but then we'll all be held accountable if we don't recognize the appropriate initiatives that could get us out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26247	Thank you very much. In addition, an esteemed colleague, Andrew Hebrang, applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26248	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. There are three similar topics before us, and I am sorry that they are not united because the debate would certainly be even more high-quality because these three laws intertwine like combined profit tax vessels, value added tax and contribute to the revenues of the state budget and cannot be talked about once without mentioning and not calculating the second or third. But as the debate went in this direction to discuss each particular debate I am here free to say something about this law that proposes certain changes to profit tax. The law is motivated by an alleged recession, why do I tell the alleged? Because the whole world hasn't announced that it's in recession. The recession is known for economic science for several months consecutively negative growth of the social product. No country has officially announced it yet. Therefore, it is necessary to pass laws not to enter the recession, I would say, rather than laws aimed at a state called recession. Even the global recession hasn't even been declared yet. Because the global recession in economic science occurs then according to generally accepted global definitions, when total economic movements decrease to a rise of less than 3%. And it hasn't been declared yet because it doesn't apply to most countries. And of course the third stage is depression, that's when some country's economy falls by less than 10%, so it falls by less than 10% or more than 10%. Unfortunately, this happened in one European country, in others it is not yet. So all the proposals that go to avoid recession are absolutely welcome, and so is this proposal. But what makes me think the proposal can't come to life? Because you need to get into an analysis of what a profit tax is? The profit tax is according to the definition represented by the Zagreb School of Economics and Management. The profit tax has three basic features. One is that it must be stimulating for the development of the economy and that is its main dimension. His second is fiscal, so it's income, it's less pronounced, and his third is social, it's least made. I'm talking about profit tax, unlike other taxes, like value added tax, which has quite the opposite characteristics. And from that aspect, we should watch what we do with the profit tax. Whatever profit tax we change, we tap into its most important characteristic, which is that it must be stimulating for the development of the economy. And that's why it's a recommendation for all economists, we can see it in all the textbooks when discussing a change in profit tax, first we need to do a calculation of what it means for the investor, only then calculating what it means for fiscal income, therefore, for the entry of money into the budget and then under C, which means on the social plan. Because it's a tax that certainly has no social purpose except at the level of fiscal income. In our 2009 budget, profit tax is represented by a pretty significant percentage, 10 billion 388 million kuna. So, we have him, I would say more than usual, significant for fiscal income as well. So we're a more mandatory team when we're discussing it exactly what's going to happen and what's going to have all the coincidences or consequences of getting into profit tax. Here it is therefore proposed that this proposal reduce the tax base to the profit achieved that is reinvested or maintained from the dividend payment. That's a good suggestion, but what's missing? He's missing an analysis which means reducing the tax base to the part that's being reinvested. We already have stimulating measures for everything that is being invested, and for what is being reinvested. Are we going to collect these incentives with this? If we want what are the consequences of his budget, which of him who invests, then, on the entrepreneur? It should also be said how much less in the budget of money it is then. Just count so many hundred million less. Or, let's say, when it's said that the base is reduced to a contained part of a profitable dividend. Whether that dividend she's holding is going to be invested or not. We didn't take that into account here, and that's terribly important, the dividend doesn't have to be reinvested whether you're taxing it or not. What is not good is that we increase the tax base under this law, it says, by increasing the retained profits from earlier periods. So that's where more money would go into the budget. How much more money would go in? We don't know it's not calculated and what would be the negative side of it? In order for an entrepreneur who now has to retroactively pay a tax on his retained profits to give up on his company's further economic development. He's no longer stimulated. So what I'm missing here, in order for the real sector to react to that, the economy sector. Would he react to this by increasing investment or reducing production? Would he have saved that money, that's where the budget would've lost it, used it to buy a repromation, to buy new technologies, or to buy a 18-metre yacht? There are estimates that are fatal to touching profit tax because it can also be a negative result. This means that we have provided him with a higher profit, a state budget less or less. We're missing a calculation of what it is and how it might happen. The main goal, therefore, was to in some ways stimulate production in the Croatian economy. That's how I realized these changes. We have more than any European country stimulating law. I don't think our profit tax is somewhere in the lowest category, it's somewhere in the middle of a European tax, but by making it easier on profit taxes, by stimulating measures compared to the Tax Tax Act we're certainly the first in Europe. Let me remind you. We have laws that affect profit tax in areas of special state concern. So you have a law that says who won't pay anything there, we have a zero rate, we have a 5%, 7%, 8%, 10%, 15%. We have the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. In this law, the tax is reduced by half, so it is 10%, in some cases 5% in some 15%. We have further laws that reduce the profit tax if it is invested in knowledge, if it is invested in development, if it is invested in science. Let's say the 2006 Investment Encouragement Act, depending on the level of investment, reduces the state's income tax down to zero. So we have zero percent rates, 3%, 7% and 10%. When we propose amendments to profit tax laws, then we have to calculate all of this as a final result, so it doesn't hurt. So, uh... or primarily do not harm any entry into any calculated value of the budget, whether revenue or expenditure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I think that when you suggest hitting a profit tax or in one of the following proposals, hitting a value added tax must be a model simulation. Without that, big mistakes happen and we've done them and your government has done them and other countries have done them. We learn from our experiences when we enter the tax, make a simulation of the model and say, yes, here we took from the state budget 2 billion kuna 400 million, someone claims it's less. So just because we have different visions as much as is taken from the budget, it's justified that my request is to make a financial simulation of the new model and to say exactly how much we took from the state budget. We calculated 2 billion and 400, the government calculated. I calculated 2 billion and 500 by my calculations. Maybe it's a billion and 800 as much as one of you said on the left-hand side of the hall. No matter how much it is. We have to say who's going to make up for it in the budget? Because if we take out a billion or two-and-a-half billion how the bill shows from the state budget, then we have to say. And then health care goes 2 and a half billion less or we won't pay the army or the police or we won't have a social minimum or we won't have for civil servants and tenants. We're going to have to make up for that two and a half billion. So I can finish. It is good and the proposal is welcome to discuss tax reconstruction, it is always welcome especially during the period when we are preparing for recession. The whole world is getting ready and we're getting ready, but I think all discussions should be financially supported, calculated with all positive and negative values, and in that case I don't rule out that this proposal could be accepted. This is not how I dare vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26249	Thank you very much. We have six applications for replication. First of all, distinguished counterpart Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's almost amazing how much power and force he's trying to convince us in the SDP that there is no crisis in Croatia, that there is no recession in Croatia, and here today Mr. Šuker is asking Mr. Vidosevic how he hasn't been saying that we're in crisis for five months, but he's just saying that now. The crisis did not knock on the door for Croatia, but opened them wide. The evidence for this is stagnation of economic activity, decline in industrial production, decline in personal consumption and decline in real income for citizens. These are four clear, precise arguments why we can say that Croatia is in recession. But it's not a problem that HDZ doesn't want to admit that we're in recession. The biggest problem is that you don't know what to do when we're faced with recession, and inaction leads us to depression. And the most tragic thing is that nothing seems to happen because local elections are waiting, because the budget is made up to redistribute political corruption where the government wants to win and directly harm all Croatian citizens. Here, dear gentlemen, in this respect, the biggest problem is the lack of understanding of the anti-recession package that the SDP offers to this Assembly in the interest of protecting production of production sites and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26251	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished colleague Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26252	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague, I didn't say we weren't in a crisis at all. I was just saying we're not in recession. And why aren't we in recession? Because I've defined what's in the economy is a crisis, which is a recession, which is a global recession and what's the scariest form. It's depression. And that's what your textbooks say. You also have on the Internet, you don't have to bother to list books. We're not in recession. We're in crisis. Do you need to panic like Mr. Vidosevic and order “urbi et orbi” for 10 years you will not get out of this crisis. There's an excuse if you want to stop investors. Why is Mr. Nadan Vidosevic trying to stop investors? He certainly has his own interest, but that statement is not smart for whoever's responsible and who's running the government. The one who doesn't run it can say that. That's why I think excessive statements are counterproductive. We should admit the crisis has knocked on the Croatian door, because it is our door, the door of the world. If he's in the world, he has to be with us. Let's get ready for what we're gonna do. The government has said multiple times we have projects, we follow the situation, when we need to activate the part by part of that program. Surely, there will be opportunities before that, and you can be sure of the public debate when the time comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26253	Thank you very much. Next comes the replica of his counterpart, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26254	Here, colleague Hebrang has been trying to convince us that we should trust him, not to trust, for example, one economic institute. We did not say what production and production was like in last year in Croatia in the last quarter. That's what the Institute of Economics said. The Economic Institute should objectively objectify the indicators about it, and the Economic Institute said we were in recession. I hope that the prime minister will remain another day, two in the European Union, and I am sure that as he managed to convince you, he will succeed and convince his colleagues there to end the declaration of recession, because Germany did so, France did. Because according to what you believe in him, not the Institute of Economics, so should they. Germany certainly isn't in recession and it's crazy to throw away all these powers I don't know how many 200 billion, 50 billion euros for banks, 50 for what, 50 for when they're just not in recession. What the SDP suggests at this point is to reduce the base, the basis for the tax on profit, so that what will cause your inaction, which is to reduce the tax base, doesn't happen. Because if you're going to win, you're going to keep winning, you're going to get an untaxable profit... Reinvest will then go after the job preserve and create new jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you tax your profits, then you'll have what you had in 12 months, which is that by 25%, the number of unemployed is increased, so you'll get the tax on the profits you pulled into the state budget to pay the fees through the Employment Office. So we're essentially different. We are in favour of saving jobs, and you are in favour of withdrawing the money into the state budget, so that by political criteria you redistribute it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26255	The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26256	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you mentioned an economic institute. There may be two economic institutes in Croatia. I heard a statement from a representative of the economic institute that defined what recession is, so he said that's when you're two months consecutive in a negative increase in gross social product. Croatia thank God and thank this government is not in yet, so I call on the Economic Institute. By their definition, we're not in recession yet, but that's totally secondary. We need to prepare ourselves for a recession in that I absolutely agree with you. But by causing negative emotions, negative visions or Nadan Vidosevic's prognosis, you will not help Croatia to stay out of recession. Foreign capital stands at the door. The investment last year was $3 and a half billion the largest since the existence of the Croatian state. Now the capital has stopped and is waiting. If he listens to you and Vidosevic, he will stay waiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26257	Next to the replica is the application of a distinguished colleague of MP Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26258	Well, I'm glad to see that you've adopted the economic categories so well and a little bit of a lesson in what recession is and what's the crisis. Well, you think we're in crisis. We're not in recession. I don't care if we're in a crisis or in a recession if the problems are huge in the country. If we have three months in a row of declines in industrial production, then there is a decline in economic growth, a decline in social gross product because at the same time, not as investment falls, not as production falls, but as consumption falls, and these are all elements that actually affect economic growth. We're in an alleged recession, you say. Well, that's why we can't wait, but we need to predict the situation in advance and react to it and remove the causes. I already said today, the president of our government says I have measures, but I won't tell you. So what is it, what kind of state-leading, what kind of policy-making is that? What kind of economy is this in one country? You're saying the income tax is the least social measure, the social character has. I agree with you, but not in Croatia, because profit tax or profit tax if it is paid, you do not pay a tax at all. Well, it's a social measure for those who own capital. Mr. Hebrang, there's no time for evaluations, no evaluations, no analysis, no budgets, no calculations. As much as the state budget will be missing, it is time for measures and financial support to the economy. Countries that are members of the European Monetary Union are authorised to have a greater deficit than the monetary union has so far had the 3% limit. And we boast that we will have zero, and at the same time 3 billion kunas in 2007 have not been recorded through business books in the state budget. So what's our deficit? No one knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26259	The answer is not a replica. A fellow representative of Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26260	Thank you very much. Comrade Zgrebec, you don't have to be nervous. I didn't really mean to offend anyone... No, I'm just nervous when I hear false information, and today I'm already immune to anxiety because I've heard so many. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, in your replica, I don't know what her point was, you said you were giving us lessons. I don't think so. Well, you're an expert in economics, not me. I'm a trained economist, I've only been following the macroeconomics for 20 years, and I'm only a ten-year private entrepreneur. But in those 10 years of private entrepreneurship in production, direct production, I learned a lot more than I thought I'd learn. Well, I speak as a small entrepreneur, and I speak as a small representative of knowledge from the economy, and as such, I can tell you, I'm never the president of this government, and I'm big in memory, never told the Prime Minister I have a program, but I won't tell you. You made that up. ... No, he said we're creating a program, we're monitoring events, the government is monitoring events, there's also an economic council of experts that includes members of your party who are following. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And when the time comes for a measure to be applied, then you will find out about it, and you will be able to dispute. That's what the Prime Minister of this government said. Or you didn't listen to the radio show that day. If this government had done what needed to be done, you've seen it in your budget. Until the last minute, the budget was adjusted to events in the world, from minute to minute, as we discussed the budget, stocks fell on the London Stock Exchange. I followed the Tokyo Stock Exchange. That's what I told you that day in the debate. Since we started arguing, by the time I got to the word, shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange have fallen by 1.8%. In such dynamic events, the government adjusted its budget, the entry-exit side precisely to prepare for a threatening recession. So don't worry. The government has a program, and when it does, they'll discuss it in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26261	Keep going. Followed by a replica of an esteemed colleague, Luke Denone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26262	Mr. Vice President. So I have a replica of Mr. Hebrang's exposure. Look, I'm neither angry nor nervous, so I hope I don't piss you off, and you won't be nervous. But, well, I've remained surprised first of all, or astounded if I can say so, by the ease of saying that in times where we live in Croatia today we're not in recession, but maybe we're in crisis, so now we're having second thoughts and waiting for an economic institute or some kind of linguistic experts to tell us what the definition of the recession itself is or what the definition of the crisis is. Obviously, Mr. Hebrang, that you and I certainly don't live in the same environment, that we don't meet the same neighbors, friends or acquaintances who got fired, who with the pay they have can't buy as much as they need to support their family. You see, they don't care about the definition of crisis, or recession, they kind of already feel it, at least I've heard it. Or maybe they told me something wrong. Of course, this bill that we are offering today is not a rescue proposal, and it certainly cannot solve for itself the recession in which we are now, but it should be in a package with some other anti-recession measures that we are proposing, but we expect, of course, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia says that we are in recession and that we are offering this Parliament and Croatian citizens a way out of this, let's say the crisis, and you say there is no recession. You say it takes time to create a simulation, but unfortunately we don't have enough time, because the crisis or recession has certainly already taken a deep step in Croatia, regardless of the Tokyo Stock Exchange my neighbor is not touching at all on any of the issues. And we said and we talked in previous discussions, I apologize, here's just one second, that the businessmen were consulted and that they were asked. One of the businessmen who's probably been consulted and asked, I don't know what he's asking, but I'm reading his answer. ... No, I won't mention the chamber. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, a businessman who was probably wondering, said what it seems to me, should not wait for much to be calculated, that Croatia can overcome the crisis with the right anti-recession measures. However, we lack a strong leadership that can bear the burden of crisis, the current is unable to take responsibility for the necessary but painful moves, so instead of determined and responsible moves, it comes to stakeholders. That man was sitting where he was asked, this is the answer, I don't know what he was wondering. Obviously, we need to do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26263	Thank you very much. Apparently, it's part of the replica and some other set, but I'm asking that this replica be answered by the distinguished colleague Hebrang. He's already called.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26264	Thank you very much, colleague Denon, for this replica of yours. From her, for the sake of time, I'll only be able to give two answers. As for this gentleman you quoted, I don't know who he is, he says he needs determined and strong leadership. Well, it's a leadership run by the state now, with our coalition partners. If this leadership could get the state out of the crisis in 2003 when 6.4% of the government budget deficit was inherited... The only Croatian product in 2003 was 6.4% of the government budget deficit that multiplys, today is zero and will remain zero, but you never know how it happened, so now I'm replicating. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If that leadership could come from 6.4 to 1.2 and plan a zero deficit for the crisis year we're in, then they'll also know how to solve the problems of this colleague of yours. As for your company and my company, you said you were hanging out with people who got fired, so you pulled my tongue. I still trust statistics, as much as some people don't like it. The Employment Office gave the latest report for December 2008. Compared to November, there were 2.2 fewer employees in Croatia. But compared to a year earlier, 7.7 employees more. Which means that when you look at unemployment data, consider that December is a time when fewer people work than in July. And compared to last year, it's 7.7% higher. Is that a recession? No, I don't. It's just a threat that we won't keep that positive trend of power when the global recession spills over to us, but believe that we have measures and an account for it as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26265	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Zdenko Franic reported next to the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26266	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Hebrang. You said in your detention presentation that it could detimise entrepreneurs, work responsibly and make profits, and here I would point out the example of the most responsible companies in the Republic of Croatia, for example, Lura, after being taken over by Lachtalis, now herself for several years, or for 2 years how much Lure's profits are being held and reinvested, so for example, they bought Kim Karlovac, saved one bankrupt dairy industry and secured these people jobs. Regarding recession and theoretical considerations that are predictors or indicators of recession, along with what counterpart Jovanovic said, I would also list at least a few economic criteria that point to recession, for example the movement of interest in relation to the principal, employment and so on. And now whether we're in recession or crisis, that depends on perception, but in that context, I would just read the headlines that have appeared on the Internet in the last half hour. For example, the pension system ran out of 6 billion kuna due to the drop in 2008; registration of new cars in Croatia fell by half; employers ask the government to open their eyes, urgently bring anti-recession measures, so the Croatian Employers' Association asked for it today and already notorious Vidosevic's black prospectus is who says we will leave the crisis in less than 10 years, lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26267	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished colleague Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26268	My friend, you quoted the Internet portals and their headlines and I never said they were wrong. The fact is that the inflow to the budget is less than a year ago, but the fact is that it's such that it didn't go through that recession. The fact is that budget expenditures are more social this year than last year. That is why, and that is why we have already made the first step to avoid recession, that the economic crisis that is certainly going to spill over to Croatia does not affect the socially sensitive layers. Read the budget and you will see that 2009 is the most social budget, which translates into the most expenditure on social items of all the budgets since the creation of the Croatian state. And that's the preparation for a crisis that will surely follow. As for the title of Internet portals, I, while you were speaking on three portals, placed a title that says this, Nadan Vidosevic gives a black forecast, but it's not a black forecast, it's black humor for me because a man who speaks like that, like all of you mentioned, must have some interest in saying so. That interest can be economic, which I don't believe, can be political, which I believe. Worst if we go out of our own political interest to disrupt the stability of the economy. That's what needs to be avoided, which was the message of my speech and what I'm undermining. Let's be realistic, let's not be fatalists because fatalism has a negative impact on the development of the economy, and today we're afraid we were more fatalists than realists. As far as I'm concerned, I have another 30 seconds, you've proposed a capital gains tax at a time when Crobex went 10, 12% up, and where you're getting that profit today when Crobex's been going down for weeks, and not just Crobex, but all the indices on all the world's stock exchanges. So, you can see where your shot would hit, as empty as any of your other shots.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26269	Thank you very much. And the sixth application for a replica, fellow representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26270	Thank you very much. Whether it is a recession or a crisis, it would certainly be good for Croatia to take anti-recession measures, which we agree on and probably should not be moved. Secondly, on several occasions, there has been an increase in the rate of reinvested profits because it could be misused to buy yachts, cars and so on. So they invest in yachts those who deal with charters, and in cars those who do car transport and taxi, but invest in their own, reinvested profit means invest in their activity, not in something third or fourth. And thirdly, if the problem with this law is just a simulation of measures and therefore assumptions and consequences that would lead to these measures, so we'll prepare it for another reading, so you'll have the whole picture on paper and I think then you'll definitely be able to decide to support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26271	Thank you very much. We're done with these replicas. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear fellow MP Željko Turk. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Secretary of State. Well, there's a lot of time gone by today to elaborate this topic and let me briefly say for a part of the development of the relationship of these 2.4 billion, which, in terms of our thinking and our evolution, we're going to miss the budget for this year if we make this bill as such, relative to its profits. What is inevitable is the fact, although someone here mentioned that it may be a fire measure, it can't and what could possibly get certain effects is the time that is coming, and that's the next period. It may be 2010, 2011, 2012, in that form or in another form, and when I talk about a year called 2010 then except for one small measure, we can hardly talk. I agree with my colleague Mršić who said that at the moment of new investment there is certainly how direct and indirect profits exist, not only through VAT, but through the new employment of companies working on it, Croatian companies and companies, through the newly created value in these companies and through the new profits of those who are working on it. This is true and this is the fact in my area is that at this point it intensively, but that in one such new investment, there has been a moment of new construction, new plants, new halls, new machines should pass over time and a prerequisite that is the creation of good and quality institutional frameworks that have sometimes been, and good work has not been achieved so far, and when we talk about a time period within a few months, and we are talking about 2010. So, the exact fact is that every tax reduction at some point must have certain effects, but it is a matter of time-limit that can be brought in and it is undeniable that it should be found in this year 2.4 billion substitutes that will be realized in another position, where we will either deny someone or through these effects that he said we will also get some positive things. Now that I'm talking about it, it's been said in every new investment that only capital issues assure you. No one has mentioned here that in a serious and quality investment, except for the fact that quality and real investment would be made where additional financial resources are needed, bank assets, because I get as such sometimes, but good work is not enough to enter into self-investment, which means that the total capital amount is often and most often greater than the profits achieved but that certainly is welcome. And now we come to this very creation of that foundation of capital, we come to the other one. What this Croatian government has done or when we talk about certain ministries has done or done, to enable quality investment at a given time, and what is the essence of this law's message. This specifically means that through certain spatial plans as a prerequisite, through the government's measures of forming business zones, co-financing of capital and investment procedures in the sewerage, in the construction of roads, we create the possibility that new investment cycles could be launched at some point. So, I'm talking about a time shift. And after that comes the moment which is related to the moment of issuing the building permits itself which... pre-conditions in our offices, and partly this Croatian government has created a new form of decentralisation where it has brought down part of the business and tasks of state offices to smaller levels. So where she has given powers to large cities to conduct their own release procedures necessary for major projects in order to create new conditions for faster and more quality investment. The fact is that today is about 300-thousand business zones that are in different stages of investment, in different stages of new employment both through work and then through the creation of newly created value after such projects are completed and entered as a new power, both through profit tax and through new employment of income tax, communal compensation and other various forms that create budget figures both in the state budget and then in the budget of local self-government, so cities and municipalities. Right now less, but to have more tomorrow, but when we talk about the moment of difficult economic expectations is economic activity today, then the question is what is it that we are doing today and in this time during this month of 2009 in order to make it as high as possible and within the framework of the budget and then the economists made that step so that the world and global problems in the economy are less surprising or that in some way we have a response to them when and at what point and in which form we can best and know. It is certain that today at the beginning of this year, and it has shown that the budget is being drawn up at the end of last year, we did not know what and how much in economic growth we expect both in global world events, both here and in Europeans. And certainly Croatia is not a state that is closed under a glass bell, but is subject to all these events, and I have no doubt that in the time ahead we will find the best ways and measures for the further course and management of the economy in a quality and operational way. But when we talk about the state budget that we have balanced items about how the subject of profit tax, its charge and discharge, and then also about these other topics that are subject to the next law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26273	Thanks a lot, buddy. We have a report of an correction of an incorrect allegation, colleague Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26274	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's a fellow Turk, in his debate, said, and it's incorrect that these 2.4 billion that would be missing from our legal proposal should make a kind of a difference on the expenditure side of the budget. So it would be mandatory to take someone to keep the budget balanced. Therefore, the state has a obligation to also take care of the income side, not only of the expenditure, so some state is concerned about the collection of revenue. And from the State Audit report, we heard that last year the customs administration did not charge 3.5 billion kuna. So let the state worry about the customs charge for those revenues, so that's a lot more than these missing 2.4 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26275	Thank you very much. We also have three applications for replication. First of all, colleague Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26276	Well, fellow Turk, I could agree with you if that were the case. Or that 2 billion 400, and everything else will be the same. However, the measure aims to reduce income from profit tax but to increase VAT revenue, remain stable income or increase income from income tax because jobs will be preserved and new jobs will be created. To do other things that would contribute that some other taxes would at least not be reduced. If this is not adopted, it is quite certain at this time that the number of employees in Croatia should be reduced. What his colleague Hebrang said was not true. So, the 12th month of last year compared to the 12th month of 2007, 25% more unemployed were registered at the Employment Office. Therefore, the number of employees is decreasing and the number of unemployed is increasing. It's a reduction, of course, not a reduction in the state budget, but a budget of the units of local self-government, but I guess we care about not reducing the revenue of the budget as a whole, not just the state budget. So we repeat our bill of law goes towards reducing the tax base for profit tax but to preserve the base of other taxes. If this is not adopted, the base will be reduced, there will be fewer VAT payers, there will be fewer payers of income tax, there will be fewer of those who pay corporate tax, there will be fewer of those who pay various rents, contributions etc. And ultimately, it's going to be less in the state budget, and it's going to be much more than 2 billion and 400 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26277	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is distinguished colleague Željko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26278	My colleague Mršić and I understand each other very well, given that everyone in his town leads in one piece and politics that is related to both work and employment, he has the happiness of doing great systems that are huge and certainly are positions and comments with his knowledge. But the unquestionable fact is that the new investment has a time-right and that it has to pass a certain distance in order for it to function as such. This is an indisputable fact, therefore, with respect for his words. But I'm taking the opportunity to say one more thing. To our businessmen and investors, and I don't know if you'll remember, if it's so familiar to you. It is true that, in addition to what this financial force and capital need, two, three important things are needed, and that is their legal and political security. I mean not the political party of one and the other that is in power but the continuity of the law both tax and all those who give opportunity and who give quality power to those who invest that there will be no significant change in time... a cycle that every major investment has a certain time cycle of half a year, a year or more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our business centre is an investment that lasts seven years and weighs 2 million and it is very important for investors to know what kind of political team they have in the cities, in the municipalities they come to. It's very common and crucial to them. And secondly, when we talk about their overall desire, then the question is whether in this area in cooperation and very often they are very good quality to respect local opportunities and hire local people and as such, it is that engine generator of new and future development. Still, I absolutely stand on the fact that directing, reinvestment and tax reduction on profits and when reinvesting can have a positive effect through a certain period of time but certainly more in the years that come and certainly need economic... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26279	Thank you very much. Next to the replica, a colleague, Maras, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26280	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Comrade Turk, there are many times in the HDZ order that we did not know what the scale of this crisis would be. I've watched over the past few days and months a lot and CNN and all the foreign news. I haven't heard that argument from any government in Europe or the world. And I watched Prime Minister Brown bring rescue measures to the UK, or measures for the recession period. I was watching the other day and Mr. Obama's plan, which was also presented at CNN, and no one pulled out that he didn't know. I guess we're the only ones in the world who have an argument that we weren't aware of what the scale of this crisis would be. On the other hand, when you talk about the budget and the 2.4 billion kuna. This budget not to be balanced, we are, we have a deficit planned. It could have been unbalanced but developed that for the past five years the HDZ government has acted responsibly and made reforms that could lead to major savings in the state budget that we could today be prepared for this crisis and have money for this and for all of these other measures that the SDP proposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26281	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of a fellow Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26282	Thank you. I'll be very brief and answer very pragmaticly to Mr. Maras. The criteria for our entry into the EU say that we can only have a balance of payments deficit to a certain percentage and that is one of the criteria and criteria for joining the EU of the Republic of Croatia and Germany itself, which is one of the essential factors of the European economy, policy has given us in the past month or two days to change its power in the country. The comment is too high.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26283	Thank you very much. And a third application for the replica, dear colleague of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26284	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Comrade Turk, I agree with some of your thoughts in your debate and I can understand you, but I cannot understand that in an attempt to defend the view that a bill like this should be rejected, of course, and all other laws that will follow that have the possibility of being anti-recessionally simply do not understand. I have a feeling you qualify us as mean prophets who are bad guys and here on this side are the good guys who defend something. Let me just remind you that if we're in a crisis, we're not in a crisis, are we getting to the status that we need to kill a messenger like we do now and we need to kill Hopena because he told the bad news to the public and the people. This package of laws, if I remember correctly, we were directed at the 10th month last year just when it might have been necessary to react through the budget to see these measures in the budget already. So, four months have passed, this is the second month and we're still in the phase that we don't know if it's a crisis or recession. We just need to calculate, and we just have to simulate. It's not good that we're only at that stage and we're not mean, you know, I'm not glad that we're in a crisis or recession like you're probably not glad that we're in a crisis or recession, so we're going to try to get those two terms in line somehow. But to try to do something we offered it in the 10th month when it was time for the budget to react profitablely and cost-effectively to what is waiting for us today and not us to come to the stage to just count and to simulate something. That's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26285	Thank you. The answer to the replica of a fellow Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26286	Very short. However, I absolutely have no reason to act... I try to use in my discussions my 15-year or 20-year experience in the economy from the ordinary worker to the manager, experience in the police management of the city, and now here's this assembly experience. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when it comes to the month of the tenth and the proposals, we are aware that both the 10th and the 11th and the 12th months were when globally, therefore, both on the world and on the European political and economic scene were both changes and changes and unfortunately negative trends. And that exactly the fact that the budget itself was adopted as soon as possible, in my deep conviction, was appropriate for the moment and at the moment we are in, and in this way we react best and in this budget creation in accordance with that moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26287	Thank you very much. We're done with these replicas. Now comes the debate of the distinguished fellow Stazic. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The thing is a little absurd, we're representatives of the citizens of this country here. They chose us here to protect their interests. And what can they hear here? Oversmarting about whether there is a crisis or recession or depression in Croatia. As if the correct answer to that question would help them greatly. As if it would help those who lost their jobs today, those who lost him yesterday and those who lost him tomorrow. Dr. Hebrang's comforting words to have a brilliant government won't help them. They lost their jobs and the question is if they'll find him again. In such conditions as Croatia is currently in the eyes of citizens, they are rightly directed at the government. They expect the government to do something. To make some moves, to get the car out of the fungi. They've got eyes in the government, but there's nothing to see. The government is silent, the government is acting like there's nothing going on with these citizens, the government like these citizens aren't even concerned at all. Then the SDP comes forward with 24 anti-recession measures, 25, when the government has not already reported, we here elected representatives of these citizens, we are trying to help these citizens. How can citizens be helped? They can only be helped in one way to help the economy. One of those anti-recession measures is this law. Leave the economy more money, not take it through the profit tax. Let him reinvest, keep existing jobs, eventually open up some new ones if he can. This, however, does not concern the parliamentary majority, and this bill of law, one of our 25 measures refuses to beautify reality. It's not a recession, it's a crisis, the government is brilliant, the government is thinking, the government is following, the government is going to do this, the government is going to do this. When will the government, what will the government say about it? The debt of citizens is enormous, in Croatia there is almost no family that has at least one mortgage loan. Now people started losing jobs mass, in all industries, how they would repay those loans, how they would pay off credit rates when they lost their jobs. In any case, these wars are rising due to the skating of the exchange rate, they will increase once the interest rates announced by the bankers are increased. So these people are gonna lose their houses, without their apartments, they're gonna end up on the street. So we're trying to prevent that from happening with our 25 anti-recession measures, that, to protect these people from becoming homeless tomorrow. This parliamentary majority refuses with a sentence is not so bad, the government is monitoring, the government is watching. And what's he watching? And how long will he be watching? He's watching these people who lose their jobs every day. So to what did this government address them, then by what measure? Why are people, why people fall into these debt crises, why will they lose their assets when banks activate those mortgages. They fell into this because of a lack of faith, the government promised, i.e. HDZ and coalition partners and wrote in the coalition agreement as follows, quote: "The government of the Republic of Croatia in its term of 2007/2011. They will implement the policy and the necessary measures to ensure stable economic development with a steady growth of GDP, that is what people believed. I guess that's why they voted for HDZ. They believed it would be so. They've been cheated, it's not like that. There's no constant GDP growth, just the opposite, there's no one, there's going to be zero, if there's even zero. If it wasn't what it was in '99. ahead of the coalition government's arrival, it was a negative growth rate. That'll be it. That's the kind of country they left in '99. That's how they'll leave it before the next parliamentary elections. In recession. So this is about a classic scam by making false promises. I promise you economic growth, I promise you a better standard, you're in charge, you get a loan, there's nothing there, you can't get your credit back on the street. It's the government's program, it's the government's action towards the citizens. The recession or crisis, according to Dr. Hebrang, in Croatia, which is currently not the echo of this world recession, will only come. That's what's waiting for us. This fall of standards, this collapse of living conditions, the reduction of real wages, this is due to the five-year activity of this government, the catastrophic action. All of this will be even worsened by the global recession and its consequences. If this collapse of the standard of the day wasn't the result of the global crisis, it was very simple to prove it. In the last five years, only bread has accumulated 57% not now that the global recession has begun, but in those five years. Just bread. 57%. It's a picture of the government's activity. It's a ID. This measures efficiency. How much did this government do for its citizens? Because governments don't exist because of themselves. They exist with one goal, to give citizens a better life every day. Says the government in its opinion are expensive these measures. That's 2.5, only this law 2.5 billion kuna. And the Council's assessment, the National Council for Corruption, that six billion kunas disappear annually in corruption in this country. That's not expensive for the government, that's not what he's trying to fight. Instead, HDZ is prone to members in that council to attack the president of the council when it presents corruption data. Members of the Anti-Corruption Council shall attack the President of the Council when it presents corruption data. If the government didn't care about getting rid of corruption, so that's clear from two examples that would give 500. Nothing has been resolved yet in the case of the purchase of a truck where 15 million kuna disappeared in the morh, the cost of lobbying in two embassies in the world where 10 million kuna went missing. There's 15, there's 10, there's 7, what the government cares about. For trucks, reconnaissances last exactly four years, reconnaissances four years. We had to refer to this House a proposal to establish an investigative commission because no one is interested in this country. The President of the Republic has been warned ten times. He also warns of this spending on embassies. Who cares about 10 million kunas missing from the budget. But here's every kuna you should invest in the economy, and that's a lot to you, that's not it. Well, you'd rather spend it on lobbying. One of these lobbyist companies in America is a husband and wife, an old couple, running a divorce office. They had lobbying money for Croatia. It's scary. Look, there's no government of anti-recession measures, that's clear. The SDP is proposing 25, but the only real anti-recession measure would be to replace this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26289	Thank you very much. We have reports of two corrections to an incorrect quote. First of all, dear colleague Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26290	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, you have again provided incorrect information about unemployment in Croatia. In order not to have to prove much, www.hzz.hr/doc.like.slide4. Here it is, the Conference of the Croatian Employment Institute since 16 January 2009 refers to data on unemployment in December 2008 and says this: in December 2008, compared to December 2007, there were fewer unemployed 14,029 or 5.5%. You're welcome to the recession.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26291	Thank you very much. We've got another report of a rectification. Dear colleague Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26292	I'm sorry, Mr. Stazic, that I wasn't in this room during your entire exposure, it would probably be a lot to correct. But I'm gonna fix that part I heard. When we got the truck, nothing went missing. The Ministry of Defence's budgetary position for the procurement included 35 million kuna. 35 million kunas have been purchased, trucks are being used there in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Unlike the 5600 missiles that mysteriously disappeared from the Armed Forces warehouse during the term of office of the coalition government, which you are not looking for an investigative commission, about an object in which you are absolutely not interested. So, you're absolutely wrong, you haven't looked at any of the files, you have no idea about this subject, but in one harsh and vile way you're politicizing. Everyone's talking in the same voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26293	Thank you. We have five applications for a replica. Wait a minute, let's be patient. Everyone's gonna get their turn. Dear colleague Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26294	Well, fellow Stazic, I've heard from you, and I've read it these days. He says that 1 out of 24 of your recession measures is that you're asking banks to postpone the loan for those workers who are out of a job. Then I must remind you that, first of all, this measure is not originally a measure of SDP, but that you stole it from 2001 to which it can testify, I think I saw the former Labour Minister, Social Care here, when I started this initiative towards banks and when the Croatian Banking Association accepted this initiative, and together with your minister then we conducted such an action of talks with banks to make it happen, etc. So it would be good if you mentioned some of your measures to specify maybe even cars or to specify since they date such measures, so it's not yours. And as for the rest of you, you know these whole social regrets of yours, I'll read you some of the "Free Dalmatia" papers. It says, in 2001, the main features in the economic and social areas were, so Croatia's largest registered unemployment rate was 386 thousand unemployed. So he says, banking institutions in Croatia in 2001, clearly, have been resolved with the savings role of citizens, sold to foreign banks, etc. So he says, the pay base is down 7% for civil servants, tenants. So he says, a neoliberal model of social policy is being implemented based on the restrictions of social existential labour rights. Well, then we've got the Evening List. It says, a review of the State budget in 2002, and it says, the charge of the state budget is also conditional on the introduction of new taxes this year, so the taxes were introduced, etc. Now I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26295	Time, colleague Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26296	Since you suddenly became so socially sensitive after six years, and when you were in a position, you were in power, the same people, the workers, who are so full of your mouth, you obviously treated as a stepmother and treated her stepmomically. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26297	Replication response. Dear fellow MP Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26298	First, if you insist on copyright for this proposal, we have nothing against it. This dates back to the time of your activity when you were still taking care of the citizens and their lives as a unionist before you entered the political waters when it obviously doesn't matter at all to you now in that party where you act. As you said yourself, counterpart Vidovic obviously accepted this initiative because the SDP accepts good initiatives regardless of who they come from. Unlike you and your party who do not accept good initiatives even when they are in the interest of citizens, and you are elected here to act in their interest. We are here now discussing not this, not a delay or a moratorium on the return of credit to citizens who lose their jobs, but a legal proposal from the SDP on profit tax. However, this moratorium measure on the repayment of loans by Dr Hebrang will not be necessary, as he claims that no one in Croatia has lost their job and is presenting statistics on this. I hope those who lost their jobs today heard him, that those who lost their jobs yesterday would know how to appreciate his commitment to their interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26299	Next comes the replica of distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stazić, you spoke of one of the most significant anti-recession measures that is long-term, which is a struggle with corruption, and you cited 6 billion kuna data as to how yearly it is estimated to cost the economy Croatian, corruption. So you see when a man in one session of the National Council presents such data then he is declared a sensationalist and populist, and I am a man who is now in politics, otherwise I'm a doctor. And you know in medicine there's one concept of medicine based on evidence. Well, as a politician, I'm fighting for a fact-based policy, and these six billion kunas are the facts of that economic institute that Professor Hebrang advocates so many times today. So Croatia costs corruption six billion, and the six billion are certainly included in those 15 million kunas that have not been lost anywhere, but have spent more than they should have on the purchase of Mr. Roncevic when instead of 76 trucks for 38 million kuna, 39 million trucks were purchased for 35 million kuna. Well, that's how HDZ fights recession or the rest of the Croatian Privatisation Fund that's never been abolished, and it's promised to be. So then their president rents a car of 300 horses, 3000 cubic meters, drives on 4 wheels and pays 17000 kuna because it is known that such a car model is best for driving at the fifth speed in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26301	Replication response, fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26302	A colleague of Jovanovic's very short time. Don't be surprised, don't be surprised that you were attacked as president of the National Council for Combating Corruption when you present corruption data, when you present data on the damage that corruption is inflicting in this country. Don't be surprised you need to know who these attacks are coming from. They come from members of the Anti-Corruption Council elected by the HDZ to this council. Obviously not to fight corruption, but to prevent this fight against corruption as much as possible. And that's why they call you a sensationalist, and that's why they call you a politician. I know you, and I'm sure those attacks won't discourage you like they won't discourage the entire SDP to point to corruption that affects the highest peaks of power in which millions disappear. Or millions, as in the affair of getting trucks, are wasted needlessly, in which laws are passed to those who are HDZ sponsors, laws are passed for them. Therefore, the fight against corruption would be one of the best anti-recession measures if this government and HDZ would be politically willing to lead the fight. But their political will is to prevent that fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26303	Further application for replica, distinguished colleague Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26304	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Stazic. It is very important to insist on the fact that the current situation in Croatian society and the Croatian economy is not the product of any global crisis, for many years, and this has been demonstrated by the research of Caritas and the Centre for the Promotion of the Social Science of the Church that in Croatia 1/3 households live in poverty. Not since this year, my colleague Stazic, not from the crisis globally, but 18 years is more than that. That one half of the citizens or households in Croatia cannot cover their monthly needs, and even more devastating is the fact that 720,000 citizens live in poverty, and only 16% of them receive some social assistance from the state. Comrade Stazic, this is not the product of a global crisis. It is a product of incompetence of the Croatian government. It's a policy product since '93. of the year, of the so-called Stabilisation programme in Croatia and conversion and privatisation in Croatia. And if we are talking about money and jobs and designing new jobs, then it should be taken into account that in the last five years, during the HDZ government, dozens of state agencies and institutions, institutes, and the number of public administration employees has not been reduced. Such concerns under the alleged signs eat money, public money that can be invested in designing jobs of production character so that they can be competitive on something on the European market. Therefore, it is very important, not for HDZ, for Croatia's citizens to say where the situation is in Croatia and why the situation is in Croatia. The effects of the European crisis that no one controls in Croatia await us. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26305	Replication response, fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26306	But fellow Leko, what's it worth to interpret? You're right there, but what it's worth to interpret when Dr. Hebrang claims to the citizens of this country that in 2003 when they took power, they took over the crisis. He claims it to them today. That the citizens of 2003 lived worse than they do today. That they could buy less than I can buy today. That's what they're saying here. Citizens are made crazy, as if they didn't know what their wages were and how much their purchasing power was. As if they don't know, Dr. Hebrang must explain to them now from the assembly benches that they found it creepy in 2003, and now they find it fantastic and that the government is brilliant, the prime minister in particular, and that they care about these citizens, and here there are no two state secretaries who have called for this debate. It's none of their business. It's none of their business. Not a single bill to help citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26307	Further applications for discussion. Dear colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go. For the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26308	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just before, Col. Stazic, here in today's debate, is the crisis, is the recession, has the depression heard a comment where it was literally made by fellow Hebrang that the fact that the inflow in the budget this year is less than last year. Do you remember a week ago or how much, a little less, here Minister Shucker is answering me to my parliamentary question about the problem of budgeting, and I connected it with the increase in the price of gasoline, he said what I'm talking about? How do you reduce the inflow of the budget? That's not true. Comrade Hebrang, please. I didn't interrupt when you spoke either when you were giving replicas or correcting incorrect allegations. Please. Therefore, on the one hand, Minister Schucker, who is not convinced here today by one, on the other hand by representatives of the ruling coalition, something third tomorrow will say by Prime Minister Sanader, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government constantly assures us that the government is thinking intensively every day about what is happening in the world and with us. A few months ago, we were convinced that what was happening at global levels had nothing to do with Croatia, we did everything we needed, don't we see the indicators that did, here we saw today what the indicators were. So it's none of our business. We were then under the ruling coalition in fact a charm in heaven or on earth. Now, all of a sudden, don't you see the global crisis, but that's what caught us and so on and so on, and not the worst of it all. And there needs to be one more time and it needs to be repeated over and over again. This government doesn't want, it doesn't know what to do, but maybe it shouldn't be against her, but then at least she should accept the suggestions that are coming, not only by the opposition, but that come from the experts, and then don't spread any regrets about who stole something or didn't steal it. But the main problem is, the ruling coalition doesn't actually know, I guess it lives in its millions and billions of kunas, and I don't know what, it has no idea what it means to have an average Croatian citizen, co-workers and colleagues, that's exactly what it means. Minister Shuker tells me that I'm creating a problem over a couple of slips, a couple of drops, imagine when the fuel goes up, here's a few days ago he picked up gas again. How do you explain that again? Now, these few fines are actually a problem in thinking what they know is what it means to live with 30 kunas a day from the beginning to the beginning, because this is about not knowing which millions of kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26309	Thank you very much. Replication response, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26310	Well, don't be co-workers, Sobol, with Shucker's statements coming up. Please, that's the minister who said three months ago that economic growth will be 4.5%. I mean, he has no idea how to calculate the GDP, then the prime minister told him in 10 days, we'll be happy if he's two and only Governor Rohatinski told them he'll be 0. Well, Minister Schuker, of course he was telling you that the budget would be charged because he had no idea, because he made a budget, miscalculated on growth, which is expected to grow by 2%. There won't be any growth. Instead of going into budget rebalance now. I wish he'd admit it in time to make a mistake. He won't do that either. Therefore, do not come with the statements of Minister Shuker, it is inconclusive to comment at all what he does not say.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26311	Thank you very much. And the final application for the replica, the distinguished representative Pancic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26312	Thank you. Comrade Stazic, you're absolutely right when you say there's less corruption and crime involved with this government. It would be easier to deal with the crisis. You also mentioned a figure of six billion kuna, how much a year is likely to be spent on corruption. It's probably an optimistic assessment. You also mentioned trucks, Brodosplit, it was peanuts, I guess that's money spent on peanuts compared to money stolen from major infrastructure projects. Why was this government bewitched by such megalomanic projects? Well, it's simply because on these projects you can take the most. A few months ago, or two months ago, a state attorney answered me, said he was going to answer my criminal charges about such illegalities on the highways. I didn't get an answer until today. Why? Well, because the answer would probably confirm that there was an illegality, and I'll just remind you that the price of a mile of highway from 4 million euros, as it was in 2003, jumped to 8 million euros, and projections for future construction spoke of 10 or 11 million euros. So it is quite understandable why Croatia's highways could not be in debt on the international market for 2 billion to complete what the former coalition government started because no one in the world will give them no more lip. And that's why this government is now saying that those roads we've built a long time ago should be given to someone in a concession. Who in the concession? Well, you probably know who. And I recommend that you and everyone else read that book... Or should we all watch a movie together... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There you could see very well how this government is ruling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26313	And the sodom nothing? Thank you. Reply to the replica of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26314	You're warning your colleague Pancic about crime, corruption in road construction. You do so with the right only beware, be careful that members of the Anti-Corruption Council do not accuse you of sensationalism.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26315	Thank you very much. And the last application is an individual debate, a distinguished colleague, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26316	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Data on the basis of this law, proposed by the SDP, dated September 2008 in November. We can evaluate them alarming, non-alarming but it is evident that these statistics and events that began with the last quarter last year suggested that Croatia's economy and the Croatian economy would also have problems and difficulties. And it is evident that any serious government that assesses difficulties coming should take certain steps to reduce the bad environment, to make the economy do everything possible to reduce the consequences of negative trends. Of course, the strongest weapons the Croatian government had ahead of it was the 2009 state budget, the 2009 state budget. As you can see, we have not discussed the laws proposed by the SDP, and we have thus maintained the concept of a state budget that is very clear, wasteful, consumer, too heavy and too heavy for the Croatian economy. And the data on the Croatian economy in September and October last year was not good. Such a budget has been passed thanks to our hands and discussions in the Croatian Parliament. Four months from this proposal that we can conclude that the data is worse than it was in September, October. That the movements are worse than we predicted in September and October last year. And what's most important is what we need to hear in the council benches is the cries of the businessmen. The businessmen clearly say that they will not be able to handle the recession alone, that they are seeking the intervention of the Croatian state, yes, they have been telling the businessmen in the last two months. Do we hear them? We obviously don't want to hear them. We do not want to hear any calls from the economy today, apparently from today's debates. So we're not talking about institutes or statistics here, we're talking about clear messages from the economy. They said clearly, gentlemen, we expect you to help us with at least five billion kunas, with at least five billion kunas. They're also talking about 15 billion kunas, they're talking about special funds, so they simply assume that in 2009 because of the circumstances they're working in, it's very difficult to survive. But these same businessmen who are trying to send a message, too? It's too heavy and too expensive for our state spending. Too heavy and too expensive. Do we hear them? I'll just have one piece of information pointed out, just one, and we'll obviously be dealing with that information. You often mention 2003 and mention the coalition government. In 2003, expenditure on salaries employed in all public sectors was €14.7 billion. We've come to 23 billion and 400 kuna. If there was a growth pay for no one at all. But it's not salary growth, an enormous number of employees, new employees, an enormous number. Because expenditure growth is over 60% and salary growth is somewhere around 28%. What's going on? Do we now understand the employer's messages, gentlemen, too heavy a burden, we cannot carry it. Please do your part of the job, do something to make it easier for us. No, we don't hear those employers' messages, unfortunately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what we're different about. This distinguishes the majority and minorities in the Croatian Parliament. Yes, we believe they should be provided with the means to survive in 2009. That's why the SDP club also said, one of the solutions is the Profit Tax Act in which we leave them that profit in 2009. We won't tax her if they get her back into investment, if they keep her for trade. We will rely on it to be more responsible in how the funds are returned to the projects, rather than whether the administration itself shares the funds. Yes, it is one species, and of course another species, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which must monitor export projects and where we should finally pay the basic capital and that this bank monitors our businessmen. So we in the SDP are trying to hear the messages of the economy, not statistics, not institutions, but businessmen, because we and them have to listen. And these are messages translated into this law. Unfortunately, most people don't accept this message of the economy, they don't accept it, because I'm saying, maybe it's not a good model, maybe it's not a good model, maybe it's not a good one, but let's say how to give these money to businesses, start investment and stimulate them into investment. You know, it's enough to look at a little explanation in this law, so the government tells us that we don't even tax... of dividends, and no share in profits, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those are the arguments that stand, that's the truth. Now I ask you, what do we order with this view of the law and these tax policy laws? What are our messages? Gentlemen, anything you win, take the dividend and don't invest any more, don't invest. These are messages from our tax policies. It's easier to put a profit on the bank and live off interest, live off interest. Don't invest, don't worry about jobs, close jobs. That there are mistakes in tax policy. If we lack funds for this measure, we change the law. Don't stimulate dividend payments. Yes, we'll be surprised now that foreign bank owners are pulling dividends from Croatia. And he won't pay his taxes. Why are we letting that happen? Let's not let that happen. But let's stimulate those who invest. And that's where we differ. The difference in tax access. Release and stimulate someone who invests, who opens up jobs, who keeps jobs unlike who spends. These are differences in the approaches of our minorities and you majority. The truth is here for a few days, an estimate of 2.5 billion will be missing in the budget. Well, people aren't true. 'Let's structure that tax on profits in Croatia, so tell who gets the most. The banking system. So does the banking system need to be freed from profits? You don't have to. Well, it's not 2.5 billion, we're talking investment in investment, so it's not like that. Why are we throwing ourselves away so easily? Why do we want to create unreal big... and fear only because we don't want to change the tax policy. We don't simply want to give those who know how to open the workplace that opportunity. Therefore, these figures are incorrect, they are not acceptable at all. And on the other hand, if we don't solve the crisis, there won't be any profits in 2009. Are we aware that no one will have to pay the tax, because we are not creating an opportunity to simply make that profit. I'm sure we'll lose everything we planned, except, of course, last year's tax that's still left. These are things that should be discussed at least by us in the Parliament, let's try to separate ourselves from the Croatian government. Let's leave it for its own measure, to apply the package of measures, but let's think about what we can do as Croatian parliamentary representatives who still have to give solutions to the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26317	Thank you very much. We have one reply to the replica, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26318	You say a colleague should hear the businessmen. But if they heard the businessmen, it would mean an absolute change that you were talking about all philosophy and philosophy, above all public spending. In order to promote economic growth in debt without a full development strategy and while neglecting exports as the only healthy contribution to the country's development, this was a safe and open road to recession, which we have long warned about. But not only us, but Mr. Borislav Skegro, former Deputy Prime Minister, today the Director of the Investment Fund declares that he would be happy if all this would only end up in recession. Therefore, we should acknowledge this situation but know how to find courage and ways, therefore, we should have the guts, not constantly tampering gentlemen dear. The measures you say don't work. And what does the government do? Closed in cabinets and clerks, or their immediate subordinates, what they are doing, they are locked up in the cabinet, there is no solution, but there are computer games playing, and here in the Assembly, you are saying that we should also have one unique position. But what will you do when a colleague instead of finding some measure for which his and our government have no solution, Mr. Kunst, what he does and most of it. They're cutting newspaper articles from 2001. So that's how we want to solve our problems. I'm sorry, this is the fancy Croatian public. Croatian citizens are really being treated by the ruling circus audience.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26319	The answer to the replica? No, I don't. Thank you very much. In the end, we have a final application for the final word on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26320	On behalf of the club. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Our only intensities today with this bill of law were to make the state an incentive, not a brake to the economy. And that's the only instinct. That it stimulates investment, that it gives investment to those who are able to provide jobs, that it frees up space for the economy, that those who know how to manage, know how to provide jobs to be and get a chance to do so. We heard different arguments, the only argument that actually showed an impact on investments was an argument from fellow Maric that investment depends on the price of capital. And we are very aware of that in the SDP and for that reason we have sent two other conclusions, and they are related to encouraging private sector borrowing on the domestic market and therefore it is necessary for the state to release money on the domestic market, meaning a restriction in the public sector. The second proposal is the recapitalisation of the HBOR to create assumptions about investments in Croatia just with HBOR's recapitalisation. And the third proposal that was discussed by the CNB that the Croatian National Bank delivers monetary policy measures for next year just so that they can monitor the efficiency of the impact of interest on the investment itself. What I still have to mention, and it has been crystallized out of the debate, and that's what my colleague Hebrang noticed was that it was a coupled vessel. It is about the combined vessels but on the principle of which Mršić warned. If we ensure the application of this law, we will reduce the risk of investment. They'll plan more responsibly. Since they will plan more responsibly, they will have and will protect jobs. Job protection will bring the same income or slightly higher in the environments in which it is realised, and the same income will ultimately bring income from income tax to local self-government units. If we don't do that, local self-government units will certainly lose this year. But not just that. If we do not accept this law, if you do not accept this law, and we are open to any repairs and all suggestions, quality suggestions to work on another reading, because we want to do something for this country, if you do not accept it, you risk losing the jobs of the citizens of Croatia, the decline of the standards of citizens and their families, poor business of the economy in the next period and ultimately less income from units of local self-government. And that is why I hope, at least, that the mayors of the HDZ coalition government will raise their hands for this proposal so that their budgets do not shrink in the coming year. We won't be angry, of course, if you simply copy our laws and deliver them to the procedure in a week, but it's important that you do something. Sign them, here we offer them, 25 suggestions are there, copy them and put them in the procedure, we won't get angry. You'd better do something, take at least one, maybe save a job. As long as the government doesn't come with such suggestions, we have 25 of them in the hope that at least one of you will support to save the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26321	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Excuse me, on behalf of the promoter, the word "esteemed colleague" Slavko Linic is finished. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26322	Thank you, Vice President. I thank all the representatives for their participation in the debate and the debate itself has shown that none of us doubt that we have difficulties in the economy and however anyone who reads the statistics is still expecting help from the Croatian government but also from the Croatian Parliament and that we will have to deal with our work in the course of this year with the problems of the economy and what measures we as a Parliament can influence that the environment for the work of the economy is changing and that it will simply be easier to survive in 2009. So I believe that this long-term debate has moved us all to think about how to contribute to the change of environment around our economy. We also received quality suggestions in the sense that we should define what to do with the 2008 win, whether it would be okay to release both for reinvestment and for retained profits, in 2008 how to do something in that part, so if the law passes in the second reading we will try very much to do these proposals in order to see very clearly in agreement with the Ministry of Finance what these sizes are. I repeat, we must return to the fact that it is primarily our desire for industry to invest first and foremost to secure incomes or I would say less tax expenditure that will then be able to invest in improving my liquidity. And estimates of the 2.5 billion finance ministry don't stand and aren't like that. Unfortunately, the industry is not as strong on profits as the financial sector, which is not the one to be exempt from the obligation to pay the profit tax. We also need to realistically assess that the biggest problem this year will be liquidity and that it will be very difficult to pay the obligations regularly, regardless of whether these are obligations under tax obligations or whether they are obligations under the obligations of the purchase and sale contract. And that's why the funds are own all the wealth that the economy can really help live through this year. And don't forget that we're all going to solve the liquidity problem together. If we provide as much of our own resources as possible at that time, you realize that the economy will have less spending on credit funds, less expenditure on operating costs, and indeed it will be possible for several important economic operators to finish their business with profits at the end of 2009, so that we can expect certain payments in the state budget. Because unless we cut business costs, we can't expect more positive results this year. And maybe just following the explanation of the Ministry of Finance let's try to ask ourselves as Parliamentarians if we have the most proper tax policy. It's obvious we need jobs, we need businessmen to invest in jobs, but we're taxing them. But those who earn profit use profit and profit from their business results for their own personal needs do not pay taxes. Therefore, whether we should consider certain changes in the tax policy, thus replacing certain revenues in the budget and yet turning to stimulating those who care about jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26323	Thank you very much. Now we've really come to the end of the debate. We'll vote when the conditions come to pass, like I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26324	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, first reading, P.Z. 184, Proposer: SDP representative club. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: “The Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits is not accepted.” Who is in favour of the proposal for this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 77 votes, and 43 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26325	And now we move to the point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, First Reading, P.Z. No. 185, Proposer: SDP Representatives' Club Proposing this act is a Representatives' Club based on Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, and Articles 144 to 150 thereof. We've all received the proposal by post. We also received the government's opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Health and Social Care. We've also received reports from the board. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26326	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. After discussing the previous law, the second of the 25 acts that the SDP has referred or will refer to as anti-recession measures, anti-recession measures is the Law on Amendments and Amendments to the Law on Contributions. This is a measure that goes towards protecting the population. What's the point of protecting the population? Because our citizens are certainly the first to face the economic crisis as someone will say, and I will say today's recession in Croatia. Salaries in Croatia are falling, wages in Croatia are not worth as they were worth 3, 4, 5 months ago, and Croatian citizens can buy less goods and services for their money. And that is why we are obliged as the Croatian Parliament, as people who show responsibility to the citizens who have chosen them now with one measure of help to make it easier for citizens at this time. What is this law talking about? Two basic things and the aim of the law is, that is, to amend the law, firstly to increase net wages and secondly, to increase isolation by the second pillar, by the second pension column. I'll try to explain both goals. First, the increase in the net wage of employees would be achieved as follows. In the first pillar, the redistribution of the contribution would be made as follows. The first pillar would reduce isolation, i.e. gross would reduce the first pension column from 15% to 8%. At the same time, the amount would be transferred to gross wages, but would not additionally burden the employer. On the other hand, there would be an increase in the share of the singles for the second pension column from 5% to 9% and 4% would remain a discharge from the gross salary of workers, which would currently lead to an increase in net wages from, at the moment when the average salary is seen in Croatia, 232 kuna. On the other hand, further separation for the second pension column from 5 to 9% would lead to an increase in the allocation of the second pension column of 312 kuna. In particular, these two changes would currently help every Croatian citizen or employee with 544 kuna. We believe that at a time when Croatian citizens, as I said, can buy less goods and services every day than they could buy until a month, two days ago, when a further blow to the standard of living of Croatian citizens through the growth of interest on housing loans, to other loans that are already at work today. You today have a situation that Croatian citizens who took loans in Swiss francs pay 1,000 kuna higher rates of housing loans than it was a few months ago, means not only that less can be bought for wages, but the standard of living and life costs are higher. And we believe that it is important with the economy, which was the subject of the previous law, to help concretely the Croatian citizens as well. And if Croatian citizens feel a crisis, not only are we talking in the SDP, this is also what relevant research shows. Here, we will report research by GFK published in 12.8 that in Croatia, a third of households barely make ends meet. 38% of Croatian citizens expect a deterioration in their financial situation next year. 96% forecast that significant or moderate price increases will continue over the next year. 44% of respondents estimate their household's financial situation worse than half a year ago. 33% of respondents stress that they barely make ends meet, as I have already mentioned. This is why we believe that, in addition to what, of course, the first anti-recession measure we have presented today, it is going towards protecting economic growth that enables businesses to invest more, to protect jobs. That's how they help the citizens. We need to act specifically on this moment and help Croatian citizens to, as I said, with 544 kunas monthly have an effect on their budget which is not little. That's about, when we look at the level of the year, another average net salary. And finally, I would like to say what I find very important in this law, we have proposed an increase in the rate of separation for the second pension column from 5 to 9%. We are all witnessing these days of debate over the question of pension reform if the separations continue under these circumstances, i.e. whether the citizens who are going to retire in 15, 20, 25 years, those who have left the second pension column from the beginning, will have pensions as planned by the pension reform in 2002, or whether these pensions will be 70% of the average of their last salary. If this trend continues in the growth of pension funds that generate income from the second pillar and if this separation continues, it will not be possible and the whole idea of pension reform will come into question and eventually we will have redistributions for our pensioners from the budget, what we did not want when the pension reform was launched. When we talk about it and there were comments, I would say, MPs and also from the Croatian pensioners' party that it is not good to increase isolation because it is now such a situation on the capital market that it can potentially be lost more. Maybe at this point, but definitely long-term separation at higher rates can't be bad for future pensioners. And on the other hand, perhaps the government's representative will say it's a large amount and it's hard to single out 4% of the state budget, since we suggest you saw in the bill that part of the bill is refunded from health care cuts from 15% to 8%. But I will remind you that even when there was a pension reform in 2002, at one point, we had to decide to give up 5% of the contributions to first pillar pensions, so we did it and we didn't create a problem. We could find a solution to find money in the budget for it. And in the end, I'm going to say this. 25 anti-recession SDP measures, I consider this one of the more important because it is turned to concrete current assistance to Croatian citizens who are definitely necessary and necessary. We hope that you will support this law and that the Croatian citizens will have said since the beginning of the application of this law in particular 544 kunas per month benefit and more money in their home budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26327	Thank you very much. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the government's opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies. Proposal to amend the Law on Contributions, which provides for a reduction in salary contributions by 4%. Also increasing contributions from the second pillar from 5% to 9%, but this is also a proposal to cut health insurance contributions from 15% to 7%. According to the calculation, this would still be less revenue from the state budget than 9 billion kuna, and knowing the first proposal of 2 billion and 400 and now the proposal that will come for VAT would already amount to over 14 billion kuna, and we know what it is when the budget has already been adopted and what that would mean for the revenue side of the budget. So, the government stays in line with its opinion that she put it there.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26329	Thank you very much. We heard an additional explanation of the government's opinion. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There isn't. If not, then we'll move on to the debate. First or first application is on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, Honorary Member Nadica Jelas. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26330	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions is an integral part of the SDP anti-recession package, and unlike the previous legislative proposal aimed at discharging the economy, this proposal is actually the SDP's response to the ubiquitous collapse of the standard of living of Croatian citizens. In this respect, this legislative proposal has two primary objectives. The first is the increase in the net wage of employees, so stopping a further drop in living standards and that effect would be immediately visible. And the second is the increase in the allocation for the second pillar of pension insurance, i.e. for individual capitalised savings, and this is about a delayed effect which would naturally be expressed during retirement. The proposed legislative solution is to redistribute the existing total contribution to pension insurance in such a way as to reduce part of the pension contribution by virtue of generation solidarity and at the same time increase part of the contribution to the second pillar of pension insurance, with a view to overcoming part of the contribution to employers. However, the cost of the employer, i.e. the burden of employers, would not have increased by any means, since at the same time, its obligation would have been reduced in equal terms from the issue of health insurance. But let's take it in a row. According to the current Law on Contributions in the Republic of Croatia, the contribution rate for pension insurance is 15%, and for pension insurance is based on an individual capitalised savings rate 5%, or the total pension insurance is 20%, and the obligation is entirely on workers. The contribution for basic health insurance is 15% and is fully paid by the employer. Unlike this situation, examples of European countries that we love to compare with show something else. First of all, the rates for pension contributions and individualisation rates for health contributions are not as uniform as ours, i.e. that the rate of pension contribution is significantly higher than the rate of health contribution. Secondly, that the contribution to pension insurance is partly paid by employers, not only by employees, as is the case with us. And thirdly, the majority of European countries are funding the health system from both tax revenues and not just from contributions, as is the case with us. Therefore, the SDP club did not invent hot water when creating these legal proposals, but rather managed by existing good examples of European practice in this area. And now quite concrete about our legal proposal, i.e. what the SDP is actually trying to achieve with this proposal. The contribution rate for pension insurance based on generation solidarity is reduced by workers from 15% to 7%. This 8% difference is transferred to the employer's burden. Therefore, the obligation for a worker is reduced by 8 percentage points, in which space is opened to direct 4% to net wages, and by another 4% the isolation by the second pillar of pension insurance is increased. This increases individual capitalisation savings from the existing 5% to 9%. So it almost doubles. Transferring 8% of contributions to pension insurance from workers to employers is neutralised in a way that simultaneously reduces the rate of separation for health insurance from the existing 15 to 7%. Clearly, a reduction in the contribution rate for health insurance by 8 percentage points would result in a lack of resources in the health system. But that for a government that knows shouldn't be an indecisive problem. In fact, this deficit can be compensated so that the state saves on itself. Furthermore, so as to refrain from unreal investment with a long period of return. So, the country bridges at this point are really not acceptable, but also tax dividends. Finally, I have already said ahead, European practice confirms that the health system is also funded from tax revenues, not just from contributions. And just like this, colleagues and colleagues are an opportunity for the government to show its creativity in finding a model of financing the health system without being over the backs of citizens and economies as it has been the case so far. And just to explain why we suggest discharging employees from the pension contribution by reducing the rate from 15% to 17%. Because we think that pension insurance for generation solidarity as a transitional cost should not be burdened only by workers, this cost would primarily have to be borne by the state. And in the end, I'm just going to recapture the effects of the proposed law. So, by accepting the proposed legal solution we would actually all get first, and first of all we would get workers, and that is the most important thing right now and we would get it double. On the one hand, since reducing their overall retirement rate from the existing 20 to 16% would currently increase their net salary by slightly more than 4%, or that is nominally 224 kuna, thereby significantly neutralising the negative impact of inflation and retaining the real value of wages. Secondly, since it would be important or in nominal terms that is more than 300 kuna, it would increase pensions by 2nd pillar, which would ensure greater pensions and certainly safer age. It is clear to all of us that the current retirement rate for the 2nd pillar of pension insurance of 5% is insufficient and that the direct consequence is that the pensions of new pensioners are far lower than the pensions of old pensioners. Furthermore, the state would also profit because this nominal increase in the average salary of over 220 kuna would not go into savings, but in consumption because the current average wage does not cover the consumer basket. So, workers would just make up for inflation-fed purchasing power. And higher consumption, as far as countries are concerned, means higher VAT, i.e. higher revenues from the state budget. Furthermore, local and regional self-government units would profit by increasing the income tax base by around 75 kuna. Finally, the health contribution would be reduced by nearly 600 kuna. Therefore, it is clear from this that all would profit, with particular emphasis being made that this legislative solution would have no negative consequences for the employer's competitiveness, since it would not increase labour prices because as much as the burden on the pension contribution would be increased, the same would reduce the burden on the health contribution title, so we can say that this legal proposal has, or that it is completely financially neutral for the employer. Here, these are our arguments, we're convinced they're good and it would be good to accept them. And finally, I just want to say that we have proposed that these amendments be adopted by emergency procedure before the 2009 budget debate. Therefore, in order to help Croatian citizens as soon as possible and that the changes caused by this legislative proposal can be incorporated into the 2009 budget. Unfortunately, neither this bill nor everyone else in this package, so they were all pushed for more than 3 months to the beginning of the agenda, I remind you that they were given in the legal procedure at the end of October last year, so absolutely timely. The government obviously has no solution or still does not want to disclose them, as if it were still not difficult enough for Croatian citizens, and our solutions are not accepted, and I say everything again to the harm of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26331	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Andrija Hebrang's esteemed representative. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will be very brief because on the proposal to amend the contributions we can be even more summary in the reasons for the rejection by the HDZ club since these reasons are very clear and concrete. I'll start from the beginning. So, first of all, of course the ratio of pension contributions to health care in Croatia is absolutely higher in favour of pension, than in all the countries listed here, quote Austria 22:7, Hungary 26:15, Slovenia 24:13, Croatia as we know 20:15. That, of course, has its own explanation for why. First of all, the number of pensioners in Croatia is due to the war and that the higher in countries that did not have war, which is why the rate of separation is large, and on the other hand, the rate of separation for healthcare is higher than in those countries. Not because of the high degree of detachment in contributions, but because all quoted countries, and much wider health care, are funding 10 to 20% from insurance pockets. In Croatia there is no such thing as additional insurance in Croatia is also hanged on the HZZO system, which means for the treasury. Therefore, the risk of that part takes over the budget, in all other countries of Europe, that risk takes over the additional insurance that is on the market. In Slovenia, 98% of residents are additionally secured on the market, Germany, France, England, Italy and so on, all percentages range between 80 and 90%, 0% of insurance companies are secured on the market in Croatia, not on the market, but are in the supplementary insurance of HZZO, which means that risk covers the state budget. And that's why our separation is bigger. When a change occurs, of course, depends on how the budget will be charged and how many years the budget power will endure this way of financing the health system that it is this year, to remind you, it has received a far-reaching increase in funding on the spending side of all other items of budget expenditure. So much for the introduction, and now for the suggestions. We have a proposal to restructure pension insurance contributions and health insurance. The point for both is that we miss the model's financial simulation, which means we don't see in numbers what that means in relation to the state budget, in other words, we're in danger of harming, and we're not using it. So we insist on entering into another reading a financial simulation of the model, so maybe in that case we'll have a different attitude. As long as it doesn't have our position is next. If we transfer the pension fund to the employer, it doesn't mean we're going to raise the salary, not us, but the employer. This can only mean that the employer will simply equate his increased burden by cutting salaries to his employee because the employer has not received a new inflow of funds and has received new commitments. And that's why we can't accept it. As far as the health insurance proposal is concerned. The explanation is even simpler. In fact, here it is predicted to reduce health isolation from 15% to 8%, to 7%, so to reduce the rate by 8%. I note that each percentage of billions and 240 million kuna is approximately. So it's reducing the inflow of health by over nine billion kuna. And where's that health money coming from? I quote: "The lack of funds needed should be compensated by savings in the state budget in line with the recommendations of the governor of the Croatian National Bank, and by taxing income on capital." I'd like to see exactly where we're going to save the item. If we have a proposal to save 9 billion and 200 to 9 billion kuna, I'm willing to change my personal attitude, and of course how our club will react in that case, we'll agree on that. So we can't take 9 billion to the health care system and leave the risk of increasing morbidity and mortality at the expense of the economic crisis. We are not going to sacrifice health and we do not want to sacrifice the health and lives of our citizens at the heart of solving the crisis problem. We still have health and life ahead of us, and we will address the crisis with other methods and other mechanisms. As a result, we cannot accept these changes in health insurance contributions. And finally, I want to add to the conclusion, because we will no longer participate in the debate, that in the first place we have given all our views in relation to the proposed laws on profit tax changes and changes in value added tax and that we have nothing to add to that. In view of the changes in the contributions proposed in this presentation on behalf of the club, we have also given our position and we will indeed enjoy listening to your mutual replicas to see how you will justify to yourself what we are looking for, which is that in the future every bill that enters into taxes and contributions also has a table of financial calculation, which means in income figures, and what on the disputable side, because then we will have a serious debate. Without the number of budget discussions for me and my taste, it's not serious, and I'm sorry that you weren't your top experts, Greek and Jurcic, probably wouldn't support your proposal, but if you had at least an expert explanation. This is how it went down. That's why on behalf of the club, we reject this proposal. Thank you for your attention and good morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26333	Thank you very much. We first have a motion to take, to get word. Here you go. Dear Representative Maras. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You got it. Corrections to the quote. First Agent Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26334	... Hebrang's colleagues, even though there were more. [[Specially enabled.]] So he argued that the rate of contribution in Croatia is the same as that of a large number of pensioners. And that's where we agree. In the second part, however, he said there are a large number of pensioners in Croatia due to the war, which is totally incorrect. Because if you go back a little bit in history, you'll see that wars with an increase in the number of pensioners don't have much to do with it. However, trends are the opposite. I don't want to explain it now. However, there should be an increase in the number of pensioners in Croatia because HDZ has carried out privatisation and conversion, i.e. conversion and privatisation in such a way as it has spent. Therefore, a raw initial accumulation of capital was resolved where companies were understood as real estate, and workers and work as a cost and then work was to be disposed of as a cost in order to get some money. The HDZ, or HDZ governments, also supported such a concept of privatisation. Today, Croatia has such a large number of young pensioners because of this, not because of the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26335	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote, distinguished representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26336	Thank you very much. I am correcting the same, completely incorrect assumption that the war is the cause of an increase in the number of pensioners in Croatia. In addition to what his colleague Lucin said, it should also be noted that there was an increase in the number of pensioners following HDZ's arrival to power, as he then retired a huge number of Serbs, due to their national belongings, a huge number of those who were ideologically unacceptable, young people who were retired and burdened the pension fund for years later. Therefore, for the failure of the pension fund, for the difficult position of the pensioner, the single culprit is HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26337	Nadica Jelash, the esteemed representative, rectification of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26338	Dear Representative Hebrang said that by redistributing pension insurance contributions between workers and employers, the employer would be additionally burdened. It will not be additionally burdened, as according to our legal proposal for an employer would reduce the contribution for health insurance from the existing 15% to 7%. So 8 percentage points. It is obvious, therefore, that part of the health contribution would be substituted by a contribution to pension insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26339	We've got another application now. I saw one of the replica tables. Ivan Lucic, come in. ... Then it's really up to you on behalf of the proposer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26340	Thank you very much. Here I was just trying to react immediately to Mr. Hebrang's exposure. First, as has already been said, we have sent this law before budgeting for this year and that a redistribution could be found within the budget, the savings needed to implement this law. In particular, hebrang, as well as Mr Mladneo, said regarding health care and the amount that will need to be set aside if the contribution to health care is reduced from the gross salaries of employees in Croatia. This can be done by redistributing the budget by throwing out projects that are not needed to be done now this year. On the other hand, we introduce and witness now the health reforms he is trying to implement, however slightly and unsuccessfully, the current health minister, where Croatian citizens will be forced to take the additional health insurance that was made so that it is very likely that everyone will be forced to take it. 2 billion kunas thinks he's getting them out of his pocket. So here is a way, and HDZ has shown without making it easier for Croatian workers on the one hand by accepting such proposals and such laws as we propose to specifically help Croatian citizens through net wages, that they will take money from their wallets in some other way, regardless of whether or not they will make something possible for them. On the other hand, even though there is no simulation of the salary of this bill, I think that colleague Hebrang is professional enough to understand what my colleague Jelash said earlier. So the employer will not have any additional burdens, that is, 8% that mentions the transfer of the first pillar to the gross salary will not burden the employer, but rather will remain as it has been so far since the reduction in the allocation for health insurance is foreseen. So there is no saying that there is no room for savings in the budget, there is no saying that there is political will and desire to help Croatian citizens in order to find a way to dissipate the gross salaries of Croatian workers in this sense in which we have suggested it, but it is always easy to find an excuse in that there is no simulation, there is no table to refuse something then which can be very simple calculated if it could be calculated in front of a government representative. Here's Mr. Mladneo gave as much as he needed to redistribute as he could calculate the club of HDZ representatives. There are plenty of professional people in the HDZ Club who could do that if Mr. Hebrang wasn't able to do that. And on the other hand, as far as colleagues Jurcic and Greeks are concerned, they're totally behind this law, because together at the club, we all made it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26341	Thank you very much. There's a further debate on behalf of the clubs. And the name of the IDS club, distinguished colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26342	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, esteemed Mr. Representatives. It's my fault that there's no Mr. Hebrang here when he mentioned Markovic's model. And what's Markovic's model? What was the average salary of 1990, then, of the average pension in the average salary? Even 75.3%. Unbelievable but 75.3%. At that time, we had three workers on one pensioner in the Republic of Croatia. And the total expenditure on pensions when we look at the gross social product was 9.9%. Never before, never after probably never on these premises will the average pension be 75.3% to be exact average salary. In 1995, we have a pensioner of 1.81 workers. Average pension of 45.9%. In 2000, we have 1.36 workers per pensioner 37.6%. In 2006, we arrive at 40.8%, 1.4 workers per pensioner, etc. Perhaps when Mr. Mamic said what he said, what I have, say, reserves, among other things, he meant this lesson or this detail. But let's let it go now at this time of Markovic's. I've said since this morning that IDS will absolutely support profit law, but on this bill we have certain reserves. First of all, to touch these assessments of the necessary means to implement the law, I quote the reduced rates: "8% contribution to basic health insurance will create a deficit of around 9 billion kuna, the lack of the necessary funds should be compensated by savings in the state budget" etc. And on the side, one compares the European countries where it is said that, except in Germany, between the rate of pension insurance contributions and health insurance is significantly higher in favour of pension insurance, and that Austria lists 22.8 pensions 7.7%, health insurance, Hungary, I do not know Slovenia etc. What am I saying? This just isn't '68. So I don't know if they're real and they're looking for the impossible. The Croatian state entered 2009 with huge problems. The recovery of this country or the recovery will not take 10 years, as Mr. Vidosevic said, the president of the Chamber of Commerce, but if the world starts on the tenth, 11th, then we can also say that the recovery in Croatia will not be until 2012, 2013. In 2009, there was a recession in this country. In 2010, maybe depression. There somewhere there is 11th, 12th, we will add the damage, 12th, 13th, possibly recovery. God forbid the world starts as fast as possible, because it will take back the Republic of Croatia. So much this proposal to cut 9 billion kuna in the health care item scares me in some way, as it also scares me when Mr. Sanader is simply playing tricks on the halls that I dare say this morning I said, almost leading to bankruptcy. So like Sanader can't play that way with the halls, we can't even play with health care. We simply cannot allow ourselves to be treated abroad by the rich without the poor being at home. I would say, here I agree with the promoter that at this point contributions to health care, normal reduction is a problem, but these health funds themselves are not such a problem as to how much of a problem this pension system is. It doesn't matter when we adopted this second pillar in this House. And unfortunately, I reported myself there. Today I feel very bad about it, I see that I am at a loss or that I could be at a loss as is likely to all those who are the same with me out there in 2002, the third did. Why is there a problem with that system? Well, because 900 thousand people, I'm not going to say "falsified," but it's kind of proven to be damaged over time. 130,000 people between 45 and 50 years of age plus 770,000 younger than 40 who began to single out those 5% contributions in the second pillar today is free to say damaged. This was supposed to bring everybody bigger pensions and we see that today in 2009, this system brings us, if we don't go to this parliamentary pension, much less. For example, the first 160 women who started to receive a pension for both pillars are about to receive a thousand 660 kuna would have about 400 kuna more if they had stayed only in the first pillar. Those who make better money or better put it this way, the better you earn, the higher your pension, and the higher the second pillar, the less. So if someone makes 15 or 16 thousand kunas he'll de facto have 40% less than he stayed in the first pillar. For example, if the one with that salary had 6-6.5 thousand kuna because of the second pillar de facto has a 40% lower pension. That's the problem. It does not mean the problem of health insurance and it must be changed as soon as possible through some way. It is clear that all of us in this country would like to pay as little as possible if it were VAT, whether it was a contribution to pensions, health care, etc. But again, I'm going back to those nine billion kunas about the health system whether it's simple to make up for certain redistributions at this point. I'm afraid it's simply not possible because only today would the proposed redistribution ultimately be several billion amounts. Someone mentioned it even seems to me 12 to 13 billion people who would feel the budget one way or another. On the other hand, if we bear in mind that all the budgetary capacities were the meanings of the city of Zagreb plus 130 cities, plus a quarter of the municipalities, plus 20 counties, plus the state of Croatia in 2007 amounted to 145 billion kuna. I don't count here extra budget funds such as Croatian highways, Croatian highways, Croatian waters, then of these 145 billion kunas, 9 billion kuna has been redistributed for capital investments in 2007. So the question arises where to find the amount above the nine billion kuna. And if we don't invest in these capital investments, many of which are wrongly drawn and designed, then there will certainly be a smaller gross social product in this country. Clearly, we didn't need these halls like we don't need some bridges for Peljesac or I don't know what, we may not need any resolutions that go towards some systems that get more every year than they do, but we also need to take care of shipyards and everyone else. We signed these contracts for three billion kunas. When we pay rent to performers through a public private partnership, etc. These halls will cost us 6-7 billion kuna. So only Zagreb Arena, which cost 644 million kuna through the 28-year lease, pay attention to the 55% government, 55% of the city of Zagreb will ultimately bring a billion 820 million kuna to the INGRA. Is anyone simply willing to talk about it openly or do we really need this silence when the prime minister announces another handball home? I am convinced that changes in power will take place in the next parliamentary elections. I don't think that's controversial, not only would I like to, but what's going to happen. Whether it will be 2011, whether it will be in some early elections, it remains to be seen but I do not think, even by ruling in such a way today, the HDZ must not direct billions of kunas into unnecessary investments, nor should we in the opposition propose proposals that could not be realised or fulfilled that we are in the position of the authorities. And it's just that I'd say the truth. What we're proposing on pension reform is that the first losers of these 160 women are now thousands and thousands of those who have entered. But look where the problem is. The problem is in this unequal way of calculating pensions to insurance means that they have moved to the second pillar and that they did not have to do so and are now losing the pension allowance received by those in the first pillar. For 2009, this add-on is 26.4%. And that's why we at the IDS club are glad to talk about this law. We ask that in the Government, in this House, the possibility of changing the formula for calculating the base from the first pillar, so to 15% of the contributions that continue to be made to that first pillar, and now they have no right to income or the possibility that these people who are cut off in that second column will return to the first pillar. I believe that the new generations of pensioners who could choose between the remainder in the first pillar or the transition to the second pillar, means born before 62, should have a pension account as follows. So, for payments 15% contributes to three-quarters of pensions with an increase in pension allowance and these 5% or 5% contributions, which is one-quarter of pensions according to the rules applicable to the second pillar. That's how I think that this injustice would be neutralized, to begin with by these 160 women and later by many others. But I'm just as deeply convinced as the state had to bring about for the sake of the House Peace Act of Reimbursement of Retirement We'll also have to correct this illogicality of that second pillar. All in all, we are pleased that this Law has now appeared on contributions to the procedure. We support him going to another reading, but as I said, we also have certain remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26343	Thank you very much. We have reports of an alteration of the quote. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26344	I would like to thank my colleague Caine for supporting this bill to go to another reading. I'd like to correct two false allegations. I would first correct the misquoted graphite from the Sorbonne '68. which the students wrote. He didn't say, "Let's be unrealistic, we're looking for the impossible," but "Let's be realistic, we're looking for the impossible." ... No, but you said "unreal," Mr. Cain. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then it was a lapus. Then I heard wrong. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26345	Let's be realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26346	I'm coming to the main people. Mr Cain said that the Croatian budget, i.e. all the budget funds in Croatia, has been re-conducted. Yeah, the way they're set up. But this law and 25 other laws and measures that the SDP has proposed and which it will propose, implies that the budget is also restructured or that the budget is rebalanced, because this could not be implemented without a new budget. Now, the simple question is whether this government is ready to do something on savings. We forgot a large reserve in Croatia, and this reserve is called state administration reform, so we still have, if not wider, the one in the environment of the most expensive state, etc., etc. So, yes, when viewed from this position, the budget is re-tracted, but when you keep in mind the measures that we propose it is not re-tracted and has reserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26347	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Maras, the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26348	Thank you very much. Here, I was offered a call after Mr. Cain's exposure. I am glad that they will support the law in the second reading and that perhaps some more misunderstandings try to clarify it to the second reading. As for the two basic segments of the law, i.e. the reforms needed to be made in order to make the law and make this deficit in the 9 billion budget as little as possible. The first reform is a natural health reform. We need to find new health funding models. Health care cannot be self-financed in the way it has been financed so far, and this is from the contribution to the gross salary of workers, or by the employer. That Croatia may be the only one in the world to have such a solution. We need to find new models and systematically resolve health funding, and here we propose the same new things. It can go to health funding through an increase in revenue in the budget from taxation of income from assets. This can be done and additional resources can be found for financing the health system. On the other hand, pension reform. So the whole point of the pension reform, and this proposal of ours, to increase the isolation from 5 to 9% is that new pensioners in 15, 20, 25, 30 years will not be financed from the budget. To create a place to be later financed from the savings of citizens, pensions, or each single life, his entire working life for his pension, and not to fall later on his pension on the burden of the budget. And that's the point, and we think we need to go to an increase in that separation so that it doesn't happen again in 20, 30 years we have the financing of pensions as it is now. I must warn and, of course, we find this extremely important and therefore we propose this increase from 5% to 9%, that the values of pension funds or the property of pensioners have fallen over the past years. We have spent the whole year paying and instead of increasing the value of pension funds it has dropped and amounts to around 3 billion kunas less than just to nominally sum up the exemption from Croatian workers' salaries. If it continued for several years, it would definitely be a questionable pension reform. And we think that separation should be increased. It's a detour too for the future. Not only for the future of Croatian workers, but for the future of the Croatian budget because if it is not enough to pay a decent pension, and it should be not like today below 40% of the average salary, but 70% of the average salary, then the difference between that from the state budget will have to be re-balanced again. And that is why we believe that this law and redistribution within the budget and finding new revenues within the budget must be the only alternative to this government. You can't just look at it the way it's going to be missing without having no vision of what's going on for the next 5, 10, 15 or 20 years. As I said in 2002, we suddenly had to say that 5% of us would be singled out in the second column. And by then 20% of the pensioners were released directly from their salaries, but the country 5% gave up the future or reform of the pension system. And when we talk about these nine billion kunas less as far as the budget is concerned, it means the gross salary of Croatian workers related to the health contribution, so that all the money will not go anywhere, evaporate. Our estimate is that around Croatian workers will receive 4 billion kunas of net more money over the year. Of those four billion kunas, people won't put it in socks, they don't have the money to save. They need that money for everyday life. It's likely that a billion kuna will return through VAT. It will return through increased consumption, through the employment of other people etc. So we expect 2 billion kuna to return immediately through increased other tax revenues. So it's not just a black-and-white situation like it always does, and I'm sorry that the government never does a simulation, which can be expected from the other side of tax revenues. They only make numerical sums of how much less 7% of the health contribution and then they say nine billion kuna. I say that, on the basis of other taxes, more than 2 billion kunas will surely be made if this law is passed. So we need to look at the situation from all angles so that we can end up with a final court. I must finally say that this law, of course, that helps Croatia's citizens directly to cope with these crises, goes for two structural reforms. One, which began in 2002, which is called pension and one, which unfortunately fails to begin for many years and now has failed again, and is called health care. We need to find a different model of financing the health system, because this is simply not sustainable anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26349	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. The first one was registered for discussion by a respected representative of counterpart Davor Bernardic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26350	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, at first, I have to say that it wasn't easy to cut into a painful muscle and increase the isolation of that. direct the detachment to another pension column. But it's state moves, it's reform moves. They distinguish statesmen from those who drive in the same track all the time and that's why they should have done it. But then what was done is not enough. The continuation of the reform is necessary, and this is also seen by world trends. This reform did not invent hot water, but it is an example of the best European in practice. So Croatia is not the exception nor should it be. And with this reform, intervention is necessary in the part of the increase in the allocation for the mandatory second pillar. But it doesn't come overnight, it comes in time and it's supposed to come in the last five years. Unfortunately, it didn't come. The effects of ageing in the population not only of Croatia but also of Europe reduce the possibility of paying out pensions on the basis of generation solidarity, and this was the main reason why the European countries decided to form a savings form, i.e. to pay out pension after a certain phase of savings. And that's the kind of insurance we have today. What he can't be happy about is yesterday's newspaper article, under which pensioners will have fewer pensions due to poor isolation, i.e. because of the poor operations of pension funds in 2035 if this trend continues. I hope not. So let's not be such a disaster. So if this trend continues to have 2035 less pensions. Now, the reason for that is also borne by the state. The state prescribes and regulates mechanisms where these pension funds can invest. I will just remind you that when I spoke about the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency report in this High House, I said that the HANFA had made it possible to invest pension funds from the first quotation of Zagreb... in the public stock exchange of Zagreb... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, they withdrew money from investment funds where they held a share of the funds, brought down the price of liquid shares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that, the market started to collapse, and after that, something after the sale of HT. Therefore, the speculative balloon decomposition process has been accelerated, and unless the mechanisms for supervision of pension funds are established, unless a legal basis is established, a sound legal basis is precisely that they place their resources in order to make a profit for those who should receive pension from them in the future we will not be in a good situation especially pensioners who will have to achieve a good part of their pension cookies from that fund. However, it is a global trend, a European trend and should be followed and therefore this supplement goes. It is our suggestion that the state must save. With this proposal, the state simply needs to save. The employer of this reform, this bill of law doesn't cost anything, and the worker is double in plus. In the beginning, they will have a higher salary of 550 kuna, and tomorrow they will have a higher pension due to higher redundancy for the second pillar. And the message we're trying to sublime today, regardless of the cost of the state budget of 9 billion of this reform, is next. The state must save if we are to secure higher wages and higher pensions today. Without the long-term state savings, there will be no higher salaries and higher pensions, and everyone should be aware of that. It's not the mind that SDP politicians are spreading. It is a mind that has been spilled by numerous economic analysts and scientists of economic theory. The state needs to save if we want bigger pensions and salaries. And in the end, I'd just say that by supporting our three laws today you support three things. You support higher wages immediately, lower prices of basic things immediately for our citizens who need it. You support more investment in short term, within a year, two days and support bigger pensions tomorrow for all of our future pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26351	Thank you very much. We have one application for replica, distinguished representative Željko Franić. Here you go. Zdenko, Zdenko, Zdenko, Zdenko, Zdenko, Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26352	Not him, because my name is Zdenko not Zeljko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26353	I'm sorry, I've made amends.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26354	Dear Mr Bernardić, you are right that the Government has damaged the value of most of the funds, which can also be monitored from the trends of the Zagreb Stock Exchange index, which, with less or more, has been falling steadily since March 2007. So far before this mortgage balloon caused the global crisis first in America and then the world. However, it is even more interesting to observe the trends of a younger cousin than CROBEX, so the CCROBIS index relating to government bonds, which has been steadily falling since 23 November 2003 when the coalition government lost the elections and since then the CROBIS index, the index of trust in the government's ability to pay and alimony the economy continuously declines so that of the value of 102 today is only 86. So a nice trend like this, which means that total mistrust in government bonds and therefore economic policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26355	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26356	Dear colleague Franic, you have raised the issue of government bonds well. So trust is a key thing in every system - financial, economic, political. Without trust, no long-term growth can be planned, and so this is exactly what you are talking about is one of the bigger problems. We have recently witnessed that the state is precisely in the same pensioners who have made huge losses due to the collapse of the capital market, and yet because of citizens' mistrust in the capital market that has accelerated the government's moves. It means the state is in charge of the money, the interest to pay the government bond interest. That looks about like this. In the Peace Fund, which invests in bonds that have a hundred kunas, he invests in bonds and accounts with an income of 107 kuna. The state borrows that 107 kuna from him and says I'll pay you back another 6 kuna to 107 kuna. The total pension fund is calculated at 113 kuna, the total state has taken 113 kuna, the state has spent 113 kuna, the pension fund is only an account with no money. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26357	Thank you. The esteemed colleague Nada Cavlović Smiljanec also applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So the SDP advocates' club offered solutions through changes to the tax laws and the Law on Contributions, which should first and foremost mitigate the impact of the economic crisis on citizens' standards, as well as redistribution of the economy and fostering continued activities. During 2008, there was a fall in wages, a large inflation of as much as 8.4% in July and was the highest since the inflation rate was measured by the consumer price index. The increase in energy prices and food, i.e. high growth, the price of basic life supplies affected primarily families with average and lower incomes. In the Republic of Croatia, we heard it from fellow Maras, one-third of the household one makes ends meet. About 720 thousand people in Croatia are estimated to be poor. As of this year, the price of gas for the household has increased by 20%, which will again affect those with small and average incomes. The first to hit the crisis were citizens. During last year, the SDP warned and offered solutions to ease the impact of the crisis on citizens' standards, but the government did not accept our proposals and act as if the crisis did not exist, as if all of this were happening elsewhere, rather than in Croatia. She didn't offer solutions, which she owed, so she's acting today. The only measure she offered during 2008 was the establishment of a Price Monitoring Commission, but what happened to that commission, where today, no one mentions it anymore. But I have to tell you, the government did do something about it, so it brought it in this year. The health reform that is carried out over the back of Croatian citizens and those who do not have it, but who is to blame for being poor and sick. The so-called Health reform will also have to be attended by pensioners who will pay a contribution depending on the amount of their pension. And precisely because the government does nothing to protect the standard of living of citizens, we propose that these amendments to the Law on Contributions increase the net salary of employees as well as the allocations for the second pension column, the pillar of individual capitalised savings. This would be achieved by redistributing pension contributions from the first pillar in a way that the employer assumes the payment of 8% of the contributions and the remaining 7 would be charged by employees, i.e. the salary of employees. Furthermore, it is proposed to increase the allocation for the second pension pillar, individual capitalised savings from 5% to 9%, which would also be paid by the payer, so that the total pension contribution rate paid from employees' salaries instead of the previous 20 would be 16%. At the same time, the health insurance contribution rate is reduced by 8% from 15 to 7. With this redistribution, employees' salaries would rise by 4%, meaning a net amount of around 224 kuna, while there would be no increase in labour prices and employers would have no new costs. An increase in the allocation by the 2nd pension column of individual capitalised savings is necessary. Pensioners’ pensions from the 2nd pillar are now less than 150 kuna, compared to those receiving pensions from the first pillar. These differences will be bigger in the future, but the government here is offering no solution. Either she doesn't know about the problem, or that's none of her business. I must say that this problem has been faced by other countries that have dealt with it in a way that their pensioners receive a pension from the 1st pillar. Finally, what is important to emphasise is that due to the reduction in salary contributions, and therefore the increase in income, i.e. larger tax bases, there would be an increase in tax revenues from the base of income tax cut belonging to district and local self-government units. These are just some of the reasons I have stated that I believe this bill should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26359	Thank you very much. Next, an esteemed colleague, Branko Crljenko, applied for the debate. Here you go. She's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Next is the debate of distinguished counterpart Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26360	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. I will try only briefly to look at Article 3 of this bill, which clearly and from the debates that have led to this topic so far is also challenging and most attention, and on the occasion and the public's interest is increasingly turning to a question that is inevitably waiting for us and that we will have to face. This one, it's either the third or the fourth government because it's also about a project that's already going on, here's the fourth government. Namely, it is about the concept of a pension system that was established, or started to be established exactly 10 years ago. I recall, in '99, it was the year when the serious pension reform started in the Republic of Croatia, especially the same time that pension reforms started in other European countries for practical reasons. In fact, systems, pension systems in Europe have collapsed simply and financially, on the one hand, and the financial unsustainability of this system, and on the other hand, low levels of pensions have led to the start of seeking the best solutions to try to solve the problem in the long term in some other way. That year, so I'm talking about the times of the Matesha HDZ government, so there would be no confusion when it comes to defending or attacking something just because it was happening in this or that term. The issues are too serious and exceed the incomparable mandates of only one government, but solutions that, solutions, moves, activities, changes to the laws that take place in certain mandates in the long term can then accelerate or slow down individual processes and expectations that may occur in that system. These days, a catastrophic announcement has appeared in the media, and I see in a part of our colleagues that threatens to draw certain conclusions quickly. Says second-degree fraud, pensions lower than 25%. For example, here in these discussions we hear this type of discussion that is not as bad as a warning, but in no case should it lead to a wrong conclusion. This means that quality, justified, professional assessment of the effects and effects of the pension reform as a whole, in particular what we implemented in 2002, as of 1 January, so the introduction of a three-part pension system, so it takes a much more serious analysis than what is rapidly in the media, based on 150 pensions of women who have gone into early retirement, so after 5 years of capitalisation can and may happen at all. I note that there is no confusion in these 150 women that we first absorb, they should not have taken and chosen II. It's a post. It was a serious mistake, and I can recall that then the reform creators and those who had an obligation to inform people that capitalised pension savings should not go into the system, although those who were between the ages of 40 and 50 should not go to those who do not think for at least 15 years to work even though they do not have high incomes, high incomes. Thus, the fact that some women had been in the pension system for only 5 years led to their II pensions. It stands now to be only 60 kuna, in those five years there is so much of their pension from the 1st pillar. What else happened? I think I can explain it so there's no confusion. The difference between those who have therefore made their pension only in pillar I and those who have left for II. I mean, these 150 women are, like, 30 kunas. But what else happened? It happened that we intervened as a state on several occasions in pillar I. We first intervened when in 2007, when there was a reduction in how to say penalizing going into early retirement and old age, which did not apply to the pensions that were made from II. The pillar, from about 25% to only 9%, led to an increase in pensions from the 1st pillar, but not those relating to those going from II. It stands, and it's only temporary, so disability pensions, and that's for women. And the other thing that happened last year, as you know, has started paying off the addition to the pensions of new pensioners and in total are now pensions for those 150 women 400 kunas lower than it would have been if they had stayed in the 1st pillar. Now that's the one story that's not good for making general conclusions. To make general conclusions should be taken into account projections concerning what will happen in 15, 20 or 30 years. The first thing to say is, neither do I advocate here nor defend Priory. I think we're gonna have to seriously talk about what we're gonna do in the pension system, I'm not defending II. The column, but I think all calculations, of course, assuming that there is no general cataclysm in the world and that the entire system of funds, the stock industry doesn't collapse, the stock market doesn't collapse, etc. It's an extremely catastrophic vision. If these dramatic changes were to occur, then pensions in pillar I and II were to fail. The pole. Then the system changes, etc. But assuming things don't change much more, II. The pillar will certainly provide for those who will receive a two-part pension, a higher pension. Now when? If we were to stay on a 5 per cent separation, as is the case now, it could only happen in 2035 as some analyses show. That's, of course, inadmissible. The SDP, with its proposal, is actually going towards what was promised and what was an integral element of the introduction of pension reform as a three-part system and when it was planned to be retirement for II. The column gradually increases by 1% to 10% each year. As it has already been 7 years since, and the separations have remained at 5%, it is certain that these pensions from II. The pillars have no chance of increasing and will be significantly lagging behind the pensions of the 1st pillar. It's a big injustice, it's not fair to people who work now. It's a serious social problem. It's not just politics anymore. And that's why it's unusually important to realize that if you can't go to what we're proposing now, at least it starts from now on every year by 1% to increase the share of the separation by II. a post unless we want to have a complete collapse of the pension system and some, if you will, and constitutional equality of people who will find themselves in a very different regime and with different incomes no matter how or how they save. Is that a red light for me? Then I must conclude. Anyway, I'm asking you colleagues, that's what we're going to do now, so we're going to leave. Don't let it happen in 10 years, that our children, our friends, etc., neighbors to curse us, question our responsibility for what you did for God's sake, be you an opposition or a position, they'll be in no way at all if we don't provide them with something at this point that will guarantee an even decent life. No increase in II. The pillar be sure we'll have a disaster in the pension system, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26361	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague counterpart, Miranda Mrsic, also applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26362	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well here is the law that we wanted to help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, obviously the ruling majority has nothing to say about or against that law, and obviously it is not in their interest to benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. With this law, we wanted the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have more money in their wallet and to be able to survive better and calmer this year in 2009, which apparently the ruling majority cannot say is the year of recession and that we are entering the recession. I guess somebody's finally gonna tell the old one the truth, which means "Car is naked." Finally, someone will go to explain to the people in Croatia that we are in recession and there is no money. He's been trying to noimput the whole time that we're deliberately doing a nine billion-dollar hole in the budget because we're such an irresponsible opposition, so we think we can suggest what we want. We are clear in our documents if you have read correctly how this part will be compensated, and in addition, it is obvious that this government knows no other way than to take the money from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You have a 5 billion kuna hole in your budget. That's what you decided to make up for by taxing the citizens of the so-called "citizens". supplemental insurance, and now she's got gas. Everywhere in the world oil is falling, fuel derivatives prices are being cheaped, only in Croatia in the last month has increased twice. Therefore, we expect that something else in this country will gather just to try to fill in the budget gap. When we talk about this 9 billion health care in itself if you give it 27 billion, it's going to cost 27 billion. The reform that has been launched is not a reform but is in principle simply a way to fill the fiscal gap in the budget, and that the right reform would then start from structural changes and in structural changes in health care with the means at our disposal it is possible to ensure good health protection and improvement of the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because at this point we live 4 years less than our fellow citizens, or we will enter that European Union. So four years shorter we live, and that's why the health system isn't responding to anyone or to patients or doctors. A reform of health care that is not reform was aimed at making it as if you had a pack of wolves pushing sheep into the cake, so went this minister's reform of Milinovic's reform. She scared the whole people, that you have to make sure, you have to give money, because there's no other way, because we're going to tax you in everything that when you go into the health system, if you take a step towards the health system, there you are at 15 kuna. The doctor used to go without 15 kuna, it went without a wallet, and now it's going with a wallet. They say it's not the only thing that exists in France, that the first visit to a doctor is also paid in France. A certain part of that. But you don't pay the other part when you go to the hospital. In Croatia, that part is also paid. Why do the French think that? He thinks if someone's already going to the hospital, then that someone's really sick, so they don't even have to pay. You have to pay in Croatia when you go to the hospital. Therefore, if you want to discuss replication. I don't have a problem with the two of us replicating each other. Therefore, but don't throw it away, I don't think it's natural. They taught you to behave differently at home. Therefore, health reform is something that is possible and with what is possible to save money and can lead Croatia to have the health care it deserves and to have the health care it needs. What will happen in health care now, and what is also at the door, is that our insurance companies will receive weaker health care because a famous DTE system is being introduced that, for example, here in my field for the treatment of acute leukemia predicts 16 thousand kunas. With 16 thousand kuna, you can't treat any patients modernly. So, if that's the savings, then I don't accept that savings. If we're talking rationalization, then rationalization could be done in another way, not this way. We have proposed this law to leave part of the funds in the pocket for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that they can survive better this year. We expect more than gasoline, and when we talk about health care, I expect the health insurance policy to grow very quickly because there won't be enough money for a covered hole in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26363	Thank you. We have one application for correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26364	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Mrsic, incorrectly stated that the health system reform is not a reform and that it scared the entire people. I would like to say that, according to the World Health Organization's assessment, Croatia is available and quality at this time in a very high 30th place. And with regard to supplementary insurance, it is also necessary to repeat that almost 2.5 million users will not change anything. And that there is also additional insurance in all the countries of Europe that will, of course, help with the recovery and repair of the health system, which we have spoken about several times, and you personally in this House. So, in any case, it's not what you said that this reform is not going to niche, it's the aim of reforming to consolidate the health system and to improve the health system in support of what the expensive medicine fund is talking about here, which is also increased. And in that part, I hold that certainly your allegations do not stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26365	Thank you very much. We have two applications for replication. First respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26366	You see, colleague Mrssic, the government doesn't want to admit the crisis, because this government is a crisis itself. The government does not want to admit problems because with all the problems that Croatian citizens, Croatian people, this government has become its greatest burden and biggest problem. Why are they most replicating to you for the shine of fear? One who's scared of his own position when there's no ideas and ways like this power, then there's fear. And it is true that the entire people, all citizens, are in a special weaving crisis of this government as soon as they raise their voice. This government decides on what you said about health reform, and I won't repeat it, nor do you have anything to replicate it. But this hair decides who will live, who will thrive, who will be destroyed, who will be the cleaning lady and who will be the judge of the Constitutional Court. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26367	My colleague Anticevic, you are right when we say that it is not only to sow fear, but it is also to say that when we say that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are terrified. They're scared because for the first time in their life they have to pay for something they had free and something they had free, and now they have to pay money. We speak to this Slovenia we say in Slovenia they are all in supplementary insurance. Yeah, but they're in extra security to get some other standard, not to fill a budget hole.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26368	Thank you very much. We have further application of the replica, the distinguished colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26369	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you have connected the parallel between our legal proposals that allow citizens more money in their wallet and everything that HDZ suggests, which usually leaves those same people less money in their wallet and you have linked it to health reform which is the best representation. So we hear the torment on this side of the pay phone today on this bill that will allow citizens more money in some way to push through this crisis that is ahead of us. At the same time, we have a health reform that is nothing more than taking money from the pockets of poor citizens and Croatia has become another exact example for the whole world. We have voluntary supplementary insurance but which is forced and by that we are unique in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26370	Thank you very much. Next is a debate by a respected counterpart, Stazic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26371	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. This is another anti-recession law, and I guess it's because the Anti-Recession government rejects it. He's unacceptable to the HDZ club, too, we heard. The law is simple. It has a number of effects. First, he does not burden additional employers. Their contributions remain the same, the only things that are distributed differently. It achieves another important effect, which is that it increases by about 4 index points net wage of workers. Which means increasing the net salary of workers under conditions that exist today in Croatia I don't think anyone needs to be specifically explained. The citizens are faced with price rampage, everything's gathered, everything. Food, fuel, energy. They've collected medical services. Here's what my colleague Mrsic explained earlier. So that's what the citizens know, they're gonna have to pay now, they're gonna have to pay for the participation when they visit the doctor, the pensions are paid for the pensioners. They must pay if they do not pay for these participations when visiting a doctor, if you do not pay for the days of hospital treatment when they are ill they must take an additional health insurance policy. It's a new pay attack, a new fiscal assault, fiscal, parafiscal, whatever you want. Excise excise duties are increasing, as they have been increased to tobacco products. So one word of life is that the government's activities are increasingly expensive because of government decisions. Citizens in their wallets are getting less and less. The longer this government gets in the saddle, the worse and worse the citizens will live. It is not true that the government does not care about all citizens, it would be unfair to say that it is so cruel to all citizens. It's not. The government protects the richest. They're taken care of. Special care for them shows, for example, the proposal for a law on the introduction of a capital gains tax, income from capital. So when someone sells to Laura, Agrocor, I don't know what, then they won't pay taxes but a citizen who sells his old car he'll pay taxes. That little coin from the citizens of the government is cute. The big one from those rich guys won't take it, it leaves it to them. So we can't say that the government is completely indifferent to all citizens. No, there is still a small group of citizens that the government is concerned about. So, if the bill was passed, the economy would not be tolerated, employers would not suffer, citizens would profit from each employee, and they would profit in two ways. They would profit because their net salary would immediately increase by 4 index points and profit from their future pensions to those in the world of work today, as it would increase their isolation into a second pension column. The situation with the Peace Fund is terrible. You know, until the 1990s there, until HDZ came to the government of the Mirovinski Fund he was in that joint state pension funds were divided into republics, they were republican pension funds and they were the richest funds. The economy borrowed money from them with interest. All these retirement homes, all that exists, it's all built out of that pension fund money. Why? Well, because the number of employees and pensioners was very different. There were probably five employees on one pensioner and today 1.3 employed by one pensioner. A huge number of young people were sent to retirement in the 1990s. Hebrang says the war sent them into retirement. It's not war, there's no paramilitary formations and the JNA, so they're sending people into retirement. They attacked the country but really didn't retire to anyone here. It's not the war. It is guilty of such a disturbance between the number of persons employed and the number of pensioners, it is primarily the HDZ policy in the first ten years of the administration. First they sent all the politically inadequate, then they sent all the Serbs they could and found at all, they were nationally inappropriate. And then there was privatisation and conversion, jobs lost. These business entities are divided by a wake for which HDZs, those whose corners, mutlas, the team that robbed everyone, who destroyed those companies, who drove the workers out into the street. Well, that was HDZ's fit. When a large number of unemployed started showing up, when statistics became impossible, some of them were retired. Young people when they're 30, 35. You'll be retired for another 30 years. It destroyed the Peace Fund. Destroyed. It's one such long-term, it's more damage than the damage that was caused in the privatisation of the robbery itself. It's a far greater shame, because it's impossible to get rid of her. How many decades now it takes to restore some balance between the number of employees and the number of pensioners. There's not that much. If full employment was achieved in Croatia, the relationship would still be unfavourable, as the number of young pensioners is high. So that's not even an increase in employment that can be solved. So that's one long-term damage, that's one crime that was committed towards the country, to the citizens and to the pensioners in the long term. They can't hope for bigger pensions. I can't. They don't have anyone to make that bill. If I could, they'd expose it to HDZ. That would be the only fair thing. But HDZ couldn't pay for it. As it says here in the light of this legal text, it takes nine billion kuna for the health system. Now, they're wondering where. How come nine billion kunas? You see, in the last five years, so during this HDZ government, it's been founded on dozens of state agencies, institutions, institutes, other institutions that have taken over jobs from the ministry's department and have employed a large number of people. At the same time, the number of ministry employees did not decrease, leading de facto to an increase in the state apparatus. Total staff expenditure increased by 9 billion kuna. So if it wasn't for this administration, here's nine billion kuna. If that's true, then all the citizens would be helped, not just the likes of the ones you hired in that state apparatus, the party comrades. But it's the policy of this government, it helps party friends, what do they care about others. The HDZ needs to be fed, that hungry mouth needs to be calmed. And these other governments don't care. There are 69 State Secretarys in 15 ministries today. That's three and a half times more than during the Ivica Racan coalition government when it was deputy minister and there were 19. There were 19 deputy ministers, and now we have three-and-a-half times more secretary of state, 69 state secretaries. A smaller government. There are still 125 ministerial assistants or directors of the administration, just as many as there were before the number of ministries was reduced. Along with 45 state bodies such as ministries, state offices, state institutions, Croatia has 154 state agencies, institutions, institutes, funds, other institutions, and the government has established as much as 60 advisory committees and commissions. Each one has a president, a secretary, a professional service, expenses, fees to members, the results of many of them are not visible to us. But it all costs money. Well, instead of raising a state apparatus and setting up and hiring relatives and party friends, nine billion kuna into a project of this kind, citizens would have higher net wages and live better.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26372	We have reports of two, four, six replicas. First of all, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26373	Thank you very much. So don't be surprised, Mr. Stazic, that HDZ doesn't want to accept these changes to the Law of Contributions. They prefer them, you said yourself, coins and small citizens' money, rather than those they could tax. And on the other hand, HDZ thinks citizens don't live badly. Today we hear here all day that we live well in Croatia, that we are not in recession. There's no crisis. HDZ thinks citizens don't pay loans today more than they paid a month, two days ago, that there's no inflation, that health care is available and cheap. Available to all and cheap, that reform is excellent. The HDZ, unfortunately, thinks everything that is not true and therefore, Mr. Stazic, do not be surprised that they do nothing. They think the situation in Croatia is such that nothing should be done, unfortunately for all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26374	Thank you very much. Replica response, fellow representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26375	Well, I don't know if they think the situation is good or the situation is only good for them, so it seems to them that it's good for everyone, I don't know, but the fact is that they show carelessness, they don't care about ordinary people. A simple little man who lives off his work, who works honestly eight hours a day, sometimes more when the employer asks him to, who pays taxes, who pays contributions, who will now have to pay for the different participations they have introduced. I don't see these citizens being taken care of. I don't see that there's any interest in solving this issue at all. I don't see that there's any interest. So this is also a testimony to the passivity of the HDZ Club and in this bill and in the anti-recession measures that we are proposing not for ourselves, not for the SDP, but for the citizens. I don't know if they don't notice that citizens live well, because if they read the newspaper and watch TV, they should notice that. Even if they don't meet any man on the street, ordinary. But newspapers report daily. 400 jobs have been lost there, 500 workers fired here, he'll fire 300. That's what the paper says every day. That's Dr. Andrija Hebrang's article probably doesn't read or trust them or read them or trust them, and then here she tells something else or, most likely, it's all expensive but none of it matters at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26376	Thank you. Keep going. Replication report. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26377	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazić, in order to solve a problem or at least try to solve it, you must first admit that the problem exists. In fact, it seems to me that one of the reasons why the ruling majority does not want to accept any of our proposals is that they still won't accept that recession and problems exist. And I'm sure he won't accept any suggestions. I must say, I'm a little surprised that a colleague from our left or right did not take part in this debate, because this was a unique opportunity for them to look back at the work of the coalition government. That's exactly what I was getting ready for, because that would be an additional argument. You know, when you're six years in a policy debate and an economic argument that some government did six years ago, and you're not able to change what happened six years ago. How you will face and change what is a political reality. And that's what I mean today is a much wider problem than it seems in the first place. Here, I'm glad I saw my colleague, and he left HSU. I thought this was a subject that was very interesting for HSU that they would talk, but they're gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26378	Replication response, fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26379	A fellow Lucin, acknowledging the existence of a recession, would mean, for the government, that it would actually recognize its own incompetence. World recession flows, a global crisis that broke out in Western countries, has not yet spilled into Croatia, the wave has not yet arrived. He'll be here soon. We will probably see the summer by reducing the number of tourists in Croatia. There will be a crisis in Western countries that will certainly lead to less people going on vacations, anywhere, and so on in Croatia. That's what's waiting for us. When we stop the possibility of exporting and exporting this little bit, because nobody's going to import it, because there's going to be a recession in those countries we're exporting to, what little we're exporting. Then the echoes of the global crisis, the global global recessions will be felt in Croatia, and the consequences are still unimaginable. How many jobs will this mean, how many people will lose their jobs because of this global global crisis in Croatia. We don't know that yet. It's hard to predict. But what is now happening in Croatia is the consequence of the incompetence of the government's five-year incompetence and the recognition of this negative movement in Croatia for this government would actually mean acknowledging its incompetence and its incompetence. That's why they said the crisis in Croatia wouldn't be, that economic growth would be 2009. 4.5%, that inflation won't happen, so that's why they talked. Because everything else would mean a confession. Now they still won't admit it, it's clear they won't admit it. They're just faced with the truth, and then as Dr. Hebrang here, they have to twist the facts or speak as he says the truth to himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26380	Next replica, colleague Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26381	Dear Vice President, colleague Stazic mentioned the problem of retirement, pensioners and the growth of the number of pensioners. That was the case today, and it is also related to the collateral effect of the war, and the fact is that there has been a slight increase in the number of pensioners since the war. Then he went down in '95, '96, '97. years at the level of invalid retirement, and now I will tell you that I have read the report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute from one 2000 to 3000 pensioners per year. What actually surprised me in that report itself, and what was in no way clear to me, nor could anyone explain to me was a leap in December 1999. So, in '95, '96, seventh, eighth year you have a constant 3,000 disability pensions per year to make it in December, November/December '99. That number was 39,000 years old. So it's about a 10-time jump and it's an enigma that's quite a burden for a disabled, for a pension system. However, to which I do not know the answer, and I ask you, perhaps you are better informed if you may know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26382	Thank you very much. The answer of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26383	Yeah, there's an explanation, and there's a very simple explanation. The elections were held on 3 January 2000. '99. The year was actually a pre-election year, actually a year of choice, right before the election. If all those who have actually lost their jobs had the collapse of industry as a consequence of the ten-year bad government ended up on the stock market then unemployment statistics would have been terrible. In election year HDZ wouldn't allow it. He wanted to do a little hair on the stock market, and then 10 times the number of pensioners went up, and they actually lost their jobs in the stock market because they lost their jobs. Their companies have failed. It ended up in HDZ hands. They didn't know how to handle it. It's been robbed, jobs lost. Then they retired in '99. A year. And that's that increase of 10 times November/December '99. And these people will be burdened by the Mirovinski Fund for decades. It's an example of irresponsible authority. This is an example of maintaining your own political position, party positions in society, not caring about what social damage you are doing and what time. Because it's not a one-time damage. You know, when an affair is made buying a truck, then it's a one-time damage of 15 million kunas is a one-time damage. Ten million kunas in embassies is a one-time damage, so it'll sort of settle down. But this is a shame not for a year, not for two. That's too bad for decades, decades in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26384	Representative Dragica Zgrebec also answered the line. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26385	So, fellow Staziæ you say this government refuses our laws because it has no measure of its own, or solution to how to resolve it. However, there is another reason why both the government and this assembly majority reject such a deeper discussion of such proposals. Because the goal is specifically of this law to increase wages without touching gross wages, or labour prices, and to feel it as a worker, but it does not negatively feel the employer because he is not willing to raise wages, if he does not have to, because it is a conflict between capital and labour. The capital wants a profit, the work wants a higher price. And what is our government's goal? From all the arguments she gave us on these draft laws, the government's goal is to earn tax revenues more in one year so that it can solve the expenditure side of the budget as easily as possible. And why is it necessary in this situation when really objective employers cannot raise their wages in this way to try to resolve the increase in net wages to workers? Because the average salary and the average pension cannot cover the minimum cost of life and when the average salary cannot cover you, then how do you compensate for the difference you need to settle that minimum standard, then get in charge. Our families are in debt in banks of 123 billion kuna, either by family almost 100 thousand kuna or it's an average of 19 salaries, so each family on average has, it's an anticipated its income for 19 months in advance. It's a disaster for that family that's going to run out, whose members are going to be out of a job. So, the situation is not pink, the situation is serious, and it is high time that something and we in Parliament open a debate like this, that we all participate in it and tell the government that there is no more time to wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26386	Thank you. Replication response, fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26387	My colleagues, Zgrebec, the situation with ordinary citizens, their living opportunities, their small salaries and high costs are now in Croatia so that the net wage should increase 40% so that citizens can relax under the burden of prices. You can't, there's no magic wand, there's no magic words to do that. But I don't understand anything. If there's a possibility, and there's a 4% increase in the net, only 4%, but that these over-indebted citizens are 123 billion kunas in debt to banks, to at least make it a little easier for them, at least for those 4% to be relieved. That such a proposal is rejected. Well, now, I would understand that, though, if on the other hand the government were offering some other solutions. So today, with these three of our draft laws, we have five governmental ways to help the citizens. So if the government says, no, you're stupid, you don't know it, we know it better, here's our solution. I'd understand that. But the government doesn't offer anything, but brother dearly nothing. They're not even here when they're discussing it. There are 169 State Secretarys found 2. Now, if anything were to be offered, but if there was one single thought there to see how to solve it, how to help people, I would truly appreciate it, and we would listen carefully and accept the solutions, as we accept the legal proposals that come from the government when we estimate that they go in favour of the citizens, 85%... They would accept it, but I don't realize that someone who doesn't do anything alone is watching citizens suffer and not accept the solution of the other person who offers and who has a solution. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] That's extremely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26388	The replica was also reported by prominent representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26389	Comrade Stazic, you've been talking about a major administration that our economy can't stand anymore. For God's sake, at first a small effective government, and metastasizing what number of government officials, is hard to count at all. In a particular ministry, they don't even know who all the State Secretarys are. To this extent, this job of hiring relatives, acquaintances, has progressed to avoid hiding it from even international institutions. What happens in the customs administration, which is a subject, a special subject of observation and the National Council for Combating Corruption, is being prepared for an organised attack and synchronised on the president of the National Council of Jovanovic because there is a serious and taken his job. Therefore, this new administration was not in the function of combat services to citizens, but situated for the like. The union's opinion on the relocation and schedule of officials in the Customs Administration of the Republic of Croatia has been sent to all addresses and even to international institutions. The independent customs union is referring precisely to the insufferable, more brutal and elaborate politicisation of personnel, especially those in the management posts. They're literally the words of an independent union. People who do their job, who warn about bribery and corruption, are punished either in lower places or simply give no job to get away from themselves because they are people who are used to the job. And then here's what you have for this consequence, and what's the answer, which is why these measures of response to recession are not welcome in the crisis? Because they're changing their entire philosophy. That they will never agree to, but why do they argue at night? I believe that part of the law will come in the morning for people to see what we're discussing, which is what one opposition suggests to the government that is incompetent and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26390	The answer to the line, colleague Stazic, but you don't need to yell at each other, you see that we've calmed down, we're listening... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26391	You're talking to your colleagues, Ingrid, about the customs administration. Yes, it's the customs administration, it's the ministries, it's the state offices, it's the institutions, it's the administration. But look now, there's no end to it, it becomes courts. And now, the recipe is very simple. The parliamentary majority in the state judicial council chooses its own man, and then he chooses judges in the state court council, so when there's no other explanation, he's still so arrogant, so bold he's talking about the genetic predetermination of some candidates. It means to mock the public, it means to mock the citizens, it means to mock the ideal of democracy, it means to show your true face. And now it's not just the courts of some community, then it goes to the Constitutional Court. Then you take someone from the state administration who worked as a lawyer in the government until then, and then you go with her to the Constitutional Court. Any conditions, no conditions. Well, it doesn't care about this parliamentary majority. Well, that doesn't matter to them at all. The only thing that matters is that their man is in position. If the laws are broken, if the laws don't break, they don't care. It's a pattern of this government's behaviour and this parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26392	Thank you. And the last application for a replica, distinguished colleague Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26393	Dear fellow Stazic, you spoke of an increase in the number of state secretaries and ministerial assistants, and in fact, what you called by raising the administration was an anti-cipation which is still here, the Financial Times, as the unquestionable authority in the economic disk, predicted as a breakdown of global market capitalism and the free market. In other words, the government has anti-civilised and hired so many state secretaries and ministerial assistants who all receive salaries, pay taxes neatly, buy products, pay VAT, use public traffic. So the money turns around, the cabinets of the minister are full of speakers who, in turn, feed journalists, television crews and mostly comes to the boom of the exchange of market goods services, and in fact these may be the hidden anti-recession measures of our government that we cannot possibly get to, and here you have at least partially detected them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26394	Thank you very much. There's no need. Thank you. Then we will go with the final application for the debate for 10 minutes, the distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here's my colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. One law and I said tough law. It is a difficult law because with these solutions we are touching all the problems of the Republic of Croatia or the biggest and most difficult part of the problem. The problem of the Croatian competitiveness of the economy is a very clear message we are not competitive because the cost of working in Croatia is too high. The problem of entering green field investment for reasons why we are uncompetitive due to high labour costs. Reduce our country's burdens to reduce the labour costs. It's a message from the economy. In this proposal, we're not going down, but even though that labour cost is too much to show? Low workers' wages. The salary of workers may be enough to cover only two-thirds of the cost of citizens' lives, and the low wages of workers when you put more in relation to the average pension, then it is indeed a low level of pension. It means how to offer solutions not to change the cost of work by increasing the salary, because the pay hike is expected to increase the wages in that column. I'm sorry. Retirement in the pillar of generation solidarity. So it's important to try and tell the employer, you'll have the same cost, but you'll have a more satisfied worker. You'll have a worker who'll still be able to spend a little bit more. You will have a worker who will be able to buy both your services and products on Croatian markets. That's one of the solutions we've offered. Second. Big labour costs, and we have a problem with the work ensuring all contributions to health insurance for Croatian citizens. A million and a half, a million and 540 thousand workers contribute to 4 and a half million inhabitants and their health insurance. It is evident that this is unsustainable, the cost of work cannot be participated for cover and health insurance. We have to change that. Is that science? Well, it's not. We just need to apply European solutions to our system. In Europe, the main contribution to healthcare is not work, does not pay the worker. The other way around. It is property that provides a health system in most European Union countries. And we're going to that European Union. We don't want to talk about it. Yeah. We're trying to say let's remove part of the cost of health insurance. Let's not make a million and a half workers pay for four and a half million people. He has to pay some of the property, because it's the practice of the countries where we're going in. How our businessmen will be competitive when unfortunately in the cost of work is all health contributions to health insurance and health care for citizens. We have to change that. It's a reform we haven't solved. With the intrusions we are now introducing as a health reform, we are not handling it. So that's another problem this law is trying to solve. And then we come up with another problem, which is pensions, pension systems. By mixing two systems of generational solidarity and saving citizens. The system that started to apply or passed the law in '99, we didn't follow it till the end. There are so many problems left where each of us must be ashamed of tomorrow’s children who will not be able to secure a pension for themselves. Why won't they? Well, for reasons the transition cost of the pension system is paid by the workers. We old people who pay and we'll be in that system, so it doesn't matter, but the younger workers, I'm sorry, make most of the contributions for the former pensioners. They give for generational solidarity. He's not saving himself. And that's why tomorrow won't have enough pensions. That's the problem we know. Where the experts are trying to point us out. The SDP is talking, we need to get rid of that system. If we're going to be in health care, there's room to try and solve that system, that new pension system. So we are not damaging the incomes of the HZMO fund because there will be enough for generation solidarity, but there remains a problem of what to do with young workers who need to save for themselves and where simply not enough to provide, and thus we are trying to solve these problems as well. Therefore, a small law that touches Croatia's competitiveness, competitiveness of the economy, foreign investment in completely new investments that are trying to resolve higher wages, greater satisfaction for workers who are trying to solve and transfer to some other incomes, health, money and security of sufficient funds, and of course what we have to solve in salaries is a pension system. With one law, so many problems. So you will allow us, the European Union is interpreting us, you have not solved the pension system, the European Union has not solved our health system, this is interpreted by the World Bank. All World Bank findings point to that, we have to work it out. So, gentlemen, who's gonna handle this if we don't go to this House? When do we start solving these systems? And in order to get rid of them, we need to know each other seriously about the cost of work and what we transfer to the labour costs. For this reason, this law did not enter the procedure for the first time in November last year. No, no, no. already in February last year we were trying as a SDP club to point out that we have too much work to do and that we have to redistribute differently in those... for the social needs of society. And there's a very clear SDP policy. Our policy is that gentlemen of social problems can no longer be paid only by a worker. We, on the social needs of society, have put all the burden on the employees. The one who lives off his work. It is evident that in Croatia there are growing numbers of those living on capital, which generate income from capital. And we keep saying we won't tax them. Whether in this Croatia we have become aware that income from capital is growing and that part of the social problems of this society should also be paid by the citizens of Croatia who make their income in this work. And then we'll have the necessary disbursement of labour costs, then we'll have a more correct tax system, evenly distributed I'd say to all those who make incomes in the Republic of Croatia. Until we figure it out until we change it, we won't be able to change any reforms. We can't change reform and it has to worry us. It's been years and we haven't changed the fundamental problems of society that are left of socialism, but we live in difficult conditions. Too many pensioners relative to the working and employed population. Now we have a world recession and I would say our transition problems throughout this system. And if we don't realize that we're going to have to change the tax system. And that's where we as SDPs are constantly trying to turn to the government and offer solutions. People need to think. Here you have very clear messages from our colleagues, making suggestions. So, gentlemen, when are we gonna stop playing? We'll tell the estate proposal and then someone will tell me that I want a worker who has 40 square feet of apartment to take a tax. Is this serious political work? Well, we can't do that. They'd be happy to give me those suggestions, which they'd be turned on. So that we'll intimidate the citizens. We scare the citizens all the time. But we don't solve fundamental problems, and not by solving these problems, these reform problems we Croatian economy won't be able to be competitive. We will constantly have a problem of excessive imports, we will constantly have a problem with the inability to export, and what is the biggest problem is that in Croatia we will be spending more and more on the side more and more competitive both goods and services. That is why I believe that much of the problems and responsibilities on us sitting in this House, and each of us is aware of this, and we make little contribution to changing the existing state.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26396	Thank you very much. The Republic was reported by a colleague, Maras. Let's go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26397	Thank you very much. You noticed very well the illogicality of today's pension savings situation, i.e. that Croatian citizens today start working for their pension saving three times less than the first pillar pension is paid. And that's what this pension reform needs to change. We must save for our pensions so that one day we can pay off pensions that will be worthy that you can live happily from your work for the rest of your life. And if that money is not small, it will tell you that around every Croatian citizen saves about 4 thousand kuna a year for his second pillar, and on the other hand, for the pension solidarity payment of 12 or 13 thousand kuna that goes into the budget and is then paid through the budget further into pensions. Almost 21 billion kuna a year. How much pension pension will be if it succeeds, and it will only succeed if we ensure that Croatian citizens can save their pensions with dignity through insurance companies to pay their pensions for the rest of their lives, we will save 20 billion kuna from the budget that can be redistributed later. As a result, I believe that an extremely important item of this whole law and the whole story about the second pension pillar is extremely important because the pension reform must not be compromised. A colleague Vidovic noted that by singleing out this growth that is now, which can be smaller if the crisis continues for the next few years. That'll only happen in 2035. I think it's inadmissible and we need to make sure that this happens at least ten years earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26398	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26399	Thank you. It's hard to even look at a young worker who understands the pension insurance system. Why? I belong to an older generation, I belong to a generation that will enjoy a pension from generation solidarity. From my work goes 20% to HZMO for I would say former workers and so tomorrow I will secure my pension. Anyone who started the work in 2000 or something earlier pays for those former workers 15% for themselves 5%. It's unsustainable. Therefore, anyone who gets a job tomorrow will pay generation solidarity, he'll provide pensions for all of us sitting here, because most of us I don't suppose we'll talk about parliamentary pensions, we're the majority of that generation that's been determined... They will pay for our pensions and for themselves they will save 5% of their pensions that will not be enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do we realize what our responsibility is? It is unacceptable that this young worker who started working, who enters the new pension system, pays for the transition cost of the system. That cost of the system was supposed to be paid for by someone else. In our proposal, we say some pay employers but we must not burden the employer's labour costs. And that is why we propose that the removal of a health contribution which, as in Europe, should go to the burden of those who live on property and income and generate their annual income on property. It's something that every one of us has to think. We do not have the right to burden young workers to pay pensions for the current pensioners and not provide for their pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26400	Thank you very much. Next, counterpart Indrig Antičević-Marinović applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26401	You say a fellow member of the growing number of citizens has an increasingly significant income from capital, and that is where the source of the budget is seen. You are saying how it should be changed, but it is quite clear that this power will not change it because this power has made it possible and it is very happy to pour to the rich. This is the government of large capital. And for those others, it has made sure that reforms that are not in their favor are carried out on their coat of arms, but are in favour of those who have been freed from such burdens, dandruff, and for the people that are left behind, the people have remained bread, games, and sometimes even for bread now themselves. So, no government like this one that's incompetent, that's not questionable at all, but no government is so incompetent that it wouldn't be able to see that the people are in crisis, that they're poor, that the standard is rapidly dropping, but they simply wouldn't change anything. And why would they count them like this? If we didn't have a hard time in the first term, we'd have different spins. What would change me now, there's something involved, the question is, and we don't know how to do it, and we don't know how to get it out. The best thing is nothing, we'll create an illusion like this so long as it pushes. As Italian neighbors would say, "Fince dura, non paura." But it looks like you've made a real emperor to the tobacco store, that the moment of truth has come.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26402	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26403	Let's be honest, we're not the only politicians who say that the tax system has to turn to the distribution of social burdens more just and that it has to turn towards incomes in the country. In the last few months, all these are more frequent messages and employers' associations, people who invest capital in production investments, people who fight for job openings and their messages are that we have to change the tax system and that is why I am convinced that this year we will definitely talk about that system again and we will start changing it. Simply burdens of social care in our society are difficult and we have to redistribute them and these are messages that I would say to our satisfaction, my satisfaction is increasingly speaking to the businessmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26404	And the third replica representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26405	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Linic, I'd say it like this today after this whole day's debate and we're still waiting. Listening to us, watching and listening to this other side that the truth has become less and less likely today with these laws will be like in that song, "It's a terrible effort for your players." However, when we talk about these topics today, we are also aware that, of course, tomorrow or in any day, the ruling majority will elegantly reject all these bill proposals and will not miss them in another reading. Every law finds itself and every proposal of a grudge is literally so that I say almost every proposal that comes from our side is filled with them. But what might be more worrying, let's go back somewhere for a year and more back, the problem is the irresponsibility and haughtiness of the government when it says on the one hand why you're just criticizing, let's make a concrete suggestion. And then when anyone in this country does the only thing they're going to experience, it's a blow, it's a spit and a disdain. Let's remember the governor of the National Bank when he warned about the inflation problem a year and more ago, let's remember the Prime Minister then of our Sanader what he was saying. He said he was panicking, that people were wrong, that they were lying, etc. that who dares to do so in this country at all. I'd say it's easy maybe, there's no colleagues here today, Ljuba Jurcic, so he's SDP's, so we'll spit easily on him and on these recession, anti-recession measures that we've proposed as a SDP club, or on Branko Greece. But lately, more and more prominent businessmen, entrepreneurs, respected employers suggest that we are not in crisis but in recession, not that we will get away in a few months, but that we will need more years. And I wonder if, as in these days and in the future, any other expert who steps forward will experience the spit of the ruling coalition, as all experienced by the ruling coalition as much as the good or excellent proposals that came from either opposition party, either by any expert in this country. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26406	My colleague Linic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26407	I agree with my colleague Sobol that it's tiring to suggest, try to explain the reasons why we're changing something, and the other side is declaring you unsupervised, irresponsible or politician. But I'd say so much we've learned in this political practice that it doesn't need to destabilise us. Repeat, repeat and repeat. We in Croatia must understand that there are solutions, that we will look for them ourselves, that solutions are expensive and that unfortunately, Croatian citizens will pay them with the greatest work. The power of the government will be when it realizes that the changes must be triggered, to bring as many people together on these changes. The more she insults, the more she refuses to discuss changes, the harder it will be for her to lead us all into I would say certain changes that will not be easy for Croatian societies. You're self-evaluating how difficult these packages are that SDP is offering, then you know it's going to be very expensive and difficult changes. I think every government will then need every citizen of Croatia, every politician, every businessman. So I'm afraid the government is wasting its credibility to start these changes tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26408	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, finally, MP Nadica Jelas called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26409	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will use the right to recapitulate the effects of this legislative proposal in front of the SDP. So, we offered today a solution by which everyone, from workers to the state, would profit. Workers would get higher salaries by reducing contributions to pension insurance from 20% to 16% and that would be an immediate effect. Due to an increase in the pension rate for the second pillar of pension insurance from 5% to 9% of future pensioners would receive higher pensions of over 300 kuna, so their age would be safer, less uncertain. It would profit from the state, as higher net wages could buy more consumer goods, and higher consumption means higher VAT, so part of the positive effect of reducing the pension contribution would also be added to the state budget. In the end, local self-government units would also profit, as an increase in the tax base would increase income from income tax. And all of that, imagine, would happen without the cost of working for the employer being increased by a single lip. It's actually an interesting situation. The government isn't doing anything, we've done everything. We did what the government was supposed to do. We offered a package of 25 anti-recession measures. You haven't broken a single card out of our hands through your discussions. Not a single argument. But in the end, you won't accept our legal proposals. How will you explain this to Croatian citizens? By rejecting our two legislative proposals presented today, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, you will reject the following. You will refuse the possibility that the established economy will catch breath, that by retaining the share of profits and by reinvesting it, they will retain the existing and create possible new jobs. You will refuse the opportunity for workers to get higher salaries and get higher pensions, which are at the moment, colleagues and colleagues, the existential issues of our citizens and, of course, our economy that fills the government's budget. All of this, apparently, the Croatian Government, unfortunately, is not aware of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26410	Finally, on behalf of the promoter, distinguished colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26411	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here at the end of a quality debate I would like to thank everyone who participated in it and who helped us to see with the arguments that this law is necessary for us, and also for the discussions that we have now heard from the representatives who discussed and that we have heard from these discussions many reasons for accepting this law. Reasons such as the current impact on raising Croatian citizens' standards, such as supporting pension reform, i.e. the objectives of pension reform and correcting potential problems that could arise in achieving pension reform. And on the other hand, opportunities for the health system to change a little bit, the way in which it will be financed, to find new sources of funding for the health system. Is this law real, is it all possible to make it happen? We think so. It is possible to achieve certain savings in the state budget, it is possible that some of the money that Croatian citizens will make will return to the budget through other tax revenues. It's also possible to make everything we've been planning possible, so that nine billion kunas can be financed from other incomes. We have a health system that is funded, yet perhaps the only one in Europe, from the money of the employer who accounts for the salaries of Croatian workers. Since this law will go into second reading, we propose, as we have suggested in the first law, to the ruling party who today has not shown excessive interest in the debate, it was only a debate in front of the club of MPs, does not mean that until the second session there will be no more interest. Since it is very likely that at the second session, as the situation develops, there may also be a question of budget rebalancing. These are already announcements that are serious and in professional circles, as well as by the government, to take advantage of the chance that this law may be better studied in this regard by the Government and to see that at this time it can be helped by Croatian citizens. Today after this long debate, two points that the SDP has referred to as the first of 25 anti-recession measures in the Croatian Parliament show what is the interest and how important it is that these measures be well discussed. We discussed two points throughout this day and I believe that Croatian citizens deserve all these points of discussion in the same way, let's say, presence and public view, because we believe that each of these points that will come to the agenda is important and can help Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen to get through this crisis better. In the end, thank you for the debate and we hope that the second reading will come at the next session and that this law will be passed during the second debate and at the end of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26412	Thank you very much. No more, no more reported, no more government officials. We'll vote when the conditions are met,
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-05-0.u26413	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions, first reading, P.Z. No. 185th, Proposer: A SDP representative club, the debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: “The Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions is not accepted.” Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 77 votes, and 43 votes against. We have a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission, please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Sesvecan, yes.
