ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32902	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. The consolidated draft agenda is shared with representatives and MPs. You should start with the Proposed Law on Prosecution, but the minister wants to present this bill himself. Since it is in New York, then we will skip it and move on with - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad in civil or commercial matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 334 Proposer is Government. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Drazen Bosnjak will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. This law confirms the implementation of evidence abroad in civil or commercial matters. The Republic of Croatia is a member of The Hague conference on international private law, and since 12. 06. 1995, and it has been a party to The Hague conference since 01. Ten. 1995. Based on which it is naturally involved in the active monitoring of the work of The Hague Conference. The Convention on the Making of Evidence Abroad to Civil or Commercial Matters is drawn up in The Hague 18. Three. In 1970, she entered into force on the 07th. Ten. 1972. At this point, a total of 47 countries are parties to this Convention. Although the Republic of Croatia has concluded numerous bilateral agreements on the provision of legal assistance in civil matters, with a number of countries which are otherwise party to this Convention and is party to the Hague Convention in a civil procedure since 01. Three. 1954. Accessing this Convention means, regardless of what we have bilateral agreements with other countries, it will simplify the provision of legal assistance in relations with and with the parties to this Convention, and will bring mutual practice to a level playing field. Access to the Convention will allow legal assistance in civil matters and relations with countries with which the Republic of Croatia does not have bilateral agreements, nor are the parties to the Hacke Convention in civil proceedings, and in relations with which international legal assistance is based on procedural rules in accordance with the principle of effective reciprocity established. The Convention is primarily governed by international legal assistance by the reference and execution of civil or commercial prisons with the aim of facilitating and improving the achievement of mutual legal cooperation. By obtaining evidence or by carrying out other judicial cooperation, i.e. by carrying out procedural actions such as hearing parties, witnesses, craftsmanship, obtaining information and data. In Chapter 2. The Conventions contain provisions on the possibility of carrying out evidence by representatives of diplomatic and consular staff in the territory of another Contracting State in which they act as an aid for the purposes of proceedings before the courts of the State they represent and in relation to the nationals of the State they represent. The Republic of Croatia, when making its instrument of access to depositaries pursuant to Article 33(1) of the Convention, will announce a single reserve related to Article 4(2) of the Convention, which requires that the application referred to us be made in the Croatian language or if it does not have to be accompanied by a translation into the Croatian language, in order to facilitate domestic judicial authorities, the conduct related to the execution of the application. Since the Convention prescribes the acceptance of a court in English or French. The other two reserves refer to Articles 16 and 18 of the Convention, which excludes the possibility of foreign diplomatic officials and consular agents in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to produce evidence in relation to nationals of the Republic of Croatia or third-country nationals. As I said, the Republic of Croatia will also make certain statements, and the first statement in Article 2 states that the Ministry of Justice as a central authority of the state administration, which is among other things carried out in the works of the conclusion and implementation of international legal aid contracts in civil matters, will be designated as a central authority for the reception of applicants. The statement relating to Article 8 states that the judicial staff of the requesting State may attend the execution of the application with the prior approval of the Ministry of Justice. The statement relating to Article 15 states that diplomatic officials and consular agents of other Contracting States may carry out evidence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as aid for the purposes of the proceedings before the courts of the State whose representatives are, without prior approval of the Croatian central authority, provided that the person to whom the evidence is being carried out is exclusively a national of the State which is represented, thus achieving a more effective provision of legal assistance. The statement in accordance with Article 23 states that the Republic of Croatia will not execute applications issued for the purpose of pre-trial disclosure of documents, as it is known in the countries... Whereas such a procedure is not in the spirit of the European continental legal system on which the legal order of the Republic of Croatia rests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, although we have bilateral agreements with many of these 47 countries that have accepted and confirmed this Convention, this Convention creates a better legal framework for mutual cooperation between the countries in providing this legal assistance in carrying out evidence in civil or commercial matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32904	Thank you. The Committee on Law, European Integration, Justice. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32905	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of the debate, I would point out that the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad in civil or commercial matters. The Convention in question provides for mechanisms and procedures that simplify the implementation of legal assistance related to the implementation of evidence in civil and commercial matters with a view to equating mutual practice in the relations of the States Parties. Since the Convention entered into force on 7 October 1972 and applies to the relations of a large number of countries with a total of 47 interests and the Republic of Croatia to complete its internal legal procedure as soon as possible in order to establish that the Convention, in accordance with its provisions and in relation to the Republic of Croatia, enters into force and that mechanisms and procedures provided for in the Convention may be applied between the Republic of Croatia and the other States of the Convention. Because even though the Republic of Croatia has concluded bilateral agreements on the provision of legal assistance in civil matters with a number of States parties to the Convention and is party to the Hague Convention on Civil Procedure since 1 March 1954 on the basis of a succession. The accession of the Convention will not only simplify the provision of legal assistance and bring mutual practice in relations with the States of the parties to the Convention but also enable legal assistance in civil matters and in relations with countries with which the Republic of Croatia does not have bilateral agreements or are parties to the Hague Convention and in relations with which international legal assistance is based on procedural rules on the principle of established factual reciprocity. The Convention itself provides for international legal assistance by sending and executing applicants in civil or commercial matters in order to facilitate and improve mutual judicial cooperation in civil or commercial matters by obtaining evidence or by carrying out other judicial cooperation or by carrying out procedural actions. The Convention also contains provisions on the obligation to determine the central authority of the Contracting State which undertakes to take the pleas from the judicial authority of the other Contracting State, on the content of the applicant, on the use of the language, presence and actions of providing international legal assistance to parties in the proceedings and their representatives, as well as the judicial staff of the body of the other Contracting State which requires the execution of the application. Those provisions on the possibility of carrying out evidence by a representative of diplomatic and consular staff in the territory of another Contracting State in which they exercise their duties but with the prior approval of the State or the competent authority in which they exercise their duties. In a specific case and in accordance with the provisions of Article 35 of the Convention in the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice would be designated as the central authority of the State Administration which, among other things, performs and implements international contracts in the field of international legal assistance in civil matters. Furthermore, in order to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and to facilitate the Croatian judicial authorities' conduct relating to the execution of the application in order to exclude the possibility for foreign diplomatic officials and consular agents in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to carry out evidence in relation to the nationals of the Republic of Croatia or third-country nationals and that the request received from the judicial authority of another Contracting State must be accompanied by a translation into the Croatian language. For the sake of this and bearing in mind that by confirming the Convention, its provisions become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will maintain the adoption of the Law attesting to the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad in civil or commercial matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32906	Thank you. Mrs. Danica Hursa's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32907	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of the Department of Justice, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be initiated by means of a procedure to confirm the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad in civil or commercial matters. The Republic of Croatia has been a member of the Hague Conference on International Private Law since 12 June 1995 and the party to the Statute of the Hague Conference since 1 October 1995. Although the Republic of Croatia has concluded bilateral agreements on the provision of legal assistance in civil matters with a number of States Parties to this Convention and is a party to the Hague Convention on Civil Procedure since 1 March 1954, the accession of the Convention shall be carried out with the aim of simplifying the provision of legal assistance in relations with States Parties to this Convention and the harmonisation of mutual practice. The Convention shall be governed by international legal assistance by means of reference and enforcement of applications in civil or commercial matters for the purpose of facilitating and improving mutual judicial cooperation in civil or commercial matters by obtaining evidence or by carrying out other judicial cooperation or by carrying out procedural actions such as hearings of parties, witnesses, craftsmanship, obtaining information, data and the like. The Convention shall further contain provisions on the obligation of the central authority of the State Contracting Party which undertakes to take notice of applications from the judicial authority of another Contracting State, on the content of the requesting State, on the use of the language, on the presence of actions to provide international legal assistance to parties in the proceedings and their representatives, and on the judicial staff of the other Contracting State requesting the execution of the application, and on the possibility of carrying out evidence by representatives of diplomatic and consular staff in the territory of another State of the Contracting State in which they exercise their duties. But with the approval of the State, or the competent authority in which they exercise their duties. The Republic of Croatia will declare a reserve with the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of Article 4(2) when laying down its depositary access document. Convention. It is required that the application be made in Croatian or accompanied by a translation into Croatian language to facilitate the conduct of Croatian judicial authorities related to the execution of the plea, and Articles 16 and 18. The Convention shall protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. The possibility of foreign diplomatic officials and consular agents in the territory of the Republic of Croatia shall be excluded in relation to nationals of the Republic of Croatia or third-country nationals. The Republic of Croatia will also, when making its accession documents, make certain statements related to Article 2, a decision to appoint the Ministry of Justice as the Central Authority of State which performs the tasks of the conclusion and implementation of international legal aid contracts in civil matters. In addition to Article 8 of the statement that the judicial staff of the requesting State may attend the execution of the application, with the prior approval of the Ministry of Justice. In addition to Article 15 of the statement that diplomatic officials and consular agents of other Contracting States may carry out evidence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as aid for the purposes of the proceedings before the courts of the State whose representatives are, without prior approval of the Ministry of Justice, provided that the person to whom the evidence is being carried out is a national of the State to whom legal aid can be made more effective. In addition to Article 23 of the decision that the Republic of Croatia will not execute applications issued for the purpose of pre-trial disclosure of documents as known in the countries... the system is not in the spirit of the European continental legal system on which the legal order of the Republic of Croatia rests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As pointed out in the draft law, the Republic of Croatia is a signator of significant international agreements regulating the area of international private law. The Hague Conference on International Private Law and the Hague Convention on Civil Procedure, and has effective co-operation with other signatories. Since the Republic of Croatia is currently in the phase of accession negotiations with the European Union, the importance of ratification and implementation of international agreements in the field of judicial co-operation, which constitutes the third pillar of the Menstricht Treaty, is undeniable to co-operation in the judiciary and in internal affairs. Nevertheless, it is important to mention several contradictions and indeterminates in the content of this Convention relating to discrepancies between respect for sovereignty and enforcement of the provisions of international law. First, as regards Article 9 relating to the methods and procedures of carrying out evidence, which do not comply with the internal legal system of the executing State, it is necessary to specify in more detail which methods and procedures would be unacceptable since the abuse of that decision could make it difficult for judicial cooperation to take place. With regard to Articles 15, 16 and 17 as regards the implementation of evidence by diplomatic officials or consular agents in the territory of a Contracting State in relation to nationals represented by or nationals of a third country, the States are left to choose whether to allow evidence to be carried out with prior approval or without authorisation for the purpose of effective and fair cooperation. It would be advisable to grant prior authorisation. Secondly, the provision of Article 23, according to which the Contracting State may declare that it will not execute applications issued for the purpose of the pre-determined disclosure of documents carried out in the countries... a system indicating certain restrictions in the possibility of judicial cooperation between the States of the continental legal system and those applying the U.S. and Great Britain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a third. Articles 27 and 28 highlight the possibility of a less restrictive practice of the Contracting State in respect of the manner and procedures of carrying out the evidence, and the conclusion of an agreement between two or more Contracting States allowing the derogation from the provisions of this Convention with regard to the way in which applications, languages which may be used, the presence of judicial staff in the execution of the pleas, the privileges and duties of witnesses to refuse to give a statement, as well as the fees and costs between the Contracting States. This enables States Parties to exercise greater freedom of action and to regulate mutual relations in the area of international private law, thus showing, on the one hand, respect for the sovereignty of the Contracting State and, on the other hand, calling into question the control of the compliance of mutual agreements between the Contracting States with the provisions of the Convention. As this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, the HNS club will support the law confirming the Convention in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32908	Thank you. SDP advocates' club, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32909	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club supports the adoption of the Law attesting the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad in civil and commercial matters, noting that it is a real shame that this Convention has not been confirmed before, since we know that in the countries of Western Europe it came into effect in the long term of 1970. What is the significance of this convention, and what does it mean for our citizens? I think it's crucial to say that in connection with this bill of law. In fact, our citizens often travel abroad, create different business, family relationships, and when it comes to civil or commercial disputes, then it is escalated with great costs, which is caused by this very element of foreignness that is being put into place in these civil and commercial matters, and in itself it is sensitive and the speed is being sought in status issues, in matters of child restraint. So it is crucial to speed up these procedures in a way that key evidence is done in another country. That's why here, at the SDP club, we notice in the assessment of the situation where the applicant indicated that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources, it simply is not true. When we see this particular chapter that is good, it is about carrying out evidence by diplomatic officials, consular agents and commissioners, when these jobs are approved by the Ministry of Justice, so not only by judicial authorities, but now such petitions, i.e. carrying out evidence in civil and commercial matters, will also be able to do diplomatic officials, consular agents or commissioners. Therefore, training, training of consular and diplomatic officials in this sense is important, but this is not indicated at all. The question, then, is what kind of validity these jobs are with, and they will surely be referred to these consular and diplomatic agents, the officers in which they will carry out the evidence. In fact, carrying out evidence is one of the most complex issues in any process at all, and then in civil and commercial matters. In particular, in some sensitive issues, in matters of high value, it is not right, setting up bad evidence may call into question the validity of the outcome of the whole process. Therefore, this seems quite a routine thing, but we do not think it is correct in the end that the means are not needed when it is really if we are serious and apply this law in a valid way, surely that this law, or draft law requires certain financial resources. The issue of education and the validity of such one evidence is imposed on the continuity, but this is not an opportunity, therefore, that is, this is exactly the opportunity to say about this bill of law is not just one law of technical nature that brings our legislation into line with the European Union's standards. But if we really do some things for our own sake, for our own sakes, and for the benefit of our citizens, then in such a more serious way we should have done it. Here is a serious complaint and a warning to the Government that, despite the fact that funds are not currently indicated here, it must ensure the education of diplomatic and consular staff with regard to the implementation of evidence in civil and commercial matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32910	Thank you. The club of HDZ representatives, Mr. MP, and the pardon is not, it is now an individual debate, yes, yes, the clubs have ended with debate, individual debate, Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32911	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So, before us is the Convention on the Performing of Evidence abroad, abroad, civil or commercial matters, so, which we need to confirm, it has been as already said in force since '72. A year. The basis for the adoption of the law on the confirmation of this Convention is set out in Article 139(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, By adopting this law, the provisions of the Convention will form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This law also harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and the confirmation of this Convention is provided for in the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2009 which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in February this year. The Convention regulates international legal assistance, by sending and executing a plea in civil or commercial matters in order to achieve mutual judicial cooperation, it primarily refers to obtaining evidence or conducting procedural actions, such as hearing witnesses, parties, obtaining certain data, skills, etc. The Convention shall also contain provisions on the content of the application, the use of the language, the determination of the competent national authority to receive applications from the competent authority of the other Contracting State, provisions on who may be present in the actions of providing international legal assistance to parties in the procedure, on the possibility of carrying out evidence by diplomatic officials, consular agents, commissioners, etc. Therefore, it is also proposed, with the adoption of this law, that, in addition to the Convention, the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands will declare the reserves related to Article 4(2) and Article 16. The 18th Conventions, as well as certain statements under Articles 2, 8, 15 and 23, which the Secretary of State spoke about at the outset, and I will not repeat them, but I will only say that I am of course in favour of them because they are absolutely logical and necessary. Since it is about confirming a convention on a phase that is not actually at this stage or possible to change, I will certainly support its adoption and emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32912	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32913	Thank you Vice-President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, and as predecessors, I, too, support the adoption of this law confirming the convention on the implementation of evidence abroad in civil and commercial matters, only because, except by then, it has been regulated for certain countries by bilateral contracts, we can now facilitate the implementation of evidence and other procedural actions that need to be carried out abroad. Since this is a contribution to the efficiency of the judiciary at this time when it is a significant item that can significantly improve the speed and quality of hearings of parties, witnesses, skills, procurement of information and other procedural actions that are necessary to be carried out abroad, I support this law and I think that an additional contribution to improving the efficiency of the judiciary is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32914	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. As far as I can see, the Act of Confirmation of the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad will be supported by civil or commercial matters because I see that it has been supported by all clubs. I thank everyone for the debate. I just want to say that it's been questioned if we're going to have the means to implement it. I would like to say once again, we are already implementing this Convention through bilateral agreements with a whole series of countries, a whole series of these 47, so that we already have the means, and by our budget, we count on that to be enough. If it's not enough of course we'll find the funds, but what we have in our estimates will be enough. And I don't think there's any obstacle to the implementation of this convention, a very important convention is not being questioned, and as it works with most of the 47 countries, so it's going to work with the rest of which we don't have bilateral agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32916	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32917	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad in Civil or Commercial Matters, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 334, the draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad in civil or commercial matters. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was passed by a majority vote with 102 votes in favour and 1 abstention. We move on to the final draft law amending the Law on electronic money institutions. It was an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. number 346. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. The amendment of the Legislative Committee was adopted during the debate and is not to be voted on. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on electronic money institutions. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law has been passed by most votes. 104 votes for, one abstention and one against along with accepted amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32919	We move to the next item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 325 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation and defence. State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence Zeljko Gorsic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The proposed amendments and additions to the law propose to regulate one of the conditions for admission to the active military service for the active military person more precisely. The conditions for candidates and candidates shall be leveled and the reception of persons who have been subject to a military obligation regulated by civil service shall be excluded and the person who has served a military term in the Republic of Croatia as a condition for admission to the active military service shall be determined. As a category of military personnel admitted to service under contract, it is proposed to allow soldiers to be profiled in the officer in time until the end of the second service contract. This would increase their motivation and positive competition and, above all, because this could include one or more participation in peacekeeping missions before transposing to the officers. The proposed amendments and additions in addition to regular conditions would also allow for the admission of officers to the service of those persons in the Armed Forces system such as officers, soldiers and civil servants who meet the other conditions for the reception of persons with a higher age limit than those who enter the military service for the first time, so persons from the labour market, cadets and scholarships. These people are well aware of the military system, which is why they are built, so they do not have to invest equally in their additional education and training as with other candidates. The permanent shift of the age limit as a condition for the reception of officers from the Croatian Armed Forces system would further stimulate existing staff for further education and training, thus improving the overall qualification structure of staff, while respecting the provisions governing professional development standards. The proposed amendments to the provisions of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are in line with the provisions of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is also in line with the Data Securitisation Act. The proposed amendments to a certain part of the law shall also be regulated in the section relating to the strict responsibility. The number of major transgressions to some new major offenses is expanding, and some of the existing ones are proposing to be changed. This proposal complements and amends certain provisions on strict responsibilities relating to limitation and strict penalties. Active military persons who are referred to education and other forms of training abroad in a privileged position compared to those who are educated in the country. Also in certain other situations of discharge from duties such as in the field of peace operations and missions, the status of sick persons as a result of an injury to work or disease as a result of the service of an active military person shall be paid or paid under duty prior to resolution. The proposed solution would equalise the rights of the active military personnel who are referred to education in the Republic of Croatia with those referred to abroad. The implementation of this law provides funding in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia at the level of the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this law by discussing it in two readings in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32921	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The defense committee? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Representatives of the Government. My colleagues and fellow MPs. In line with the adopted strategic documents in the area of defence, the strategic review of defence and the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, as well as the latest amendments to the Law on Defence and Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia adopted by this High House in the summer of 2007, there is another novel of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which we believe will contribute to further professionalisation and further strengthening of the Croatian Armed Forces. I would only briefly remind myself that the latest amendments to the Law on Defence are the possibility for the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the non-inviting of recruits on the obligation to serve the military deadline, which the decision has been made and which since 1 January 2008 the money has not been called upon to serve the military deadline and is made possible by introducing a suspension from the obligation to serve the military period for up to 30 years of life so that they can be referred to the voluntary service of the military deadline. Voluntary service can be given since the last amendments to the Law of Defence, the Law of Service, women who in this case are subject to a novice obligation and we already have the first generation of handbooks who have voluntarily served the military term so that we can be happy here to realize that this legal solution has come into practice. The Proposer proposes to regulate one of the conditions for admission to the active military service for the active military person, which is that the person has served military service in the Republic of Croatia. The conditions for candidates and candidates shall be uniformised and the reception of persons who have regulated the military obligation by civil service or by serving a military term outside the Republic of Croatia shall be excluded. In this way, the Republic of Croatia ensures the continuity, i.e. the sustainability of the personnel potential to complete the armed forces units of the Republic of Croatia. As a category of military personnel admitted to the contract service, it is proposed to enable the officers to be profiled in time until the end of the second service contract, thus increasing their motivation and positive competition, thus covering one or more participation in peace operations prior to the translation into the officers. The proposed amendments and additions in addition to the regular conditions would allow for the admission of officers to the officer's duties of those persons in the officer's armed forces system, soldiers and civil servants who meet the other conditions for admission of persons with a higher age limit, such as those who enter the military service for the first time, persons from the labour market, cadets or scholarships. This lack of such a legal provision has so far proved to be a major obstacle to the translation into the active military service of very high-quality people who worked in the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces system of the Republic of Croatia, but also the lack of legal personality prevented them from becoming high-quality personnel. These people are well aware of the military system, military systems are built, which is why they do not need to invest equally in their additional education and training as with other candidates coming from another sector. The continued shift of age limits as conditions for admission to officer duty of persons in the Armed Forces system would further stimulate existing staff for further education and training, thus improving the overall qualification structure of staff. It is evident that the age limit has been maintained for the admission of persons to active soldiers and market officers. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the laws in addition to the regular conditions would allow for the admission to the officer's duties of those persons in the Armed Forces system meeting the standards of professional development. It is these standards that this law recognises and detail in its rules. Professional development of active military personnel during the service takes place through continuous training and education, successful conduct of duties, especially higher than personal duties and promotion of rank, either military, officer or officer. The proposed amendments also comply with the provisions of the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces with the provisions of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees and the part of the provisions of the laws relating to professional preparation, as well as the Data Securitisation Act. As I prepare for today's agenda, I also refer to the recent amendments to the Law on the Defence of the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which this House adopted in 2007 somewhere in the summer. When we introduced major amendments to these proposals and amendments to the Law on Defence in the area of strict responsibility and organisational, i.e. in order to regulate the area of strict responsibility differently, that is to say, the procedure that has been implemented under the Criminal Procedure Act until then, in a different way, that is to say, to its implementation under the General Administrative Procedure Act. Certainly, and because one of the basic principles is that the military discipline is correct, complete and timely in the Armed Forces, and the purpose of the tight procedure is to be simple, to be quick, to be fair, because that way it will be effective. We see that these changes extend the number of major violations to some new major offenses, which is only a logical continuation because Croatia is strongly moving, i.e. it has adopted the professionalisation of the Armed Forces from the Croatian military personnel, i.e. Croatian soldiers will be sought more and more every day, both in terms of its personal qualities and in this context, its relationship with labour obligations. Active military obligations directed to education and other forms of training abroad were in a privileged position under current rules, compared to those being educated by the countries. Also, in certain other situations, discharges from duties such as in the mission's peacekeeping operation, the status of the sick as a consequence of injuries to work or disease, as a consequence of the service, the military personnel receive salary or salary compensation under duty prior to resolution. The proposed solution, by this law, would equalise the rights of the active military personnel who are being referred to education in the Republic of Croatia with those who are being trained abroad. The Croatian Ministry of Defence in its system of education has quality military schools, prestigious military schools to which, apart from Croatian soldiers, members of the armed forces of our friendly countries and this way and this amendment of the law are absolutely given confirmation of the quality of the Croatian education system in terms of the needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence and other parts of the state administration. The defence reform process involves the development of modern, efficient, well-trained and equipped, mobile, immovable and highly affordable forces. So-called forces will be able to engage within different missions, tasks in the country and abroad. Note, Croatian Armed Forces according to target size according to the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces adopted by this High House, will have 16 thousand active military personnel, up to 6,000 contract reservers and 2,000 voluntary handbooks will be and are fully professional. According to the plan, 40% of the power will be ready for deployment, 8% of the power is placed in operations or is high-level ready to move. NATO membership means adapting and transforming our military system to the highest standards. The invitation and the very act of Croatia's NATO entry is a confirmation of both international affirmation and international confirmation that Croatian Armed Forces have reached these highest standards. Behind us and before us are years of defence reform because it is known that the defence system is in permanent transformation, the defence system is in permanent reform, and the results are clearly visible from the optimization of the number of members of the Armed Forces, the adoption of the system, collective defence, equipment and modernisation of the Armed Forces to rationalising the costs of defence and increasing the transparency of the defence system in the achievement of all missions and tasks of the Armed Forces. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32923	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32924	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have heard that because of the weaker fill of the Armed Forces to the officers and officers, it is proposed that Article 3, Article 4, be abolished which they speak of. Therefore, the upper age limit for members of the Armed Forces and employees of the Ministry of Defence is changed. The Proposer cites the problem of completeness, but we are not explained what is essentially done to resolve this problem permanently and in quality. This proposal raises the age limit and opens the door to increasing the age of officers and officers who, according to us in the Croatian People's Party Club, are not well. Professional development of someone who starts a military career at 35 or 40 is certainly not good for Armed Forces. If at this point it's necessary to do it for the purpose of filling the Armed Forces, then we just need it to be a temporary solution. Article 5 provides for a new reduction of the criteria for becoming an officer of the Armed Forces. However, as I said in Article 3 above, the terms and conditions laid down in this law are discussed in this Article 5. The article discusses the prescribed conditions to be abolished and left to the lower act to the standards of professional development. Of course, a lower act makes it easier to lower the criteria further. Article 13 shows that there is a significant reduction in the criteria for the appointment of presidents and judges of military courts. They are proposed as a condition for the appointment of a state expert exam, not a judicial exam by a colleague and a colleague. I repeat, therefore, a state expert exam is proposed, not a judicial exam which is incomparable. The state's professional exam has more to do with the administration than with the trial, and that's two very different things. The powers of military tighter courts are not small. They take away acts, decide to suspend further military service, etc. The problem is increased by the proposed possibility of conducting a parallel tightening procedure and in the event of an infringement procedure. There is an increase of colleagues and colleagues in the problem of uncoordinated court decisions in two separate procedures and options, I would say cartoon decisions and outcomes. This proposal lowers the conditions for the appointment of judges, even the president of the military court, which necessarily leads to their quality of work. These proposals for changes in Articles 3, 4, 5 and 13 deserve to be discussed, they deserve a joint comment. This is about firefighting measures against the problem of filling the above mentioned places by reducing the criteria in one, second, third case. It's an absolutely wrong path and it's a sign of a failure so far. These problems should be tackled by systematic staff and education policy, we repeat systematic, human and educational policy, including an enormous increase in staff costs, not by reducing criteria. Often changes in the conditions of professional development have a negative impact on the quality of professional development and healthy motivation of members of the Armed Forces. Other minor changes should be made to the amendments in Article 9 which introduce and seek and borrow loans from members of the Armed Forces and employees as a major violation. The problem of mutual responsibility of members of the ministry and the Armed Forces is not negligible, but it is problematic to introduce a loan as a major violation. According to the proposal, it's a harmless loan, for example, for buying cigarettes and sandwiches, because someone forgot their wallet that day, a tight violation. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues from the HNS Club, we suggest that there be a significant improvement in this text, especially in the section of the Systemic Staff and Educational Policy of the Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32925	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32926	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, fellow MPs. Here I am about to discuss my colleagues from the HNS, he was talking about Article 5 about some significant reduced criteria for officers, future Croatian Army officers. Why did that happen? Because today perhaps Mr. Roncevic knows the same thing, we must fire a thousand 200 soldiers, officers from the Croatian Army by the end of the year. That is why we now have the last reform of the Croatian Army, so we need to get somewhere on 18 thousand 200 people all together, and we have 2,000 700 requests for the release of soldiers, officers and officers today from the Croatian Army for discharge from the Croatian Army under Article 6.a. It's just that I'm an ex-military and I know these problems very well we have serious problems with the staff, with the officer's staff, especially since our problem, the cadet is not very successful, and it's seen here in the proposal itself, changing the bill where it's said it's not the best thing. I would even let that happen, and I think it's okay, because we have very experienced officers who have passed the Homeland War and who have ended schools in the meantime, and I think in the meantime, that it's totally office and that we should allow these people, given the years of war experience, to become potentially good officers. And to say that practice is also in other countries. I know a good time experience... The army after Vietnam, then the British. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The British have a lot of problems today. But I'll talk about it later about how they hire their retired officers, and we don't. This proposal is already the fifth amendment to the Law on Armed Forces Services of the Republic of Croatia. From 2002 to today, this has been changed several times by various segments, depending on the situations and things that have imposed these changes themselves. Sometimes it was a success, sometimes a failure. Of course, the boys of the Department of Defense know best how successful that was, as far as it wasn't. And now, of course, we have this fifth change that in itself these few, that hasn't changed a lot of articles, and it's not bad. I'll say a few things later on about these things and about those that I think should be fixed. And speaking of which, the SDP club will, of course, support these amendments and amendments to the law. There are things that are good that regulate certain things in a better and better way than before. And as for these positive things, they regulate the conditions for entry into the service. That's okay. Although it's not some primary thing for the Armed Forces. He's got a lot bigger and more serious problems. That it's possible for soldiers to make more contracts, which is very important. So far, this has been because it's very important in this sense because a soldier has so far been unable to advance after a certain contract. That's good because now we're giving soldiers young boys the opportunity to have two to three contracts so they can get to the officer's rank and stay longer in the very system of armed forces because we have really big problems with our people being sent on missions. For example, military police are spinning the same people, we don't have enough personnel, we don't have enough personnel, we don't have enough soldiers, we don't have an officer who knows languages, we don't have enough. We have here a saying of the real problems that have been solved, which are standing before us but the Croatian army has had other problems so she solved them I say over the past years. What I think should be discussed and things that are like this for a discussion and that we can talk about is a few articles that I have seen that should be fixed in that. For example, Article 6 in my opinion is quite vague, which speaks of keeping military secrets. We've had a lot of problems in the past, they know gentlemen here, and we all know together that it's not only from the MORH, but also from the MUP and from other services, the information has been constantly leaking and we have a lot of problems. I don't think there's a clear enough and precise indication of the responsibility of those people who eventually come out with some kind of military secret and military information out there. Their responsibility is very important to me. And that's the act of releasing secrets. Maybe a month ago, I was at the M.O.A.'s interview three nights ago, and I got a call from the M.O.P. to talk about... the documents and that's of course, Operation Storm was a state secret, no one contacted me from the MORH and freed me from certain obligations to keep or keep military secrets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I came there and I said what I thought was supposed to say and I could say anything, both wrong and wrong. I think that should be regulated specifically and that's one very serious thing, and we'll always have trouble keeping these secrets. Also, in Article 9, they had already spoken of this before people, a major offense. That's where they're listed. I would especially refer to this one. He says an unwarranted absence from the service or a two-to-five-day duty. It's too much for me. In the war, we knew exactly where every soldier is within two days. That's just desertion for me, then you have to cut it down. It doesn't make sense that today, given the system of connections, the system of communication, to the modernity of complete society, we give the man that for five days does not report to his commander. It's desertion to me, and I think it needs to be changed, and it needs to be cut down to the minimum because I don't think there's any need. In any case, he can always contact where he is and what happened to him if he has any problems. Of course, for me, Article 13 is one way of discussing it, but I guess it was taken into account by the representatives of the MORH. I don't know if we have a problem with that frame, if we're having trouble finding people who can be good... Judges and I don't know what the situation is down there but in any case, it would be much better if these people had passed a judicial exam and had certain experience in the business and could be successful and act in that field. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also in Article 14, the same should be seen, we have had a practice so far which I think was very negative that the Ministry of Defence sent an officer for several years for a certain service to another ministry and that man who would not spend more than eight years on second duty could have no problem getting some act later in accordance with the Law on Armed Forces. I think that this should be regulated in particular, and I find it problematic to have this long absence from my special and professional job, and to regulate that this person cannot have special benefits during that period and especially insist on the act because he is simply not on duty to behave. I noticed it here and I found it very interesting and in one way and I was saying in my own time that the program "Cadet" is not very good for the Croatian Army. So these are people who today, especially today when we have a lot of problems with the officers, we have a lot of requests to leave the Croatian Army. People who graduate from college and their only military education is a six-month course on Blackbeard. They pass, finish the officer's school. I think it's very small and not enough and that it can't get a complete person. We who have passed the Homeland War and who have stood as officers in the war know how many years and experiences it takes for one person to be very quality, so that you can successfully command with water, tithe, water, satin, further and other duties in the Croatian Army. I can imagine this officer who, after completing his six-month course on Blackwater, comes with one water in Afghanistan. He's not simply capable, he doesn't know the system, he's not experienced and he can't lead our boys in such conditions and in such situations. And what I stand for and what I propose, and especially I repeat today, we have 2,000, 700 requests for discharge from the Croatian Army, mostly by officers. That's one too many numbers, we're going to have one big problem with the frames. I've spoken here several times and I repeat that we should consider forming a military academy exclusively for special forces, means relatives. We have experienced officers who have passed the Homeland War, we have experienced lecturers who could very easily and very quickly train our good officer. We've had a lot of problems with people who've been finishing military schools outside, for example at West Point. I had a few men in the brigade who couldn't socialize after five years in America. It's a completely different system, a completely different army. They come into our system, they've had problems, and a lot of people have been in this way, and it's very rudely self-interrupting contracts with the MOTH, and it's been running from the system itself. I think that we need to rely most on our own staff in order for this military academy to be very good, in this way we would have a good perspective and the future, there might be other people to join the Croatian army, quality people, and I think that in that context we should think and take certain measures because I say this seriously, this is one serious problem. Today, we have 2,000 700 demands from people asking to be released from the Croatian Army. This will make it a repeat human wasteland, we will have problems in future missions if they are serious missions and NATO is known to be a major challenge. We're in NATO. We can have some other assignments tomorrow. And I appeal to the Department of Defense to consider giving births, special forces, to think slowly about forming a high school that would give them needed military dril and needed military knowledge. As I said many times we have changed this Law on Armed Forces so far, I think it is a slow time to think about the new things that have happened in the Croatian Army, to think about a whole new law on service in the armed forces. Often changes, frequent changes in me of course are good and correct things better than before but are not ultimately good. I think we should look slowly and think about making one final law, see what our challenges are in the future. So we have entered NATO, there are a lot of things waiting for us and many things, although we have passed several reforms once successful, once failed reforms of the Croatian Army, which have affected the Croatian Army, but in any case, one of the reasons may be for a new law, that is NATO and the new challenges that will come after this, only, I say, that will certainly bring new things, a lot of new things in the Croatian Army that we will have to change the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Armed Forces Act again, and I think that this should be in a serious, broad debate, in the Defence Committee of the Ministry of Defence, the Chief Staff, slowly thinking that in the end, somehow, it all come down to one good thing. What I also want to say and what we haven't dealt with well, and I have to insist on that, and I'm going to have the same as the representative to file certain things, and I don't think the situation in the event of death is well solved, tomorrow it can happen up in Afghanistan at the Golan High School that a member of the Croatian Army dies, he has, there are rules on compensation for damages but, in my opinion, it's not enough, we've greatly solved the pyrotechnics, the Law on... demining where we have allowed these people in the event of severe injury, severe wounding means the death to be applied to them by the Law on Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there should also be thought the same way that through this new law or some new changes urgently to the future and the military is such a very risky thing and there can always be some kind of evil, that these people are somehow protected because there is not enough compensation if he dies up in the field somewhere for his family and for the children he probably has. We must also apply and begin to think about these people being composing in the Law on Croatian Defences as we have such a law, people who were in the Homeland War. Also one thing, think about it, the boys from the Ministry of Defence and that's a medal, for every military operation the Croatian Army would have to get a medal, it's modeling to the standard, NATO standard, we don't have, we've been in Afghanistan for almost two years, I don't have a medal Afghanistan, I don't have a medal to golan highorvan, and it should be as soon as possible and referred to the procedure and it would also be a good contribution to the morals of those people up there. And lastly, retired officers, practice, the experience of all the countries of the world from New Zealand, Australia, Britain, the United States is to use retired officers. We now have a wasteland in the frames, we have top officers, we have top fighters, we have special forces, I'll compare it to the pit bull when you train him to fight every day, every day and let him out on the street alone will always bite someone. We have terrible people we can hire and the Ministry of Defense must think about allowing such people to work after the service because we can use them for operations that are not high risk, peace operations if we don't have enough personnel, and some other things, of course, we'll have a chance to talk more about it when this year's report on the defence forces. I would ask the Ministry of Defence to also consider the involvement of retired officers in various duties, I say by example of all other countries of the world and NATO countries because they are people with experience of leadership, they are good managers and I think it's a shame that they are wandering, that they have no business, that they are walking without any meaning. I say, the SDP will support this proposal, these changes are short, they're not some kind of serious change, but in any case we need to discuss them, we need to discuss. I'd like to ask the Department of Defense to take a little bit of this stuff, about a few articles that I said, to take care of and to accept the suggestions that I made on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32927	Thank you. The HSS club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32928	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party supports the intensification of the bill and some of its solutions but also recognised some open issues whose closure should be in the role of improving the proposed solutions. Where we see open questions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces, by adding new items in Articles 24 and 25 of the Law, extends the circle of persons who may be admitted to the service of an active officer and officers by moving the age limit. In this regard, there is either the danger that the excessive application of such a provision will lead to a deterioration of the age structure that is otherwise unfavourable. And if those provisions contain a certain limitation in the light of compliance with professional development standards, it may be better if the law explicitly lists what is the final age limit for the reception of a person in the active military service to the duty of an officer, or an officer, instead of leaving it to the defence minister to resolve the sublaw. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal The law of compliance with the Data Securitisation Act. For the same reason, however, Article 9 should then be amended in accordance with Article 58. The law, which lists the major offences and amends the provisions on the protection of classified information into the confidentiality of classified data. Article 13 The draft law amends the two provisions of Article 82 of the Law which have been prescribed that the presidents and judges of military court must have passed a judicial examination. The proposed amendment changes such a condition and will now be sufficient for those persons to have a state expert exam. A change like this can only lead to a fall in the level of expertise in the conduct of tight procedures. Speaking of the category of national expert examinations, we are of the opinion that the state expert exam should be carried out by all active military personnel on duty in the administrative section of the Ministry of Defence. For example, the obligation to pass a state-run professional exam in addition to civil servants and tenants have police officers and customs officers. Therefore, we do not see the reason why the military personnel would be to release the state's expert exam. Once again, we note that we primarily only think of active military personnel who are on duty in the administrative section of the Ministry of Defence, although it may also be debated about officers in the Armed Forces service. It is known that some of the military personnel are on duty in the administrative part of the MORH are continuously and for more than 10 years a large part and in various management positions. Article 10 is amended as follows: However, one of the harsh sentences that is problematic and remains a measure of military detention. The question arises whether such a provision is contrary to Article 22. A constitution that says no one can be taken away or restricted to freedom unless it is laid down by law on what the court decides. Military detention is also a restriction of freedom and a body which, under the provisions of the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, decides not to court. Looking at the overall, these amendments and additions to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia introduce some minor changes in the field of reception in the service, not too important changes in the area of strict responsibility and some terminology, primarily the one related to the Bologna Process. We at the HSS Club state and believe that it is still possible to intervene and cover some amendments and additions to laws that may not yet be covered by this proposal. And above all, we think that it is possible to regulate certain categories of staff, such as military specialists, regulate the issue of motivational means to obtain high-quality highly educated personnel and regulate issues relating to the action of members of the Armed Forces in the international environment, and related to NATO membership. First of all, we think about the selection of personnel, the criteria for this right and obligations during work with international organisations, career management and then return. Here is the view that it is possible to intervene further in these amendments and additions to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia until the second reading and to clearly improve this proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32929	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And in this law, a lot has been said, and we don't need to be a problem at all if this law and in this mandate we're going to do it again. I don't think my parliamentary representatives and people in the Republic of Croatia have any fear at all in the formation of the Croatian Armed Forces and that they can be so far as they have shown in the Homeland War, and most recently, when from one great war machine, giants have come into a peaceful formation and serve us all in the Republic of Croatia, Afghanistan and in all the missions they carry out all over the world. The armed forces officer is certainly at a high level, a joint profession, experience, a good team when it comes to the land army headed by Kruljić, with young generals who have been promoted these days. And I don't think there's any concern that this law shouldn't be passed because it's their need from the ground itself, from the military, from the military polygons, from Afghanistan and from all those missions that are coming to us. I think that the Armed Forces in the Republic of Croatia have shown that they are one of the most mature components of our society and that they should congratulate all these and young soldiers who took the oath yesterday, yesterday, and also those of the same warriors who took the oath at the time of the Homeland War. What can be done to honor us, both the Ministry of Defence and former Minister Rončević and Minister Vukelic today, when we see that, besides this reconstruction, we can see that our Croatian Army is finally wearing a Croatian uniform, that the Croatian Army is carrying a Croatian gun, a Croatian machine gun, and that Croatian machinery room will come out of Djura Djakovic within a year. So we can be completely satisfied with all these people, meaning from the main headquarters through the mainland army. What needs to be done is certain to strengthen the air force, or sea, of our river power, but we need more money for that. And I don't see in this law, in all these articles, nothing that can be a hindrance to the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and we can say that these soldiers, officers and officers, that they are the pride of all of us in the Republic of Croatia and that with our flag on their shoulders they simply pass on what is quality in the Republic of Croatia, that they are good ambassadors all over the world. And with regard to all these things I said and what I read in this law and what I know about Croatian soldiers on polygons, in training centres and not to say in the dormitory, I fully support this law and it won't be difficult for us if we have to make one more additions to the law in order to improve not only the Armed Forces but to help people who implement those laws in realisation themselves to be as successful as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32931	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Zeljko Goršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32932	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here I would just like to thank everyone who has therefore taken part today in this debate on the proposal to amend and supplement this law. I'd just like to answer a few of the important things that I've been able to notice here, which is in front of the HNS club was an observation that the age limit is increasing. It's not a matter, you may have pulled something out of context, but it's not an increase in age limit, but it's about persons in service who are already in service as soldiers, officers or civil servants-furtherers and they have to be admitted only if they're in line with professional development standards. Therefore, there is no abuse or excessive application, too wide the application of this provision of the law. Second, as far as the trial is concerned. It is about the fact that it is not about criminal law now, but about the conduct of administrative proceedings and therefore the need to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. This therefore needs to be passed a state expert exam, which is the objective of this amendment. As for the SDP Club and Mr of Assembly Representative Kotromanović, it is therefore a matter of harmonising with the Data Securitisation Act which we can say is a general law, and in detail this area has been resolved by the Defence Minister's regulations on the confidentiality of defence data. So here's the thing about the confidentiality rule. The reduction in the number of active military personnel has been done for years and is planned. Every year, there's a plan for separation, and it won't happen that 2700 or I don't know how many thousands of people leave the Department of Defense or the Chief Staff. We've been doing it since 2003 and to this day isolated, but I say planically, over 20,000 active military personnel making officers, being officers, being soldiers. Therefore, there is no need to be afraid that these amendments and additions to the law may disrupt age limits, so perhaps we will disrupt the educational structure. Therefore, there is no need to be afraid. Before adopting these amendments and additions, we carefully considered it so that we would eventually not violate the standards we have reached, but this is only done to improve and I think this law is good. However, we will take another look at what is said today and prepare for a second reading to correct this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32933	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32934	Third, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 325, the proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted; 2. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get involved and vote for this conclusion. The result? This bill was adopted unanimously by 98 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32935	We are going to the next item - Proposed law on police affairs and powers, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 329 Proposer is Government, first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Justice, Internal Policy and National Security, European Integration, the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32936	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you a proposal for a new Law on Police Affairs and Powers. The proposal for this law is expressed in order to improve the effectiveness of police work, improve the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, and modernise the formation of police affairs. One of the reasons for the adoption of the new Law on Police Authorities is also the new Law on Criminal Procedure, one of which is to be applied on July 1st, and it was necessary to regulate certain relations in the Law on Police Affairs and Powers in order to ensure that the law and the conduct of the police are compatible with the new Criminal Procedure Act. In the drafting of this bill, particular consideration was given to respecting international standards of police conduct as well as police legislation systems in European countries, and this law is in line with the acquis of the European Union. In relation to the applicable Police Act, which is set out as a comprehensive police law, this bill is only adhered to provisions on police affairs and powers, while the current Police Act also contained provisions on working relations, the establishment and other things that do not directly apply to police affairs and powers. We believe that such an arrangement was necessary because one law that is publicly available, which is publicly known was prescribed only police treatment and police affairs, since police conduct which could significantly affect human rights and freedoms, and therefore it was necessary for police officers to get their own law that would regulate police conduct or police affairs and powers, and on the other hand that citizens know what they can expect from the police to act. The purpose of this law is to make police treatment clear, simpler, faster and more economical. Police work must be precisely arranged in situations where fundamental rights and freedoms are covered by it. But also when these rights and freedoms are the cause and the subject of protection that are achieved by the conduct of police affairs. This law has for the first time defined certain concepts, so that police officers would know exactly what their limits are, what the content of their affairs and powers are. But in order for citizens, i.e. other bodies and competent institutions, to be unequivocally referred to the contents of police affairs of individual institutes and the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. This is where police affairs and powers are listed in this law. The law is divided into several heads, and the central head is the one who is completely and systematically regulated by police powers and affairs. First of all, it sought to include powers that the police regularly achieve the objectives of removing dangers, preventing criminal offences and violations, and cooperation with other bodies and citizens. It noted that the current Police Law envisioned 17 police powers, while the law, or the bill, provides for 24 police powers. However, it is important here to point out that there are no important new police powers, that there is no increase in repression, but that the existing police powers are nomotechnically and contentically, normically arranged in a different way to make them more logically connected, to be clearer, to be precise, so that even the police officers have no doubts about their application, and so that citizens can expect in advance what a police officer can do and how to act. There's only one brand-new police authority, which is the use of other people's means of transport and communication. I will only briefly list what police powers are and whether certain changes have been made in relation to the content of police powers in relation to the state of the current Police Act. The first and second powers are the verification and identification of persons and objects and the invitation. There has been no significant change here compared to the current law. The third power of entry has also been extended to bring in to make the difference between bringing in and bringing in. In fact, there have been very often in practice confusion which is bringing what is being brought in. The difference according to the introduction is that the bringing is done exclusively on the basis of written orders, while detention is done without written orders and most often that term has been used in a Colloquian manner for bringing in. It made a certain mistake. We believe that by marking the difference between bringing in and bringing in things we have simplified and made it more transparent and clear. The fourth power is a search for persons and objects and is not significantly different from. The fourth is a search for persons and objects. The fifth power is a temporary restriction on freedom of movement and are not significantly different from the current and two police powers under the existing law. The sixth power has changed the name to give warnings and orders because such a termological provision was made in Article 2 of this Law and it is clearer and more precise in our opinion. The seventh power of temporary confiscation of the case has been elaborated in a way that, in the name of powers, temporary confiscation and sale of cases, the pointed and authority of the police to temporarily withdraw the items and sell them while in the corresponding provisions, it is more clear that the police are authorised to suspend the subject where it is prescribed by this other law as well as in the taxing numbered cases. The eighth power of polygraph testing has been renamed to a polygraph test because it is more precise and accurate. In the ninth power review of the premises, facilities and documentation, there was separation of this authority under two special powers, review of the documentation, and entry and review of the facilities and premises. This is particularly important because of the new Criminal Procedure Act, since police and police investigators will have new roles, new powers and these powers will be particularly important in the fight against organised crime and corruption. Then it's determined to enter someone else's home. There has been a lot of controversy around this authority, but I must point out here that this is not a new authority. This authority was already regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act, and it does not in any way violate home integrity because it is precisely, precisely, taxingly listed in which cases the police, or police officer, may enter the home, but rather not for inspection and search, but for four taxing reasons. The 10th Authority, review of persons, objects and means of transport experienced substantive changes. Now the police officer is authorized to examine the person and object that the person carries with him and the means of transport when it is necessary to find objects similar to the attack or self-harm. According to this proposal, a police officer may carry out an examination of persons, objects and means of transport when it is necessary to prevent the escape of the perpetrator of a criminal offence for which it is being prosecuted under official duty when it is necessary to detect traces of a criminal offence or other evidence and where it is necessary to protect general security. In the case of the 11th power, insurance and inspection of the venue, a change in the name was made, so that this authority, the name of this power, is the insurance of the place of events. It is also normatively and unambiguously more precisely arranged, so that from the very name of authority it can detect what the police under that authority can do, or what powers it has in its dealings. The 12th power is to receive applications which are an extended name in the receipt of applications, submission of criminal applications and reports and the content of additions to the relevant provisions have been made in the sense that police conduct is prescribed when notified by telephone, other telecommunications or oral means. It is more clear that police actions are carried out when criminal charges are filed or the results show that a criminal offence has been committed that is being prosecuted in a private lawsuit or that the event has no characterisation of a criminal offence and is a criminal offence against honor and reputation. This is also done primarily with the purpose that both the police and the state's attorney's office should be relieved of unnecessary treatment in cases where it is not a criminal offence, i.e. it is a criminal offence in which the police and the state's attorneys are being prosecuted in order to relieve them from unnecessary accumulation of unfounded criminal charges and that they could indeed deal with those cases and cases where it is clear and evident that serious criminal offences are involved, above all the most serious criminal offences and criminal offences and organised crime. As far as the 13th powers are concerned, the public calling of prizes has not changed in substance. In the case of the 14th power, the recording in public places has been noted that public places can be recorded by audio and video devices to prevent criminal offences being prosecuted by official duty and that the area of state border surveillance and border crossings can be filmed. The use of coercion funds did not experience more significant material differences, but normative and nomotechnical to make it easier for police officers to understand the situation when they need to apply the means of coercion, to apply them in a legal and legal way, so that they would not be put into a situation that, because of ignorance or misunderstandings, they would violate the law and use inadequate means of coercion, or not to apply them in an inappropriate manner. The 16th power, the protection of victims of criminal offences and other persons has not been changed in relation to the applicable law. With the 17th power to collect, process and use personal data. That power has seen a lot of content differences. Namely, this is a very sensitive area, and as I said, we wanted first of all to define police powers more precisely, more precisely, to define police conduct, to give the police the possibility of more effective treatment, but not at the expense of human rights and freedoms, and we wanted in any way to prevent and prevent any possibility or danger from violating fundamental human rights and freedoms, and therefore we predetermined this head, or this police authority, normatively and meaningfully, in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, but also with other regulations that regulate the collection, holding and use of other data, not only personal data. The method of applying the suspension notice is listed as a special authority of the police, so it is separated from other powers as it has been so far. The method of carrying out undercover police actions, observation, escorts, traps is listed in the catalogue of power in this bill as a special authority of the police, precisely because it would unequivocally know when police may apply certain police powers in a hidden manner. The power to verify the statute of limitations of persecution... and the implementation of a water facility under the applicable law has not been treated as a special authority of the police. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, since there are plenty of police in these actions, we felt the same need to normize it as a separate authority. As the sole new authority of the police, this bill provides for the use of a foreign means of transport and a telecommunications device to transport a person who is at risk of life or to prevent a criminal offence being prosecuted by official duty or the persecution of the perpetrator of such a criminal offence when otherwise impossible to carry out that operation, the police are authorised without the consent of the person to use its vehicle. Of course, this is also foreseen as an exceptional police authority which in no way can lead to the will of police officers in its application and violation of private property rights, but is precisely foreseen in which crisis situations police may use a foreign means of transport and a telecommunications device. This was just a brief review of the normative and content arrangements of police affairs and powers. I said what were the reasons and motives for the adoption of this law, and we believe that such a law, possibly with certain changes, should the need that we observe in today's debate arise, will give the police the instruments to act more effectively. In fact, we are not intended at all to increase efficiency through increased repression. We have not introduced any new police powers that would lead to a significant increase in police repression, but above all we have normatively, contentally and nomotechnically arranged police powers in such a way as to ensure that the police officers are in advance safe, but must act and ensure that citizens are equally secure in advance and that the police are able to and must act against them. We believe that this law is good in this very way that the police will be more effective, but not at the expense of human rights violations and freedoms, but this law will also require the education and training of police officers, in order to act more professionally, in order to be more educated and the Ministry of Interior but also to work before the adoption of this law a comprehensive education of police officers, just so that police officers are absolutely prepared after the adoption of this law to do so. Of course, due to the new Criminal Procedure Act, relations between police officers and the state's attorney's office will be different. State lawyers are also involved in this education. So this business has been approached very seriously. This law has not been any reaction hastened to several tragic events that have occurred in the past few months, but has been being prepared for months. Experts from the Ministry of the Interior, criminal officials, university professors of criminal law, experts from the State's Attorney's Office also participated in his preparation and production, so we believe that this law is good. That this law, after its adoption, will give new instruments to the police to be more effective, but that the security of rights and freedoms of citizens are in no way threatened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32937	Thank you. Legislative Committee, Justice Committee. The chairman of the board, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32938	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry. At the 27th session held on 19 May 2009, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Police Affairs and Powers, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee discussed the draft law as an interested working body. In his opening statement, the president pointed out that the objective of this legislative proposal, improving the effectiveness of police work, protecting fundamental rights and freedoms, modernising the structure of police affairs, harmonising with international standards and police legislation systems of European countries, is to comply with the amendments to criminal and criminal proceedings. This proposal changes the order so far in a way that police affairs and police powers are regulated by a special law. The proposal fully and systematically prescribes 25 police powers, and a special explanation is given for new police powers. The board members supported the adoption of the law. They stressed that its adoption is a significant shift towards the legal certainty of citizens, as police powers are defined by law rather than by sublegal acts as it has been so far. They stressed the importance of this proposal in the area of effective detection of criminal offences, taking measures to eliminate dangers and prevent criminal offences and offences, police actions in accordance with the newspapers and the rules of criminal proceedings. The proposal should respond to the requirement to improve police efficiency, timely interventions, the safety of citizens in the direction of prevention, with reduced entanglement in fundamental rights and freedoms. The objection to the lack of a comparative representation of how far the legislative framework has been sufficient for the effective action of the police, i.e. that the paper is proposed in relation to the existing law as well as the objection that the applicant should benefit from a comparative analysis and demonstration of police organisation, financing, independence in work, the efficiency of police in other European countries. The proposal for a Law on Police Affairs and Police Authorities highlights the following comments, proposals and opinions. A precise nomotechnical regulation of the law is proposed to remove different interpretations in practice. For example, in Article 13, police powers are taxed. It is therefore unnecessary to point 25, which reads "the second power prescribed by law" or Article 59. "regulatory cases shall be regulated where a police officer may suspend the case temporarily" and point 4. shall contain "when specified by specific regulations" or Article 74. "it is regulated when a police officer can conduct an examination of someone's home." And in point 5, it shall contain a provision when specified by a specific regulation. The opinion is that the law in eaten provisions which are the basis for the adoption of sublegal acts by the Minister should contain at least the basic elements of the draft of that sublaw. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 5 is proposed to be regulated in such a way as to ensure that a police officer acts taking into account the extent between the powers he is taking and the objective of performing police work. A police officer will always apply police authority to undermine human rights and freedoms to the least, and achieves the goal of doing police work. In the text of the law instead of the word "base of doubt", we should use "the basics of doubt". It is proposed to regulate and align the provisions of Chapter 4 more precisely with the provisions on criminal records according to and provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. It is proposed to provide for the conduct of a police officer in a situation where a person is opposed to the use of the means of transport or the telecommunications device used. In paragraph 4, instead of the word "other costs", prescribe "the compensation of potential damage". It is pointed out that the proposed provision of Article 61(2) of point 4 constitutes an infringement of the right of ownership, if the owner of the case cannot be established, matters should be treated as lost things and should be handed over to the founding office. It is also proposed that Articles 73 and 74 uniformise the nootechnic expression in order to facilitate the monitoring of the law. The opinion is that, with the proposed police powers and the general rules of their application, provisions on control and control of their application should also be sterilised. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided by 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions. The proposal for a Law on Police Affairs and Powers and any objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the motions for the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32939	Thank you. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32940	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposal for this law has been developed to improve the effectiveness of police work, improve the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms and modernise the formation of police affairs. In particular, it took care to comply with international standards of police conduct as well as police legislation systems in European countries. Also in order to regulate the new rules on police conduct and police powers, a new order of relations in the repressive procedures adopted by the new Criminal Procedure Act was also taken into account. It should be said that, in relation to the current Police Act, which has been conceived as a comprehensive police law, the bill now contains only provisions on police affairs and powers, while police organisation issues as said by the government's representative of the tight and labour legal status of police officers will be subject to the regulation of a special law. The purpose of this bill is to make police treatment clear, to make it simpler, faster and more economical. Police work must be precisely arranged, especially in situations where it involves fundamental rights and freedoms but also when these rights and freedoms are a cause and the subject of protection that is achieved by the conduct of police work. This bill is divided into seven chapters, the opening provisions stressed that the law is central but not the only source that prescribes police affairs and police powers. In addition, the meaning of certain concepts used in the law is prescribed as to what it is intended for those concepts and the provisions of the law to always be regulated in one sense and taking care of the nearby areas governed by other regulations. Furthermore, the following provisions, which list coalition transactions, clarify the general rules for their implementation. The provisions on taxation, the starting point of police work, official duty, order, order, proportionality of the occasion and the objective of performing police work are contained here, the mandatory application of measures which achieve the same objective through minor procedures in rights and freedoms, the right to refuse to carry out an illegal order, the general duty to eliminate dangers, cooperation with other bodies, entities and others. After these chapters, the law follows a head that contains the largest number of articles and which are fully and systematically regulated police powers. First of all, it sought to include powers that the police regularly achieve the objectives of removing the dangers and preventing criminal offences and violations and cooperation with other bodies and citizens. The starting point of the arrangement is that the law prescribes the conditions, the way in which the powers are applied, as well as the powers to apply. In this chapter, police powers are regulated at the legal level while the implementing component will be regulated by the Implementing Regulation. It points out that the current Police Law provides for 17 police powers while the bill provides for 24 police powers and particularly stresses that police powers can be prescribed by other laws. However, these 24 police powers provided for by this proposal include all the police powers that are prescribed and the applicable Police Act, most of which are more substantively and more precisely regulated or so prescribed that individual existing authority is separated in two specific powers for the sake of clarity and economic application. It is only one brand-new police authority, which, although the secretary of state has already elaborated, I consider it appropriate to comment once again on all the police powers that this law provides for, as well as the taste of this law, because it is the work of police officers, it is a matter of contact with citizens, and it will be very desirable, and when this law comes into force to present it publicly and explain that everyone who is interested and police officers who implement the law and also citizens would have accurate and accurate knowledge of police powers. In the case of the first and second police powers, verification and identification of persons, objects and invitations, there have been no significant changes to the current law. The powers here are only and significantly more precisely arranged. The third authority is extended to bring and bring in and is prescribed when a police officer brings in a person. The difference according to the submission is that the bringing is made solely on the basis of written orders issued by a competent authority under the law, while an arrester, the person to whom the search is to be identified, the person to whom the search has been called, the person who has been duly called for the provision of information useful for the conduct of police duties and has not responded and in other cases provided for by law. The fourth power to search for persons and objects, and the fifth temporary restriction on freedom of movement, is not significantly different from the current arrangement, but norms are more precisely arranged. The sixth, the power to give warnings and orders has changed the name to give warnings and orders because such a termological provision has been made in Article 2 of this proposal of the law which provides for the meaning of the concepts used therein. There were no significant changes to the content. The seventh power of temporary confiscation of the case has been elaborated in a way that, in the name of power, the temporary confiscation, storage and sale of cases, is highlighted and the authority of the police to temporarily withdraw the case, preserve and sell until it is more clearly stated in the corresponding provisions that the police are authorised to suspend the subject where it is prescribed by this or other law as well as in the taxo-numbered cases. The eighth power of the polygraph test has changed the name to a polygraph study and, in addition to the relevant provisions, it is examined that it is prescribed who gives written consent to the polygraph survey of minors and that a polygraph study should not be subjected to a child. Police authority review of premises, facilities and documentation has separated this authority into two special powers, a review of the documentation and the entry and review of facilities and premises, so that the authority reviewing the documents relates to the business documentation of natural and legal persons which the police may review when carrying out criminal research. The authority is not as attached as to the entry into business space so far to find the perpetrator of a criminal offence or offence and to act upon the notification of the presence of an explosive device. It is also tax-accounted for when a police officer is authorised to enter and review the facilities and premises of state bodies and legal entities and other business premises. Technical means and official dog may be used during the examination. The possibility of entering and reviewing a military facility is also prescribed with the presence of military police. The power to enter another person's home, the authority of the police of the regular authorities, is to enter the other person's home and other premises without a search warrant and, if necessary, carry out the search so far, has been contained in the Criminal Procedure Act and as the authority of the police in the context of the investigations. In this proposal of the law, entering a foreign home without a written order and the possibility to carry out a review shall be governed as a special authority of the police in the event of tax-listed circumstances. The tenth power, review of persons, objects and means of transport has experienced the substantive changes seen in changing the reasons for which this authority is being taken. Now a police officer is authorized to examine a person, an object that a person carries with him and a means of transport when necessary to find objects similar to an attack or self-harm. According to this proposal, a police officer may carry out an examination of persons, objects and means of transport when it is necessary to prevent the escape of the perpetrator of a criminal offence for which he is being prosecuted under official duty, where traces of a criminal offence or other evidence is necessary and where necessary for the protection of general security. The other related provisions in the way in which the examination is carried out are not materially and substantially amended. The police authority, insurance and inspection of the venue received a change in the name of... In the event of an incident, the competent authority of the Member State of the Member State of the Member State of the Member State of the issuing Member State of the issuing Member State of the issuing Member State of the issuing Member State of the Member State of the issuing Member State of the issuing Member State of the issuing Member State of the national law of the Member State of the Member State of the Member State of the European Union, of the other part of the territory of the Member State of the Commission, of the other part, of the other part of the territory of the Member State of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, or of the other Member States, of the Commission, of the other Member States, of the Commission, of the other Member States, of the Commission, of the other Member [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To that end, it is prescribed which actions are the first to be authorised and taken by a police officer who came to the scene. Furthermore, the 12th power to apply for an extended name in the receipt of applications, to file criminal charges and reports and to contain and supplement the relevant provisions, in the sense that police conduct is prescribed when notified by telephone, other telecommunications or oral means. It is also prescribed that everything contains an application submitted by a police officer and that unless otherwise prescribed by law, the police shall report a criminal offence for which they are prosecuted under official duty immediately so leave it to the State's attorney. In addition to that, it is more clear that police conduct is required when criminal charges are filed or the results show that a criminal offence has been committed that is being prosecuted in a private lawsuit or that the event does not have the character of a criminal offence and that it is a criminal offence against honor and reputation. In addition, provisions have been added on when the police draw up and report to whom they file criminal charges and reports. As far as the thirteenth power to issue a public award, there have been no substantive changes except that it is more precise that the police are authorized to issue a public notice award for the detection and arrest of a person who has committed a serious crime or criminal offence that has particularly upset the public. Police authority, recording in public places, pointed out that public places can be recorded by audio-video devices to prevent criminal offences carried out under official duty and that the area of state border surveillance and border crossings can be filmed. Next police power to use coercion funds. Among the means of coercion listed by the applicable law as the only new means of coercion was added a sprayer with an irritant substance while all other means were coerced and the manner as well as the moment of application of the law and prescribed in this proposal equally or more precisely by respecting the principle of necessity, proportionality of treatment, especially in view of certain categories of persons and special situations, and exclusion of application in cases of possible third party injuries. The power to protect victims of criminal offences and other persons has not been changed in relation to the provisions of the applicable legal text. The authorisation, collection and use of personal data which has experienced significant content differences, starting with the name of the authority, the collection, assessment, storage and processing and use of data and the content of the relevant provisions, is visible in the way in which this material is standardized. The law only treats citizens' personal data and tax returns on police records. This bill gives the police the power to collect, assess storage, process and use all data and personal and other necessary for the implementation of this law. The data sets are not listed for reasons because the so far provision that has been so regulated is restrictive and does not give the police the opportunity to save those waters and other collections in the event of such a need. The way in which the powers are exercised, the collection of information from citizens listed in this bill as a special authority of the police is now regulated by the Regulation on how the police are handled. The way in which police actions are conducted, surveillance, escorts, traps listed in the catalogues of the law in this proposal as a special new authority of the police is also prescribed by the Regulation on the way police are handled. The same applies to checking the establishment of telecommunications contact. If, in the case of the last three abovementioned police powers, it is indeed the authority of the police that has taken the view that the current normative arrangement in which these actions were not lawfully established has the need to be defined as the legal powers of the police. The power to verify the flag, persecution, halt and implement a water facility under the applicable law is not treated as a special authority of the police but is part of a law that speaks of the use of firearms, particularly the normised situation of the use of firearms in the pursuit of a water object. As the sole new authority of the police, this bill provides for the use of a foreign transport and telecommunications device, which the government's representative has elaborated in the opening presentation. The transitional and final powers shall lay down the powers of the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt the regulations necessary for the implementation of this Police Act as the final provision for entry into force. The Democratic Community's representative club will support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32941	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let us momentarily stop by to discuss this bill and remind myself that 19 years ago, after the first free democratic elections, the first multilateral Croatian Parliament was founded, the important date of May 30 is marked as the mention of the Croatian Parliament. The mention of the Croatian Parliament, which comes on 30 May for local elections, will not be marked with a solemn session but in agreement and decision, based on the Presidency's decision in one convenient, appropriate way that is possible in accordance with the Decision on the Memorial of the Croatian Parliament and on today with one reception at 13.30 pm in Josip Jelačić's hall in the Croatian Parliament. So I invite all MPs and MPs who will be in the hall of Josip Jelačić, together with the guests, to mark the mention of the Croatian Parliament. The 20th anniversary of the next year mentioned Croatian Assembly will be marked in a solemn way, most likely and a solemn session of the Croatian Parliament, and today, in a modest manner, appropriate and savings and moment at this reception. To all representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, all citizens and citizens of the Croatian Parliament, I congratulate this mention of the Croatian Parliament as the birthday of modern Croatian democracy. Another notice. [[Applause.]] The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership reports that it will be held at the hall "Ante Starčević" in accordance with the proposed agenda of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. We are continuing to discuss the draft law on police affairs and powers. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32943	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing a law, so a law that speaks of police affairs and powers that have been created in a certain way in recent months of high expectations, so I would dare say some confusion. Why is this the case, and why is it around this law, and why are great expectations created around this law? Well, for a simple reason, because during last year, several months after several serious crimes, the murders that took place in Zagreb and several major robberies we listened to from the highest political peaks, so the promises to expand significantly, change, conjecture police powers so as to prevent, but also increase the detecting activity of criminal acts. How often it is when politics enters the story of the police, then, as a rule, there are usually some confusions. We also listened to certain announcements and promises at the time, so 7, 8 months ago appointed heads of the Ministry of the Interior and the Police Directorate on new powers. Today, when we read this law and listen to the introductions and discussions so far, it can be concluded that police powers do not increase significantly. And I think we're going to agree on one conclusion, which is that this kind of law and this law can't really prevent or resolve things. It can eventually be just a good foundation or a good foundation. The fact is that the government, or Ministry of the Interior, has opted for a new concept of police to call it legislation. From 2000 to these days, we had one concept, and when this concept of police legislation was created, most European countries, or European Union countries, were, by one law, resolved so that all of us should say so in police law, to regulate the legal everything that concerns police from organisations, businesses, powers to the rights and positions of police officers within the system. Whether this is the way and the concept of police legislation will give us some greater and better results. I think he's just going to say his own thing about it. In the variant when this concept was announced, I was to say I was a supporter of this new concept for a simple reason because it was in a certain way derived from the new Criminal Procedure Act. At the same time, I must admit that I expected this law to be a de facto enforcement law of the Criminal Procedure Act. We are now facing a problem from this very law that we do not see any way to deal with a series of important issues that are determined by police powers, which have been resolved by the rules, or by the decisions and regulations of the minister. Since there was a new concept, I simply expected this law to set up one broader framework of individual powers, namely police conduct. So if you look at Article 104 you will simply count that in this law only four, pardon six articles do not need an additional rule. All other articles will be regulated by the rules adopted by the minister. So in one part it can stand, but I'm not sure that in the other part that in a certain way still treats freedoms and citizens' rights should be regulated by a rule. I think that in certain articles there should have been more space, or as I said given certain gauges, a certain framework. One will say that certain measures, or specific questions, are regulated in other laws. But that could have been possible by now while we had police legislation in one law, the entire police legislation. However, I don't know why certain questions were avoided to at least indicate them in this law. I couldn't find some things from a police reconnaissance that are said or that will be said to be solved by the Code of Criminal Procedure that are regulated by this law. I couldn't even find what would happen to measures, so they are implemented in a way and when someone who isn't the subject of these measures falls into those measures. Whether or not those tapes, video records, or I don't know what he's been keeping for five years or how long it's already been planned. I think it's for the citizens' sake, but it's also for the cops to do some things in this law that might have made a difference. However, a key question is being asked. Since we have a new Code of Criminal Procedure that is likely to change almost. Since we are likely to be talking about the Law of Attorneyship during this session, not likely but certainly because we have now extended the agenda, we are also going to talk about the Law of Law, probably almost about USKOK. I am simply interested in whether these laws, whether these laws will all, together with this on police powers, contribute to Croatia, let me put it this way, be a safer country. I'm not so sure. Perhaps nomotechnical or conceptual is not responsible for this law being implemented. But my question, then, is what is the law and whether we will have the law of the CAP at all, or whether it will all be regulated by the rules. I mean, why does this story matter? For a simple reason, because changes in the CAP are, in my opinion, very important and very good changes that have taken place in the treatment of the investigation. But I would also like to warn that the implementation of such amended criminal legislation, i.e. the CAP in some countries such as Austria, has lasted four and more years. I look forward to seeing that from the 1.7. It seems to me that part will come to me that, when it comes to jumping objects to action. But I'm not sure how and how effectively this is going to work out together. So, as the promoter said, this law de facto, except for two powers does not treat any new authority, all others are actually variations on the subject. What are the two powers? It's two new powers that are unfortunately or fortunately, I don't know what to call it, cause the public's greatest attention, and that's not good for me. It's taking away telecommunications means, or cell phones, and that's the possibility of taking away a cell phone. That was also in the Internal Affairs Act until '90. years, and there were opportunities under some other laws to do so so far. But what is important, again, is that this does not make it clear that everything will be refunded, costs paid, possible damage paid and may have been given several examples to me that simply this attention to the public who was so focused on these two powers simply tries to transfer to other areas. So, what is not in this law, and I must admit, I expected after the announcement of the political summit, and even after the announcement of the gentlemen themselves from the Ministry of the Interior, these are certain jobs that talk about criminal research. I don't know why the promoter didn't go one step further. Why didn't he go in the direction of creating a certain, so to speak, intelligence secret service? It's actually not clear to me because de facto it's one of the preconditions for fighting organized crime. I know the argument can be, so yes, there are in the CAP and in this law there are a number of measures, but that job, it's not that job. Because then we go back to how the undercover police business was defined. He's not well-defined to me. He had to get a certain definition. I don't know if undercover police work is going to work on Bianca as a warrant or if that warrant will have a specific framework? That in law, you can't see it from the law. Yeah, now someone's gonna refer me to some other law, but why isn't that clearly defined here? So the second question, that's if so when you put someone undercover, it's a sensitive job. Why? Because de facto that man doesn't have and should not be held accountable for his job. At least you couldn't, because if you were carrying her, then there'd be a series of problems. So, it seems to me, and I am going back to that, basically, this law treats and mentions police powers that are otherwise part of police work in all European countries or in most European countries, so to speak, so to speak, if you will, in our environment. However, the issue of the whole concept and its application, and in particular of this part, that a series of issues are left to be resolved by the regulation, I don't think they lead to good, or that those basics that we talked about will not be met. Now, this concept when you single out police work and police powers from, say, the part that treats both work relations and the position of police officers in the system, that way you haven't actually responded to one request that we have with this to make the police more effective lately because of the unfortunate injuries of a few police officers actually solved. And that's that this law and this law say nothing de facto about the position of a police officer and his protection. The fact that the use of firearms has been changed in a certain way, so it has changed and replaced one model with another, that in itself I am not sure it will solve the matter. That might make it easier for them to work, but if that's the case, I don't know. We're left to see that. So, I'm finishing up, it would be good to at least get answers to some questions. I don't know if we can get here today, and that's to what extent will sublegal acts actually be changed? Why? Because de facto we have more or less all the same powers, and I also know that there are more or less for all of this sublegal act. Now, look, they have to change in me, if they're not doing anything, then because the Code of Criminal Procedure could work. And that's what's causing the mess in a certain way. I don't know, I haven't had a chance to see the Law of Law. It is likely that he should also offer some answers to a number of questions because if the new CAP de facto in a certain way is a state attorney's office, let me take the term water or manage the police in the prescribed role of the investigating judge, then this should be prescribed in a certain way, i.e. provided for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32944	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32945	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the government. The Republic of Croatia has been through the last 20 years or is still going through a specific process which could be called extremely turbulent and because of the fact that it was also a reform of the political system, a change in the political ideological pattern, as well as the reform of the economic pattern, so the transition from socialism to the market economy, but also through war and this war, which was in much more brutal ways than it is seen on the surface by some statistical indicators that usually after years and years become a certain cover for the consequences of war. The consequences of war are much more serious, they are much deeper, and they are reflected in all spheres of life. One of the consequences of war, but also the parallel process of forming a state, is a whole series of anomalies in what we call a legal state. After all, we do not need to beat ourselves or be ashamed of ourselves, enough to see which key objections to the Republic of Croatia in the accession process, or membership into the European Union, that we already realize that if the framework which makes what we call the rule of law is not harmonised, reformed and set up so that it can respond to the most demanding tasks of a new civil society, then all the palitative measures, regardless of the change of one or another law, and even the definition of a new law such as this, will not bear fruit. Citizens with the right of police, or repressive apparatus, consider one of the country's most escalating mechanisms. The state has also come from the need for citizens to protect common interests, but above all to protect the collective or individual security of members of society. Therefore, we must be aware that regardless of what makes everything the infrastructure of the rule of law, everything makes for the infrastructure of the state. Police are not only colloquial, but in everyday life they see as the most natural, visible, and then in many ways and as the most responsible mechanism of the modern state. This repressive apparatus certainly passes through the opinion of society itself. And it certainly does not depend solely on two or three regulations that regulate the structure, affairs and powers. It certainly reflects the overall state of society. And above all in that part of the law, above all in the Penal Code, in the Law of Penalty. So, in those laws that the police directly act under. Police in democratic society and police in totalitarian societies play completely different roles, regardless of how the model works somewhere in the matrix is the same, so repression. But to whom? First of all, against those who threaten the constitutional legal order, they endanger the collective and individual security of citizens. That threatens the highest values. And from the expectations of citizens who are extremely high, which the police according to the existing model that we define in modern civil society, obviously are unable to meet. Here are some examples. Someone's trespassing on your apartment while you're gone. The police can't throw him out, they're referring you to a court case. You have yesterday's bizarre detail in the Lower Kukurusari where in front of the eyes of the entire nation the old mayor of the municipality does not want to leave his post 16 days after the elections. The police come and determine the situation. He can't do anything. Such situations are a great deal, where citizens who are directly or collectively threatened with the exercise of their rights face the wall of the lawlessness of the police. And they're right to ask themselves, and what can the police do? This, of course, makes it significantly more difficult to play the overall role and position of police in the modern state. What exactly did this new law get you? First of all, certain provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Police Act are systematised in one place. After all that unfortunately we have seen in Croatia in terms of mob shootings, murders, serious crimes, for example in the past two years, we have rightly begun to wonder if we are even living in a safe country? Very loud was that voice from the police who claimed, we need to redefine police powers, or define such powers that we can act both preventively and curatively. And now we get a proposal in which we practically have two new powers. One is generally related to the removal of mobile and car in case of need and the other is point 12, which is the reintroduction of a system of protection of specially protected persons. If we look at Article 3(1), point 2 is already subliminal to all matters and powers of protection of life, rights, freedom, security, inviolability of a person, public order, peace and property. Then why do we need this point 12. Security and protection of persons, objects and space? Just for the sake of protected persons. What does that mean now? That we'll reintroduce the Department of Protected Persons. If that's the case? I beg you to say so. Please be nice to define why it's like that? Is the assessment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the highest officials of the Republic of Croatia are at risk? If he is, then we owe him information, why is that, who they're threatened with and how it's meant to prevent. We don't have that information. One of the particularly protected people is also the President of the Parliament. I think we'd better have that information. Furthermore, can the Law on Jobs and Powers of the Police solve the problems that are actually in the first plan of functioning of the police system? The education and training of police personnel, especially executive police officers. Some estimates suggest that more than 50% of them do not have the necessary qualifications for the job, but have other qualifications. Furthermore, the material conditions of police officers' work. Furthermore, the excess of the administrative part of the police system that notes bene has very high benefits in the well-favoured work experience. Let's not forget what that means. That means early retirement, that means getting bigger for pensions. And the fact that when we compare ourselves with the Member States of the European Union, we still have an average of about 400 police officers, police officers of different profiles to a measure to which Europe has 340 such persons. What does that mean? That European police officers are more efficient, more present, better equipped, better educated or perhaps thus underestimating the expertise of our own officers, and in fact the rabbit is located in another bush. And that's the poor distribution of the staff, the uncovered territorially defined areas, and on the other hand, the tightness of the county center. I'll tell you about the police station in my town. The police station covers 550 square kilometers and a very demanding terrain where from the end to the end of the zone you need an hour's drive. How many officers serve such a single space. Until a year and a half ago, we didn't have any single traffic policeman in the area and passed the busiest state road in Croatia that consumes 40,000 vehicles daily, the area where the international airport, the area where very important highways are built. It was only a year ago that the personnel empowerment of the police station began, so now we finally have people we know are traffic cops. So key problems must be solved in parallel with redefinition if it needs the powers of police officers. We need to be honest and say that if we want to provide quality safety to citizens, we lack resources for better technical equipment, for better organisation, for staff training, for continuous staff training, so that there is no accidental confusion. It is not about whether someone has the necessary expertise or not, but whether they can constantly be educated in their business is further educated in new technologies, new cases, practice and what happens in the zone in which we live, regardless of the county, state or region we live in, which are trends. Equally by reorganizing the police structure itself. We hear here today in the paper it says that a reorganization is being considered in a way that reduces the number of police administrations. Would it not be wise if we were to talk about these topics simultaneously, to know exactly what the new Law on Police Powers and Jobs on the one hand will contribute, on the other hand, what the novels of the Police Act will contribute, on the third hand, what the rules or sublegal acts that arise from this law will do to get a full picture of how we will improve the police system so that it is more functional and that citizens can rightly say that we know what the money is coming from our pocket and how collectively and individually protect us. So I use this opportunity to say that the HNS generally supports this law but prays that further reading is defined and questions of compensation in the event of harming police work, that these questions are also being defined whether we need to reintroduce the department for a specially protected person or not, if we want to be explained why we abolished it as much as I remember a few years ago. Furthermore, what and how the government plans to do in the next three years, two and a half years how long until the end of the mandate to improve the whole system and avoid situations where we have recently been when police officers are killed in concrete situations, the interventions are the first thing we have heard we do not have enough authority to do. And where are those powers, you need to change that. Is taking away a cell phone and a car the key thing that we're going to bring in here and increase the safety of a police officer in doing his own job. We don't think so. So with great interest we expect the final text of the law and the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32946	Thank you. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32947	Thank you very much. A few questions have been asked in the debate of Mr Parliamentarians. I think it is good to answer these questions immediately so that the debate will eventually go in the right direction and not be burdened by these ambiguities. So just to try to answer these few questions asked by Mr. Representative Lucin and Mr. Agent Richembergh. I must say that we have said this several times clearly from the Ministry of the Interior and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we are changing the concept and concept of regulating police affairs and powers. In fact, so far there has been a Law on Police who has been a comprehensive law, which, apart from police affairs and powers, regulated and working relations, and police structure, and co-operation with other competent institutions, bodies and a number of other things. In the current current law on police... regulate the issue of police affairs and powers. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] In this law, namely the Bill on Police Affairs and Powers, we have a total of 103 articles that regulate this issue of police affairs and powers. It was precisely our goal to give this most important segment of police work, which is to give police jobs and powers more space, to regulate them more precisely and more precisely so that police officers do not have doubts in their actions but also to allow citizens to know in advance what and how they can expect from police officers. That was precisely the main reason and the purpose of why we have passed or proposed such a law that regulates only the issue of police affairs and powers. What asked Mr Richembergh's question is one significant reform of the entire interior ministry in cooperation with European partners from European countries and the European Commission. At the same time, it would be impossible to settle all these issues that must be addressed because certain issues are related to other laws in another institution. It would be impossible now what you said to solve the issue of police structure because it would block the adoption of such a law on police affairs and powers. The law on police affairs and powers was necessary because we had to bring it in line with, among other things, the new Law on Criminal Procedure, and we had to comply with the Law on State's Attorneyship which was passed and with the Penal Code. If we'd waited for changes as far as the police department's working relations were concerned, we'd have been simply blocked. You know well that police officers and civil servants and that they want to fall under the regime and the Law on civil servants and under the Civil Service Payments Act regime. The passing of these laws is ongoing. If we were to also wait for regulation of police officers' labour relations with these laws, we would again be blocked by this most important segment, which is a segment of police affairs and powers. For this reason, we felt that it was most effective just to pass a law that would regulate police affairs and powers only because police officers would get a law that would be a clear tool in their actions. As for these other questions about police working relationships, about the structure of police officers, about the number of officers, of course we will handle other laws, or other regulations that are already being prepared or in the phase of adoption. By adopting them, we also have certain obligations towards the acquis of the European Union and the directive. So all I have to do is correct you around this information that you have stated that in the Republic of Croatia we have about 400 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants and that in Europe is that number 340. In fact, there is no directive or uniform practice of how many police officers a country needs to have on 100,000 inhabitants. It is only true that you said that this figure in Croatia is about 400, but it varies from 220 to 450 in other European Union countries. So there's no directive and there's no clearly prescribed number of cops on 100,000 inhabitants. The number depends on a number of circumstances in a particular country, starting with historical ones, starting with political ones, starting with geographical ones, on the structure of the population, means that migration depends on all those living circumstances and social circumstances affecting the state of security of public order and peace in a particular country so that this information you said is not correct. As for the questions about the number of police stations, or the number of police administrations, of course, that we will adapt their number to the life needs of Zagreb, in the Republic of Croatia because this structure is adapted to the needs of some 30 years ago and there have been significant migration movements in the Republic of Croatia, so Zagreb is no longer a city with 500 thousand inhabitants, as it was 20 years ago, but the city of Zagreb with over 800,000 inhabitants. There have been some significant migration movements in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, increasing or reducing the number of inhabitants, so we must also take care of that. So let me get this straight. If we wanted to tie this Law on Police Affairs and Powers to these other issues that were raised here, why are they not regulated, the adoption of this law, or clearer and more precise, the regulation of police affairs and powers would be regulated. We believe that this is the most effective way to pass the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, so police will certainly become more effective, citizens more secure. And these other issues, including the establishment of the Ministry of the Interior, the establishment of police stations, the establishment of police administrations, working relations, cooperation with other bodies, will be regulated by other regulations that are already being passed and that will surely be harmonised with each other in order for the entire security system regarding the Ministry of Interior to be consistent with other areas and other laws but at the same time the police cannot wait for harmonisation but we must have one law that will ensure more effective police conduct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32948	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Since this is the first reading of the law I will give a few warnings about the content of the law, not hoping that until the second reading will be seriously considered as was the case with the Law on Private Detectives, one later revealed to me that private detectives in Croatia have more powers than they will have under the new law and because you did not want to understand that private detectives cannot have the power to collect personal data on employees and candidates of employment if the same law does not specify what data they are and if they are not listed in a statement the employee signs. So it turns out that the personal data of Croatian citizens include a sexual condition which, thanks to German media, is found to be working in Croatia. Unlike some who fear the great powers of the police in terms of acting on the ground, I am not such a skeptic because for some citizens, let's say, in this law, you should write the authority that an officer on official duty in an official uniform has the right to determine the identity of a person especially if it is called Alenka that we also clear these dilemmas because sometimes our citizens are not clear enough. However, it is also important to note that the higher powers of police officers require greater supervision, internal control, and I did not really read in the chapter of the law that it has increased as much as the individual powers of officials are increasing. And now three remarks on the proposed text of the law. The first refers to Article 9 which states that, according to its own decision, police directly or through means of public communication, directly or through information on events or phenomena related to their work. And that provision is good that there is no point or paragraph 3 of the same article that says: "The reports and information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be given by a minister or person authorised by him for that purpose.". It is the information of the police, not the Ministry of the Interior, I guess it is the director of the police who decides on informing citizens about the appearances of the police, the Ministry of the Interior, that we will have, both the directorate and the directorate of the police, if the minister will decide what and what the police will report to the citizens on their own orders and, in particular, at the request of the citizens. So the citizen should contact the Minister of the Interior to give some information to the Director of the Police. I think the Home Secretary has more serious business than he does by providing information from the police's jurisdiction. Consider this my thinking. In addition, Articles 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 refer to the way data is collected, i.e. keeping the data that the police have come up with different causes. The police are running the database necessary for the implementation of this law. All right. For the purpose of performing police work, the police may request personal and other data from the national authorities and other persons who possess or are authorised to keep a database. I'd like to point out that it's about citizen data, people. Therefore, the police have the authority to collect and collect such data from state authorities and other persons, such as private detectives, neighbours, employers in the workplace, who possess such data or are authorised to keep a database. The municipality, county, hospital, medical records. Let's move on. Personal data from the collection shall be kept against persons deprived of liberty for 5 years, compared to those against whom the criminal proceedings were initiated for 5 years, compared to victims and injured persons for 5 years, compared to the persons for whom the warrant was issued for 3 years, compared to the persons subject to an identity check, careful identity check, 5 years remaining on record that the policeman has checked whether my identity card is okay. In relation to the persons who have taken the identification of the identity for 10 years, this note will be kept in the records. And now he says, permanent data on operational knowledge and sources of knowledge is being kept. So, those convicts who get out of prison and when the deadline is over, the police have to delete the data within five years, but the information the police will collect about a citizen who has been processing criminally at the request of the municipal state's attorney's office for, say, criminal charges for committing a crime and in which she found that the person has not committed a crime and when the state's attorney doesn't initiate criminal proceedings because no elements have been found. Operationally collected data in criminal processing shall be stored permanently and never deleted. And, Mr. Secretary of State, what is important is not to add, in the end, that no criminal proceedings have been brought against the citizen but remains recorded that criminal processing has been committed under suspicion of committing a criminal offence, and in the citizen's record it remains, it writes here permanently. I could be rude now and say whether or not some citizen's sexual condition will be kept on record permanently. Shouldn't it be logical for operational data or data that the police have come up with operational work and, at the request of the State Attorney's Office or for the purpose of investigation or criminal processing, are deleted unless the procedure has been initiated and continued. If the police have found that there is no basis and criminal record, if the State's Attorney's office has not initiated a criminal case, what will keep you from the data you collected on the citizen permanently? The person whose data is in the collection, now this... please explain, it has, in accordance with a special law, the right to view the part of the collection of which the notice has been submitted to the body responsible for the protection of personal data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the citizen has the right to review the data, I've been thinking about the records, the data, the file, the data viewing of only those notified to the body responsible for the protection of personal data. How does he know what information you have notified the authority responsible for the storage of personal data, unless you give it information that you have done the collection of data on it in any way or in any way. This is an inconclusive provision for the benefit of citizens. This is what you have entered here to satisfy the form of European coordination, the awareness of the fact that in Croatia this system does not exist, nor will it ever exist, nor will it be possible to execute. Don't make fools of us. To satisfy formal harmonisation for European standards in a way that prevents citizens. First, you store permanent data that no longer serves you, and then you prevent him from exercising insight into what you have collected about him. Now this is the most dangerous part of the law, the most dangerous authority of the police you've ever built into the law, and please really consider that these sets of sentences and this kind of fake rights don't get you into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32950	12.21 hours have elapsed to report a ten-minute hearing. State Secretary, Ivica Buconjic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32951	Thank you very much. Let me just try to give a brief clarification to Mr. Lesar so he doesn't remain in public doubt that this law allowed the police to enter into their fundamental rights and freedoms. Namely, Mr. Lesar, you also quoted certain items and points of Article 26, so you said: personal data in collections are kept, relating to point 1. refers to persons, point 2 refers to persons, point 3 refers to victims and damages, means again persons. All of these six points you've listed and exactly where it's defined which time period the data is stored refers to the persons. In point 1 of paragraph 2, where you refer to yourself, you refer to operational knowledge and sources of knowledge, not persons. Not about people. The police collect and store information about events, not just people. It's clear here, I'm just asking you to let me finish here, I think it's clear here, in case it's not clear enough we're willing to open it up and explain it. About this head which is particularly sensitive, we are aware that this is the most sensitive chapter "Collect, appraisal, storage, processing and use of data" we have consulted with experts, with the Agency for the Protection of Basic Data and there will certainly be more needs for certain interventions. However, it is necessary to read well what you have called not to refer to personal data but to information about events and police must simply keep event data permanently in order to connect events with intelligence crime and be able to solve old cases that may not have been solved when they happened. That's it. Read again, it does not refer to people but to general data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32952	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32953	Two false allegations. At first, I did not say that this law endangers the fundamental freedoms and rights of man in Croatia. I didn't say that. Secondly, I quoted the provisions of the law in the chapters of the collection of personal data, so if this second item refers to other data then he has nothing to do not only in this chapter, but not even in this article that speaks about data on persons, or citizens. Then you have to move that out of making it perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32954	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32955	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a law on police affairs and powers to truly meet its basic purpose, i.e. Protected the citizens, followed by those who violate not only order and peace, but endanger other people's lives and property. Therefore, in order to obtain his basic tasks, he had to be passed by the Criminal Procedure Act. In this way, first of all, the way it comes, that is, it brings. You don't know if he's even a rag in the basic Code of Criminal Procedure or if his dog's a cloak to cover him up. That even the proposer doesn't know that from certain concepts that I'll explain later. So, first of all, this law is to be objected to by the concept. What is the concept of this law, that is, whether this Law on Police Affairs and Powers is complemented by the Law on Criminal Procedure as it was meant to be. Namely, what it's about to remind citizens a little bit of what it's all about. When the Criminal Procedure Act was passed, it was already a long-awaited reform of our criminal procedure to make it more effective, to make it more effective, i.e. A faster and more efficient way of finding out who the perpetrator of the crime was, secureing clues and going into procedure. An investigation has disappeared under the Criminal Procedure Act and the investigation is being conducted by the State Attorney's Office, which gives binding orders to the police. Now you see, in this law on police affairs and powers why I negotiate basic and concept law is unclear. And this law must certainly be clear because it is primarily about human rights, because the law is unclear what is happening. There are abuses, and then innocent people get hurt and blame ourselves for what we've witnessed and what we've enjoyed for the past year. In fact, the Law on Criminal Procedure itself has not yet been applied and has already changed, as certain provisions of the Law have prompted a request for a constitutional court reaction. In fact, there's this famous provision that we of the SDP Club have been constantly warned about, we've been noisy about it, but in vain. The minister refused, the government refused. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: So that's something that's terrible. It's something that's against all conventions and what we've warned you about. The government refused, the minister refused, so now that the constitutional court's intervention is being challenged, the CAP is changing for what we have been saying. But that's what someone needs to answer for. Because it's not that he didn't know, I guess he didn't know or that the government didn't know, but she was warned, she knew. And since that job's gone dirty, then this job can't end well either. In this Code of Criminal Procedure, it is fundamental that the State's Attorney's Office gives binding orders to the police. Therefore, in this sense, this law should have shown clearly what the jobs are and how the police are doing when they work under the orders of the State's Attorney's office, and when they're dealings, they're practically all of them, but in what way, they're self-initiative. This way again, police as part of the executive authority reserve the right to work beyond the State's Attorney's office. There is no relationship at all defined, and he should have, because the Law on Criminal Procedure, and this on our intervention and amendment, has been decided that the State's Attorney's Office has the right of binding orders and that police officers, in that sense, when acting on the orders of the State's Attorney, the State's Attorney's Office and are responsible for doing so to him, not the Minister. Because sometimes they might need someone to investigate from the Ministry itself. Therefore, there is still a known conflict between the executive and the judicial authorities, and that is not good. And the basic concept of the CAP was supposed to work it out. He tried to solve it and was expected to complete this law. However, he went his own way and the old way in general neglecting. So, when you read this law, you don't know that there's a new Code of Criminal Procedure. However, certain provisions refer to a specific law or to the rules of another law, another law. It's serious stuff. This isn't about, I'm not going to, because all the laws are important and important, but this isn't about forest law. This is about a law which is fundamental to the laws of a state such as the Code of Criminal Procedure and this law. If we go in order, and why this is important, because first and foremost, the time in which it is brought. In fact, we are passing this law in a sensitive time, in a time of recession, and the time of recession is a dangerous time. For what? Because the time of recession is the time of repression. It's always been everywhere. Therefore, instead of protecting ourselves and from such executions, such a law is passed whose relationship to the Code of Criminal Procedure is absolutely, absolutely unclear and it is inadmissible. This is inadmissible in the sense of even good will in order to implement and bring to life the Law on Criminal Procedure, which, with so much hope and expectations, was adopted and ultimately presented to our citizens. As a result, the law also suffers major nomotechnical failures, but also content that is often difficult to separate from each other, given that each word is of great importance here because it is about the most important human issues, the issue of freedom, and there is no greater value than that. The fourth paragraph of Article 1(4) states: “When law enforcement is carried out, the police act according to the rules of the special law and there are no specific rules under the provisions of this law. What rules? What are the rules of some kind of behavior? Like some kind of code? So here the police are working under the Criminal Procedure Act, either under this law or by the USCOC Act, and these laws need to be taxed. And I repeat, what is crucial, when the police act on the orders of the state's attorney's office, what are the powers, or how they do them, and when they self-initiatively? And in the case of, here's a very obvious, initiation or suspicion that a crime has been committed, the police can investigate for themselves. What are those shops she's doing? He can follow the orders of a state attorney. The possibility of conducting two parallel investigations is not ruled out here at all. These are major dangers that should be resolved safely until the second reading and seriously. Article 5 states that a police officer will always apply police authority that affects less than human freedom and rights and achieves the goal of doing police work. And so there's still a whole series of norms that normally can't be written in detail and in detail, but they revive and seek a certain standard of behavior and great professionalization. But is it possible for this to happen, and let's say, by the authority of the police, because of the public's demand to publish some information about a specific case. That's good, that public communication. If it'll be left to the police themselves. So will she keep someone's information secret from the public, and from someone and what are false reports to blow up and send media chases? Of course, in one country with great democratic experience, such issues are not being asked at all. But here, where and today, police high officials go to elections and these local elections, so what can we expect? That one who went to the election yesterday when he returned to the police station, I don't know whether he failed or succeeded with equal objectivity, without talking about human rights violations, where the authorities of the police are listed, a police officer to determine identity. One harmless situation and then all that's going to be done, and then in the end, a technical video is added. So please. So this is just one template that needs to be done well, well done, but this can't just be done by the Home Office without the Justice Department. To see what they did there because it was obvious that the Ministry of the Interior was not aware of what the Ministry of Justice was doing. After all, which laws have already been passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32956	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32957	Thank you. I think it would be the worst if the proposal for a Law on Police Affairs and Powers in any way, including an indirect way, would question the division of the government which is the basis of every democracy, including democracy in Croatia. Here, above all, I think of the potential conflict between the executive and the judicial authorities over an undefined relationship with the Criminal Procedure Act. So, as part of the executive authority, the police retain the right to work past the state's attorney's office and, apparently, there is an unsettled relationship that generates this law between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. If such a proposal without the regulation and precision of these things raises questions as to whether the division of government, the trio of government works in Croatia, then we would really give what the Pope and hip are said in Dalmatia, i.e. arguments to talk about the failure of the rule of law in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32958	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32959	Well, that's my colleague Jurovic's key because the question, that is, of two fundamental functions the police have, is prevention. Here it was to be listed in the law which is its preventive role and what it can do about it. And the second part, which are the actions and how it acts when it acts under the authority of the state's attorney's office and when they're exceptional situations when there's no reaction, there's no demand for state's attorneyship, when the police have to act urgently, because she's still on the road, they're closer to what happens before they find out, they're practically, not practically but really and only operatives, and they're the ones who first find out about the perpetrator and the clues and inform the state's attorney. But then the state's attorney sends them binding orders. It's not here, and that's something, that's the concept of the Criminal Procedure Act. Which is why it's gone, it's two different concepts. And then there's all the stuff going on. The law is not concise at all, compact. So you have certain actions that speak independently of the law. Is it according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, is it according to the Law on Uskok, or what kind of actions are these? What are these actions that the police must do on their own and on what basis? Nothing has been solved at all, or solved in one systematic way. Well, you have such a standard, it can take up to six hours to get to the county. If he's from another county by 12 o'clock. So what are they bringing in, the shop itself for six hours. What are the police gonna do with that man for six hours in one county or 12 hours to the next county? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32960	State Secretary, Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32961	It's the same for a little while. Mr. Lucin, too, said in his debate that he expected this law to be the law of the Penal Procedure Act. And that is said by the distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic that this law should be complemented by the Criminal Procedure Act. I said in the introduction that only one reason to pass this law was to pass a law on criminal proceedings. Just one reason and motive to bring. In fact, crimes are only one segment in which police and police officers act. There are a number of other jobs that the police do regularly when there are no crimes. Keeping public order and peace, security, traffic, administrative affairs. Therefore, the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law, amending criminal law, is only one reason for the law to be passed, and we have sought to make this law fully compatible with this new Criminal Procedure Act and with the reform of criminal law. And this is said in Article 2(1) of the 11th paragraph, which is a police investigator when he acts under the Criminal Procedure Act and is also referred to in Article 37 of this Law, a police officer collects notices by order of a state attorney or a court of... on criminal proceedings, i.e. pursuant to Article 207. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law on criminal proceedings. The Law on State Attorney's Office will end with clearly defined relations between the police and the state's attorney's office in carrying out the investigation and reconnaissance of criminal offences. So there is absolutely no doubt who will lead the investigation, who will decide in the investigation and what will be the relationship between the judicial authorities and the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32962	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32963	That's the way it's supposed to be, but unfortunately, that's not the way it is. And that's incorrect what you've hardened. If that were the case and that it was incorrect that you claimed, that it was quite clear what jobs they were and how the police would act on the order of the state's attorney's office, you could see from the fact that you're listing a provision one and 37 so much about the precision of one and 37. Instead of one to 37 and the provision of Article 37, be careful to deny it, he says. "A police officer collects a notice by order of a state attorney," now listen to "or the court according to special law". What does that mean? That this law is the roof law of the Criminal Procedure Act. Well, it never was, it wasn't even in the mustache times. The law on criminal proceedings has always been a fundamental law, and possibly this last one. But you're already declaring him fundamental here, and the other one is special, so you don't even give him a name. It can't be, and it can't stay that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32964	So it wasn't in mustache times or beards? Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32965	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vlad's representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. I consider the law on police powers and affairs a very important democratic law. It's about the attitude of state power and the citizen of the subjugation in that country. So we all remember there are effective police, although none of us can define what effective police are, because they have no profit. He doesn't work for the profit of the police. So it's very difficult to define what effective police are. But we all remember, and we know that there are countries where the police are effective. And some of them lived here in a system where the police were effective. And was it in the function of protecting citizens, his freedoms and human rights? And was she controlled and controlled by whom? As far as this law is concerned, it seems to me that this is the most important flaw, because there is no intended parliamentary or civil control in the pursuit of police affairs and powers. Says one philosopher, that democracy without power is powerless. But also power without control and democratic, without democratic control is chic and tyranny. That's why I think it's very important to assess and evaluate how far this law goes and what it wants to achieve. Let's go back five, six months. In showing confidence in this Croatian Parliament, the new interior minister, the new and current and new minister, the current minister of justice and one and the other in this Parliament said. It is necessary in the police and in the MUP to consolidate police leadership, and more. Depolitisation and professionalization of the police are needed. It is necessary to systematically monitor and reward the work of a police officer, coordination of administrations and all services is required. And finally, they mentioned, it takes the safety of the citizens. So, in the safety and cooperation of citizens. There was still a need to employ 3,000 people and, of course, it was finally said, there was a need to extend the legal framework on police work. I wish we had one and another minister here, and if in front of the citizens of Urbi et Orbi in this House, respected representatives of the citizens, the police were depoliticised. A police officer will also treat a citizen with obedience and one who acts as a government official. But none of the ministers will say it, because they know it's not like that yet. But at the same time, they come before the Croatian Parliament and say, "Give your powers to the police without the standards offered to exercise those powers." If that were the case, and this was also a warning to the working bodies, there are several reasons, and one of the most important is that a police officer is acting in the light of the scale between the occasion and the objective of doing police work. The principle of proportionality. Where are these things standardised about the principle of proportionality? Is it true that a police officer who must have authority in the interest of an individual citizen, but also in society as a whole, can get this principle that he judges himself? Well, of course not. It's not possible, it's not capable. And it must have instructions through the regulations, but also through the law itself. So the principle of proportionality. Can the Government, can the Ministry of the Interior say, now that the police are having problems accomplishing their task, which citizens have problems with the police? Can you at least get an illustration of these relationships, when we know there are complaints from citizens about police work. But we remember here in the Croatian Parliament about the cases we discussed, some responsible with full responsibility, some with the figure in our pocket, but we had a citizen's application of overruling the powers of the police. Do we think that only in the interest of security should we ignore the freedom, the freedom of the individual, it is based on society. Without such answers and about the standardisation of police behaviour, about being depoliticised, that it is professionalised, that the funds for the number of police officers needed according to the standards Croatia has, not the countries of the European Union, but Croatian society. Is it possible without the Law on Criminal Procedure and Consistency with the Law on Criminal Procedure and other entities participating in the exercise or assessment of police powers to give Bianca confidence to the police? Is this really what the government is asking of us? If that's what he's looking for, then it's questionable whether power is controlled. Can I be sure when a police officer stops him and asks only his driver's license not to look at the position of the driver, whether he's in power or not? If we can ignore it here now, then citizens don't even have to trust us. That is why it happens that citizens do not trust the institutions of the Croatian system or in the Croatian Parliament because on behalf of something or someone or some party or some of the higher goals, we neglect parliamentary control of the executive authority and especially the state administration. There are still other things that we allow the minister to pass by a rule, such things that are intruding into the fundamental freedoms and human rights of individuals without parliamentary supervision, without civil oversight. That's why I don't think we should demonstrate now that the intention is bad, but we must seek in the name of responsibility that the Law on Police Affairs and Police Powers is such that it leaves no doubt that the police will be able to handle the political colors of the citizens under discretion. This is not allowed, and I think that is why the minister must come to defend the final proposal of the Law on Jobs and Police Authorities and declare here that he has made human changes to those he sought without the influence of the executive authority rather than as minister responsible for the portfolio, that he has hired an appropriate number of officials, that he has professionalised the police and has depolitised the police. And that should be added to show the state's attorney's office and the Ministry of Justice. So it is a really important law on freedom and the rights of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32966	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32967	Thank you very much. Well, here may be a few notes and remarks that I haven't been able to say as I spoke on behalf of the club, but it seems to me that two groups of questions have been crystallized in the debate so far. One group seems to me, therefore, to be able to come to terms with the following, whether this law or not, so if you want to add even more together with some other laws that I don't now, we're going to get a more effective anti-crime system, or if everyone understands it, I'd like to say whether the number of criminal charges or their rejections will be reduced because we know that this information is quite high, or whether we're going to get even more criminal charges from that so-called. grey zones where serious crime is organised and whether police will be more capable or more protected in the matter. So the answer to this first question when we get it, we can talk about the quality of this law. Another group of questions that seem to me to be neither touched nor can directly say that this law does not give an answer to it, but it seems to me that some other act or law should speak about it, which is what my colleague Leko was saying and some other issue of supervision. In Croatia today de facto outside the police system or ministry I would dare say there is no adequate model of police surveillance as in some other countries, and I will not continue to talk about it, but my suggestion is that either the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Justice think about the development of one or two models, I will not even talk about political surveillance, I do not think that it is relevant in this context, but civil surveillance and level and depth and how you will. So I think that's two key questions. There's been a lot of talk here about whether this model or that model, but I belong to that group of people who were talking about actually dealing with the type of model not to solve the problem, but actually to create assumptions. Look, you can have no idea how good the law is, but if the cops don't get dressed and they can't know that law, they can enforce that law, and eventually they're equipped and protected to enforce that law, it won't be anything, or that a young 20-year-old cop can send it right into the fire. So that implies. That's why those who were actually talking about the whole system and the whole organization, I think they're right. So it's not working here and it's hard to judge whether this model is fragmented by police legislation or legislation in the package... It doesn't mean anything in itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleagues discussed it here, and I think my colleague Beus was talking about how someone changed the organization, so the Department of Protected Persons was actually removed from the police system. That was inadmissible, but it didn't remove this Parliament, it was removed by the minister. And we all know why it was because of certain personnel solutions because one person had to be in the rank of assistant rather than chief. The Department of Protected Persons has been ripped out of the police system and placed under the minister. I take that as an example. So when, for the first time in my life, a co-existent model that was made in 2000 in collaboration with the Austrians and Germans, especially the Austrians, was actually whole and had a certain sense, but the moment one important thing was ripped out of the system to call it a segment, was one section and when it was converted, when it was turned into a sector, or when the principle came to him, the assistant broke down that concept. And since 2004, when in order for the gentleman to become an assistant system to start collapsing, it seems to me that it wasn't consistent to solve and create a police system, creating a police system. Maybe it'd be good. And what I believe is a large number of citizens are interested in, and that's to get some kind of catalogue or register of police powers to which the police have the right to exercise their powers without a warrant. So the difference between breaking into an apartment, by all those points that are listed and searching the apartment, you know what it's like? It's the thickness of one hair. And it's easy to slip. Now that's what I can't accept that in one of the I don't know, a couple of hundred or 20 regulations to be passed by the minister will prescribe it. So these are the finesse. That's what I personally expected to make one step in relation to what we have so far. Here, I believe that in this law, therefore, they are not disputed powers, but they are disputed certain variations, which is how these powers correspond to a particular one, if you want both parts of society and parts of the system. This means whether, let's say, an example, where it's prescribed that in a car accident, or in a car accident, a police officer will not first use it, although it says in the law lower to call it a means of coercion, such as a bat, such as handcuffs, but will pull a gun. So what it says in the law that the police will act on the basis of an assessment, based on the circumstances given, as a principle assessment can stand. You know how long it can stand? It can stand until one particular case occurs and one specific example. But I think there's some things I should explain. So, a cop, this law says he's a cop for 24 hours, so even when he's at work and not at work. And he's bound to be a cop and out of work. Now my question is, to what extent, whether he is out of business and at the cost of endangering his own life is going to solve some situations. I don't know, and neither do those who will read this law. So I took these two examples, there's a few more, something I was saying on behalf of the club like measures, etc. I think, let me put it this way, they'd be easier to accept, easier to digest this law. If this, uh, sort of important thing, let me be quite clear, taken away from the minister's jurisdiction and in a certain way written in this law. It seems to me that there was some space and that law didn't even need nomotechnically, so to speak, by volume, size, being larger, more massive, but that could have been made better, I believe it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32968	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32969	Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on police affairs and powers that come at a time when the public is particularly sensitive because of the tragic events that have occurred lately. The draft law has been developed to improve the effectiveness of police work, improve the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms and modernise the formation of police affairs. The purpose of the law is to make police treatment clearly regulated but simpler, faster and more economical. Police work must be precisely arranged, especially in situations where its conduct affects both fundamental rights and freedoms, and also when these rights and freedoms are the cause and... a protection that is achieved by conducting police work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The arrangement of police work is important for the effective detection of criminal offences carried out under the official duty of the offence, then for the work of other bodies, primarily state attorneys and thus generally for effective protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens, their property, order, relations in the state and other fundamental values. The law regulates an extremely important system of actions which are subject to the procedure of detecting criminal offences that are being prosecuted under the official duty of the offenders and their perpetrators, as well as to take measures to eliminate the danger of preventing criminal offences and offences. In this way, the law becomes one of the most important sources governing police conduct... and its actions preventively and repressively. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is of particular importance that the law regulates police actions before taking action with certain rules of criminal proceedings. The law sorted police affairs into 13 groups, predicting the possibility of individual jobs being prescribed by other laws. To conduct police affairs, the number of police powers has increased from 17 to 24 although most things have been redistributed. It is important here to stress that this increases the safety of police officers and the correctness of their procedures, which contributes significantly to their effectiveness. The most extensive part are just those provisions on police powers... of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] up to 102, however, significant differences with the current arrangements are also the editing of some other regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a procedure has significant advantages as it enables better and more detailed alignment with other regulations which contributes to the coherence of the legal arrangement. This applies to the excessive majority of police powers whose implementing meaning is conditional upon knowledge of science, experience, equipment and so on, but above all on the duties of respecting the principle of development and other general principles of application... Human rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Refurbishing certain police powers of the law... calculates that they are such that they are not in collegiate with other regulations, in particular the rules of criminal and criminal proceedings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, it should be pointed out that the differentiated approach to the Law governing the modelity of the use of certain police powers. It's the law... equates... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] European sources of police law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a rule of police power, the law regulates the conditions of application, the entities of the enforcer, the frameworks and prohibits certain actions to protect rights and freedoms, the specific mode of conduct of the law in relation to individual police... does not edit predicting that it will be elaborated in sublegal... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in accordance with the regulation of Article 104. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The draft law devotes a special part to the use of means of coercion. In these provisions, police officers are arranged in detail, the modelling of the conduct especially when it comes to the use of firearms. The law first provides for a total of 13 types of coercion in Article 81. This catalogue is in line with the means of coercion used by European police and, in particular, the fundamental principles of the use of coercion funds, which are highlighted in the opening statement. The principles set out in the regulation of use have forced the necessity, proportionality, phasing out, particular consideration for certain categories of persons and specific situations, and the exclusion of use in cases of possible third parties' suffering. In any event, it is necessary to draw attention to the provisions of Article 91 as a transitional and key provision for the use of firearms to persons. It is in that provision that four cases have been prescribed that a police officer is authorised to use firearms. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that in two cases the use of firearms by a citizen, Article 91(1) and (2) and in both cases the use of firearms in situations where illegality is excluded. In these two cases, the remaining cases are passed by a special police authority to the use of firearms, and that is, if, in another way, a police officer cannot arrest a person found in a criminal offence for which a prison sentence of at least 10 years or the person for whom a search for such a crime has been ordered, or if he cannot otherwise prevent the escape of a person suspected or accused or escaped from the execution of a prison sentence for such a criminal offence. Thus, the law restricts and precises the use of firearms by police officers to clearly identify and precisely determine four cases. The law regulates the procedure for the use of firearms, the exclusion of the use of firearms in certain situations or according to a particular person and other issues in this regard. The law also lays down provisions on the protection of a police officer after the use of coercion funds, and a special case of the use of firearms under the water installation programme is also detailed in Article 101. This bill allows the MUP or the police to work more efficiently, which means greater security for citizens without jeopardising their human rights. For all the above, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32970	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32971	Thank you very much. I will continue only briefly because I closely followed the presentation of all parliamentary representatives and what I would like to point out again, perhaps the adoption of this law was understood in the wrong context. In fact, this law is no implementing law, no addition to other laws. This law is a fundamental law for the conduct of police officers. Police officers and police officers do not only act in the situations of the law on criminal proceedings, but police officers have a number of other jobs and tasks, and therefore we believe that this law has created the conditions for police officers to act clearly, precisely and unequivocally in cases of the law on criminal proceedings, but that we are also as important as this first part, and we have created a regulatory and legislative legal framework for police officers to act clearly and precisely in other matters, not only in the implementation of the Criminal Procedure Act. So, this is no complement to any other law, this is no implementing act, this is a fundamental law that needs to be clearly, precisely, unequivocally prescribed the conduct of police officers in their daily work and conduct. We believe that the clearer and more precise the behaviour of police officers, the less the possibility of errors in conduct and the less the possibility of violations of human rights and freedoms. And what is also very important for me to point out because some MPs have raised the question here, pointed out why not more precisely standardized all situations where a police officer can be found in the conduct of his police affairs and powers. In fact, it's impossible by any regulation and by this law to prescribe absolutely all the situations in which a police officer can be found. During each use of coercion funds, especially those more repressive than firearms, police officers are exposed to enormous stress. This has been shown by all situations where police officers have to make a decision practically in a fraction of a second on both the type and manner of application of individual means of coercion. It's enormous stress. Then it's impossible to think about laws, regulations, rules, anything else because of that, as I said, which no law can predict all life situations in which a policeman can be found. Police work is difficult, responsible, dangerous, and above all unpredictable. There are police jobs that are also routine, there are police jobs that police officers can conduct and in which they can really take full care of regulations, laws and other acts. However, there are many situations where it is simply impossible to expect a policeman to be prepared in advance so that he can apply a certain law, a certain regulation to the final score. This is precisely why we wanted to give this law a legal framework in which police officers will know in advance how to act, what powers police powers apply, but to take care of the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms. That's why I'm pointing out again and I'm warning you again, this is not an implementing law. I think that we are too focused on the function of this law in that segment that it should be in the role of implementing the Criminal Procedure Act, but the police officers, in addition to the conduct of the Criminal Procedure Act, still have a number of difficult, responsible, complex tasks and we had to take care of the need to pre-quality standardise and conduct officers in the conduct of these other affairs, not just the implementation of the Criminal Procedure Act. Of course the law can be better, of course we'll consider all the objections and objections we've heard here. Surely, the law can be even better, and we will try to make sure that any objections that are justified and those objections that have their own justification, that we may consider them, that we may try to find a better solution in the law and that the second reading comes before you a law that will be even clearer, which will be even more precise, which will be even more unequivocal. That's why, as I said at the beginning, we didn't want to ensure increased efficiency of police officers by increasing repression. Our decision in the MUP is that police officers must be more effective, that they must be more capable of being able to base their daily training, education, the basis of training, the basis of daily work on themselves, not by increasing both the number and height of repressive means that they should possibly get. That's why we're not just focused on passing this law. In fact, a number of educations by a large number of police officers who will participate in the implementation of the Criminal Procedure Act are being conducted parallel to this law. They are involved in these educations together with the staff of the State Attorney's Office, with which they will carry out the most difficult reconnaissances and participate in the processing of the most serious crimes. Therefore, this law or the adoption of this law is not the only activity being carried out in the Ministry of the Interior but is only one of a series of activities that the Ministry of the Interior is carrying out to make police officers more effective and so that the entire system can guarantee better security, but again I stress not on the account of human rights and freedoms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32972	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I remind MPs and representatives of the reception in the hall of Ban Josip Jelačić in 15 minutes, so please also those who are in the hall and who are not in the hall to come to this reception for the mention of the Croatian Parliament. I'm interrupting the session. The follow-up will take place after this reception at 3 p.m. if the parent committee completes the session and submits a report on the final proposal of the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment. At 2.30 is the board meeting. If that committee doesn't end, then we'll start, at 15.00 hours with a debate on the final proposal of the Air Transport Act, as follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32973	Fourth, draft law on police affairs and powers, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 329, the draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The draft law on police affairs and powers is adopted; 2. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by a majority of 94 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32974	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue with the session and debate on - Final draft air traffic law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 330 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, European Integration, Defence, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections. The amendments were submitted by the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, the Sea and Infrastructure, Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32975	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The draft air traffic law with the Final Bill is one in a series of laws that the government has set in its national accession plan, in fact bringing Croatia's legislation into line with the European acquis. In particular, last July in the Croatian Parliament, an international agreement was ratified for which the provisions of the agreement had to be amended and the Air Transport Act had to be amended. It was further found that it was more effective to draft a new law and technically simpler, which has been done over the past 6 months in intensive work and has been done to get here, to the point where we can propose a final draft of the air traffic law to the Croatian Parliament. As far as the law itself is concerned, he's very general. A law which defines the basis for many sublegal acts that will make the overall system of air traffic management and control the way it must be, so it defines many sublegal acts and creates a space for implementing European regulations through translation and publication into Croatia which then become part of the Croatian legislative system. I law the most important units that contain are the following. In addition to general air traffic rules, it also defines market access, use of Croatian airspace, conditions for carrying out transport, necessary permits and certificates, conditions for safe use of aircraft and airports, air navigation services, investigation of accidents and serious accidents. Let me further clarify here that this law also proposes the establishment of an agency as a special independent body, so the Agency for the Research of Accidents and Serious Air Accidents, thus ensuring the organisational, functional and financial independence of the research body. Furthermore, this law also ensures transparency and how to report events that threaten safety and air traffic protection. It also defines air traffic safety inspection as a very important part of this law. Also, a brief explanation. The inspection has so far been carried out by the resolution ministry, following the adoption of this law, an important function will be performed by the civil aviation agency. There are also, of course, infringements, or sanctions for air traffic offences. After this law has been passed and after its application, which will, of course, be done in the coming months, I am convinced that in the 9th month, there will be conditions for a positive assessment of the overall state of Croatian air traffic, thus also a positive assessment of the European Commission in part of the criteria in Chapter 14 – Transport Policy, and that through this green light and we expect a certain constructive and proactive commendation from the Commission, there will be a successful conclusion of the negotiations in Chapter 14 and, of course, further steps towards European integration. Thank you. For all further questions, I am at my disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32976	The Legislative Committee? European integration? The defense committee? Maritime, traffic and connections? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32977	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The air traffic management proposes this new bill, which in some segments is worse than already this existing law, which only wants to reject itself primarily from its own responsibility or irresponsibility and long-term inadequacy, inefficiencies, inability and absolute incompetence, skillfully hiding behind the status of civil servants and violating the Law on civil servants that they are about to behave and work on. Furthermore, the entire public is familiar with the negative report... a with regard to possible association in matters with Croatian airlines which has failed due to the poor work of the air traffic management. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then it was expected that after the signing of the contract between US air carrier United Airlines and Croatia airlines in June 2007 a joint... between the Republic of Croatia and the United States, that's not gonna happen, that's what we've already talked about here in the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reasons why this will not happen are the negative assessments that the US Federal Air Traffic Administration gave to the Croatian air traffic administration after the supervision that US air authorities are doing always before such transactions are concluded. US air authorities believe that, among other things, there are not enough qualified people in Croatia to carry out checked tasks and control systems and certification of pilots and aircraft in Croatia is very weak. In fact, what's been a public secret in air traffic management for years has been confirmed, enough tells us he's been working there too few employees, only thirty who don't have any operational experience from the air force. When the flight season is from spring to autumn, a large number of smaller aircraft owners have been waiting for a technical review and extension of registration, which is unacceptable. Furthermore, US air authorities' inspectors were due to arrive on September 10th of last year to determine whether Croatia has taken positive steps to move away from the latest surveillance in February of last year. But the ministry refuses to receive inspectors because it has not improved the situation since February. But if surveillance was allowed again, the same scenario and bad results would certainly be repeated. And so Croatia, due to poor and unquality work, has made it to the black list of countries that do not oversee the quality of the airline and instead of repairing the situation and starting to correct the deficiencies, Minister Kalmeta is only doing, changing the then assistant Damir Vince who was honest and telling the public the truth, which is that the state of air traffic management is disastrous and there is no movement for the better. The biggest damage from this unprofessional approach to air traffic by the government and the competent ministry was our largest air carrier, Croatia airlines. Croatia Airlines has been through strict control and supervision by US air authorities, but due to a negative assessment of the day of the Air Traffic Administration, a job that would have brought great benefits to the Republic of Croatia. It is also less known in the public that the EASA, on three occasions, has conducted an audit establishing that the Air Traffic Administration has not created legal preconditions as well as legal formal assumptions, and neither has the implementation of the conditions and criteria of the European Aviation Regulatory Authority, and as part of the Air Transport Administration, there is an inspection service that had a somewhat developed strategy and vision. But not understanding by the air traffic administration, nor efficiency and consistency in inspection and criminal surveillance, thus sending two sense messages to the air auditory without proper sanctions against law enforcement. There's also very little concern for aviation safety and prevention, almost nothing. Enough to say that the USA has triple the number of pilots and sports aircraft compared to Croatia, while Croatia has more fatal accidents than the USA. Does it speak for itself and for the aviation safety of prevention in Croatia? Therefore, we argue in favour of the 2004 Air Transport Act, which is more thorough and almost entirely covered by sports aviation, while this new bill absolutely erases sports aviation from the law. The air traffic management proposes a new law and excludes most of the operations from the Civil Aviation Agency, which should solve all the problems so far that the air traffic administration has failed to solve. Speaking of the agency, let me briefly point out how this agency was founded. Namely, the Civil Aviation Agency, which should control certificates, operating licences and apply international standards for air traffic, was due to start in 2007. Of course, this did not happen within the deadline, because the government adjusts the deadlines as it suits it, not as they require domestic and international documents. Only after a negative report by the US air authorities mentioned, on Friday 18 April 2008, the government appointed leaders and members of the agency's council with a year of delay. Although the agency's 3 million kuna work has been provided in the 2007 budget. This is another example of how this government has skillfully run our country. But chaos here is not the end. Unfortunately, in the new Air Transport Act proposal, there is no Croatian Air Alliance and sports aviation anymore. And not only is this unacceptable, but it is proof that such proposals and laws are written by individuals who have no experience in aviation, and that is why the state of the air traffic administration is what it is. So let's briefly remind those who wrote this bill and who it is and what the Croatian Air Force is. The Croatian Air Force is a roof aviation association that unites, organises and implements care for complete sports aviation on the basis of the terms and criteria of the World Aviation Federation of the FIE and the European Aviation Federation... , whose full member he has been since 1993. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Air Force is a member of the Croatian Olympic Committee and of the Croatian Community of Technical Culture where they achieve a total of multiple demanding aviation technical programmes. The Croatian Air Force is carrying out aviation activities in 9 air days, and today it has organised 15 world and European championships, as well as world conventions. The Croatian Air Force gathers over 60 associations, over 4 thousand aircraft, as well as hundreds of sports aircraft, motor and non-motor parachutes, balloons, ultra-light units, paragliders, motor paragliders, self-building aircraft, aircraft models. Since 1992, we have met world and European standards. Exclusion of sports aviation from the law is the basis of absolute ignorance of the European Union's aviation regulations and recommendations, and such a thing cannot be suggested by someone who does not want the Republic of Croatia in Europe. No Member State of the European Union has dropped the law of sports aviation, leaving that part of non-community aviation to the National Aviation Union in our case to the Croatian Air Force. By evicting Croatia from the Air Force from sports aviation and law, European regulations are derivated and further away from... The EASA and the European Aviation Safety Agency are based on the tasks and controls of the European airspace, and flight safety is first as well as in all long-term aviation institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act since 6 December 2004, trusts the Croatian Air Alliance and the exercise of public powers. However, all these years, the Air Traffic Administration did not consider that the law also required the exercise of the Parliament's decision, and so far it has not operationally transferred public powers to the Croatian Air Force, specifically the Croatian Air Force in the exercise of public authority, derogated the order of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure themselves, and now, in the new law, completely ousts sports aviation as well as the Croatian Air Force from the proposal of the new Law on Air Transport, which further distances the Republic of Croatia from the European Union. The Croatian Air Force has tried in these five years in all structural ways through a series of memos, meetings, seminars, to agree to the Air Traffic Administration to create conditions for the Croatian Air Force to exercise public authority. Last year, the president of the World Aviation Organization visited Croatia... Pierre Portman, in order to achieve better communication and partnership with air traffic management through the visit of EASA leaders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the meeting did not produce any results, even the more the head of the EASA was unpleasantly surprised by the poor condition and poor approach of sports aviation. Therefore, such a bill opens and stimulates the illegal conduct of sports aviation, thus opening up a great opportunity to increase accidents and accidents both in sports and commercial and air transport, where trafficlers' lives and flight damages to third parties are threatened. The basic and fundamental assumption that air traffic management would work quality and professionally is that... that by means of aviation education and experience, with certain conditions and criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For many years, we have witnessed that this is not the case, that people are employed by the principle of relatives, and that aviation knows very little. And it's not enough to study foreign regulations and it's dry to translate from English and implement into action. Because each country has the possibility to apply national regulatory or standard, which makes it clear that space is subject to specificities and specialities from country to country. But our Air Traffic Authority threw that out. On the basis of everything that's been said, I'm asking three questions. Who is the official representative of the Aviation Administration of the EASA to the European Aviation Safety Agency? Since when? Based on what criteria? What has he done and done so far, and who has he filed a report for his work? Second. Why is there no national air traffic protection commission in which all civil and military institutions and factors in the Republic of Croatia should be represented? And a third. Why the bill was not delivered to the Croatian Air Force, as was the practice of earlier years and as is the usual practice everywhere in the world, and not that the Air Traffic Administration is hiding from the aviation public, as well as from the agency. Furthermore, almost all articles and articles of this Proposal for a Law on Air Transport are referred to the regulations, programmes, regulations, sublaws that are yet to be adopted and similar. But to this day, this same Air Traffic Administration has not brought any of these same acts, it did not even want to verify the regulations and programmes of the Croatian Air Alliance, and now it leaves this job to an agency that also has no resources, nor adequate experts for this very complex and responsible job. What is most tragic is the Air Traffic Administration's new draft law calls for the adoption of a programme and regulation modelling the EASA to the European Aviation Safety Agency, regulations and standards, which have been the basis of the Croatian Air Alliance's work programme since 1993. The Croatian Air Force has a huge experience and tradition in sports aviation. Let us not erase all this because of the ignorance and intricacies of individuals, consult the measure of the profession, let us not be unprepared and admit our shortcomings and accept other people's experience and knowledge. We believe that this slowed down unprofessional management of this government has repeatedly damaged this state, its citizens, and the reputation we have in international circles. We do not respect the laws we ourselves, so how do we expect citizens to respect the principles of the rule of law? It is time to look a little ahead, to make plans and strategies that are not their own purpose, but that will be implemented within the deadlines set so that such indignities in international circles will no longer occur. The SDP club will support this bill because it goes to the benefit of citizens and carries quality changes that air safety will raise to a higher level and that these changes would be realised it is necessary to do more, much more in the air traffic management because with such a bad organisation and unprofessional staff it will be difficult to live up to this law. In the end, I must say that I am glad that Europe has forced us to pass this law because it is obvious that our current government has not been able to recognize the interests of its citizens alone and react in the right way. And I ask you, in the end, to return to this law aerospace activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32978	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32979	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As the name of the bill itself states, the proposal regulates air traffic in the airspace of the Republic of Croatia, so the most important segments such as jurisdiction are the conditions for safe air traffic, the conditions for safe use of aircraft and aircraft, airports, conditions for professional staff, investigation of safety and aircraft accidents, search, rescue, environmental protection and protection measures against aircraft noise, surveillance, etc. Therefore, it prescribes and regulates air traffic and airspace and there is no need to repeat all these details. Since May 92, the Republic of Croatia has therefore become a member of the International Civil Aviation Organization very soon after international recognition. Last year, Croatia committed itself to implementing in its legislation the Regulation and the Directive of the Agreement on a Common European Aviation Area, so to implement the acquis in the field of civil aviation. The consequence of this obligation is and I would like to say a proposal for this law. The Republic of Croatia also assumed the obligation of continued harmonisation of existing rules and solutions with the norms and recommendations provided for in the international agreements that the Republic of Croatia has joined. All elements of the framework units adopted by this proposal will be detailed in the implementing rules adopted under this law, following the adoption of the law of course, and in accordance with the relevant EU rules. This seems acceptable due to frequent changes in EU rules as well as the possibility of our rapid response. It is good that the competences of the Civil Aviation Agency, which conducts administrative, inspection and other tasks relating to civil aviation in the Republic of Croatia, are more clearly prescribed. And most importantly, I would say, the law also provides for the establishment of the Agency for the Research of Accidents and Serious Accidents as a legal person with public authority, so as an independent body. The provisions of this law apply to all activities in civil aviation carried out on territory and in the airspace of the Republic of Croatia but also outside the Republic of Croatia on aircraft registered in the Republic of Croatia. Also on all aircraft using Croatian airspace, including foreign and international contracts that bind the Republic of Croatia. This is therefore a very complex but extremely important matter, which this bill fully covers, while the details will be prescribed by the implementing rules all in accordance with EU legislation and of course this is a step further and a step forward in security. And that's why the HDZ club supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32980	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32981	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The Air Transport Act as a basic law governing air traffic issues contains provisions on air traffic arrangements in the airspace of the Republic of Croatia and the responsibilities in that area, conditions for safe air traffic in air transport and other air traffic activities. The takeover of European legislation from this area is one of the conditions for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Therefore, the continued harmonisation of existing rules with the solutions, norms and recommendations provided for in the international agreements that the Republic of Croatia has joined so far is necessary. The creation of a new Air Transport Act has been encouraged to comply with international commitments and practices, and because of the written findings of representatives of international organisations who carried out... on the fulfilment of commitments made primarily under the multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States and the corrective actions carried out by the aviation authorities of the Republic of Croatia to improve aviation in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is thus recommended that the provisions of the law allow for the achievement of the obligations arising from the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Agreement and the EU accession process to be met as quickly and efficiently as possible. The Air Transport Act, therefore, focuses largely on the harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis in the area of air traffic. The law will allow harmonisation with EU rules since it is conceived as a very general law containing principled provisions on all relevant aspects of civil aviation. As the Air Transport Act regulates the general rules on the conduct of air traffic access to the market, use of Croatian airspace, conditions for carrying out transport, necessary permits and certificates, conditions for safe use of aircraft and airports, air navigation services, investigation of accidents and serious accidents, reporting of events that threaten safety, air traffic protection, air traffic safety inspection, and air traffic safety violations. All further elements of these units will be detailed in the implementing rules adopted under this law and in accordance with the relevant EU rules. This law further provides for the establishment of a civil aviation agency to investigate accidents and serious accidents. In the final draft air traffic law, I would like to mention Article 2 which lists and explains the concepts used in this law. Thus, under the regular number 89, the airport was mentioned and, of course, it is said to be specially adapted for air transport services. Does that mean that now every airport is an airport? What about the airport so far? I do not find these terms in the above - mentioned article. So we know that the airports of Zagreb, Zadar, Split, Rijeka, Pula, Dubrovnik airport for the admission of aircraft in public transport Brač, Osijek, Mali Losinj, airports for the admission of aircraft for general purposes and occasional transport of Bjelovar, Čakovec, Grobnik, Lučko etc.. So it's about smaller airports, and the question is, didn't all of them come down to the same denominator? Or won't those ports get airport status and so far they've been docking? If so, we place the existing ports in a privileged position compared to those destinations that are currently struggling with all the documentation and other necessary things in the construction of the airport, such as mine in my Krapina-Zagorje County. I also mention Article 8(3). The article concludes quote: "...and is worthy of being a member of the agency's council.". Who also assesses the basis for what criteria this necessary qualification is? Article 10(3) speaks of the salaries of the Agency’s employees in accordance with market conditions and, on the other hand, introduces its own pay system in order to obtain appropriate professional staff. So you're all paying out of the state budget and employment will probably go through a public tender with the necessary and appropriate professional arrangements. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would like you to explain to us what this is about because the problem mentioned in the commission's jurisdiction can be regulated by law and by the rules that belong to it. By establishing the commission, we introduce new people with corresponding fees, and we must, of course, pay and comply with EU regulations. Article 15(2) of this Regulation does not apply to the law, in that part it is correct but the consequence in the case of application before the end of this tourist season. The article reads: "Aircraft on the European Union list of air carriers which are prohibited from flying within the European Union area shall not operate in the Croatian airspace.". In accordance with Article 15(2), it shall cease to be possible to grant exceptional approval for a series of flights from Russia to which the Croatian tourist season should be saved by bringing Russian tourists who have also been lifted from visas. The envisaged approval would allow Russian aircraft to land at Dubrovnik and Split airport even though they are now allowed to fly, for the sake of noise and environmental pollution, not even to us, let alone in Europe. And finally, I think that in the entire text of the law, the word "procedure" should in all forms change into the Croatian word "proceeds", because both forms are used in the text of the law, so it is not transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32982	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, the only registered esteemed representative, Boris Sprem, is gone, is losing his right to debate. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32983	We move to the Final Proposal of the Air Transport Act, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 330, the proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Air Transport Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority vote with 101 votes for and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32984	We move to: - Final proposal for a law confirming the Convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and measures to protect children, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 335 Would you like one? ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on. So the proposer of this law that I have read is the title of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Stjepan Adanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32985	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention on jurisdiction and applicable law, recognition and enforcement and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and measures to protect children with a final bill is here in front of you. The aim of this law is to confirm the meaning of the Convention on what I said before and the proposal for a law on the validation of the Convention was drawn up in order to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union. In particular, Chapter 24 of Justice, Freedom and Security, Appendix (a) of the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2009. The Convention governing the protection of children with regard to the determination shall be determined by the State whose authorities are competent to take measures to protect the person and property of the child of the right to apply, which shall apply those bodies under their jurisdiction and the rights applicable on parental responsibility to ensure the enforcement of those protection measures in all Member States and the means of cooperation between the parties in order to achieve the objectives of the Convention. The Convention shall be assessed as particularly important in order to avoid possible conflicts between jurisdiction, the applicable right of recognition and the enforcement of decisions in the field of child protection as possible in practice because, in general, each country solves the issue of conflict of law with the regulations of other countries in certain relations, which may contain contrary legal solutions for a particular case. The main issues to be addressed by this proposal of the law are that the central body for the conduct of the Convention or the adoption of requests in relation to the issue covered by the Convention will be the Ministry of Health and Social Care. The Republic of Croatia shall make a statement in accordance with Article 29(1) and Article 44, following the above. The Convention, which determines the Ministry of Health and Social Care as a central body. I would especially point out here that the Ministry of Health and Social Care is already acting as an implementing body under some other conventions in the field of child protection. This is the Hague Convention on the Civil Law aspects of international child abduction, the Council of Europe Convention on Contact with Children and the United Nations Convention on the achievement of alimony requirements abroad. Normally, it is logical for this Convention to have this central body, i.e. the competent ministry, become the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which is already working under these three conventions. The proposal for a law provides that the Republic of Croatia will make a statement referred to in Article 34(2). The Convention for the submission of requests from the authorities of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 34(1) only through the Central Authority. The requirements submitted by means of a central body contribute to clarity or follow-up of behaviour, thus avoiding possible complementarity as well as burdening various bodies with the same objects which are very important here for the highlighted. For the purpose of protecting the property interests of the child, it is proposed that the Republic of Croatia declares the reserve in accordance with Article 60a in conjunction with Article 55(1). In order to maintain the competence of its authorities to take measures aimed at protecting the property of a child located in its territory and the right not to recognise any parental responsibility or measure if it is contrary to any measure taken by its authorities in connection with that property. In doing so, this reserve will be limited to the property of a child located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is the case in Article 55(2). Convention. Furthermore, in relation to Articles 23, 26 and 52, it is also proposed to make a statement that, at the time of becoming a member of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia will apply the relevant internal rules of the Union, the legal rules of the Community in connection with the recognition and enforcement of a judicial decision taken by the Court of Justice of the European Union on matters governed by the Convention. In a particular section, the Convention regulates the same issues and corresponds to a positive source of secondary European law. Therefore, this is the case with Brussels II bis. So the articles, to be clear, are 23, 26, 52. The Conventions allow parties to have a certain degree of flexibility in order to apply a simpler and faster regime of recognition of the implementation of decisions. This Regulation shall enter The Convention shall regulate the recognition or grounds for refusal of recognition. The measures taken by the authorities of the Contracting State shall be subject to the relevant provisions of Articles 21 and 22. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following This Regulation shall enter The Convention regulates the way in which the measures taken and implemented in one country are implemented and require de facto enforcement in another country. It shall be subject to the relevant provisions of Article 28. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Convention sets out the Conventions according to other international instruments. As regards the financial means to ensure the implementation of this Convention, from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the work of the central authority or the additional employment of another employee in the Ministry of Health and Social Care according to the assessment... An assessment of the government and our ministry will take 175 thousand kuna for the first year of application, and 173,000 and 480 kuna for the following year and will mean a total of 185 thousand and 600 kuna for the following year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I ask you to vote on this bill to confirm the convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32986	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32987	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In front of the club of representatives of the Croatian People's Party, I would like to say a few words about the draft law which I believe will confirm the Convention on Jurisdiction, relevant law, recognition, performance and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and child protection measures. Our country is a signator of a series of international agreements in the field of child protection and children's rights which, together with national legislation, in particular the Family Law, form a legislative and legal framework for effective legal protection of children. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child as a basic document on children's rights, Article 4 obliges the States of the Party to take all appropriate legislative, administrative and other measures for the application of the rights recognised in that Convention. It should be noted that the protection of children in the past decades between the signatories countries regulate the Convention on the Civil and Legal aspects of the 1980 International Kidnapping Convention, the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in connection with the international adoption of 1993 and the Convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children from 1996. This last one was drawn up in The Hague on October 19th, '96, and entered into force on 1.1.2002. The convention was signed by 34 states, and ratified only 15, compared to which the Convention came into force. Croatia signed it on 30.10.2008, and the main purpose is to provide a practical mechanism to enable countries that share common interests in protecting children to cooperate in this area. The objectives of the Convention are to determine a country whose authorities are competent to take measures aimed at protecting the person and property of the child. It shall also determine the rights to apply those bodies in the exercise of its competence, determine the right applicable to parental responsibility, ensure the recognition and enforcement of those safeguard measures in all Contracting States and establish such cooperation between the authorities of the Contracting States which is necessary to achieve the purpose of this Convention. For the purposes of this Convention, the term parental responsibility shall include the parental right or any similar relationship with respect to the powers to determine the rights, powers and responsibilities of the parent or other legal agents associated with the person or property of the child. This Convention applies to children from the moment of their birth until the age of 18. The Central Body for the Conduct of the Convention, i.e. to receive requests concerning issues covered by the Convention, will be the Ministry of Health and Social Care. For the purpose of protecting the child's property interests, it is proposed that the Republic of Croatia, when laying down its instrument of ratification, declare the reserve in accordance with Article 60a in conjunction with Article 55(1) of the Convention in order to reserve the competence of its bodies to take measures aimed at protecting the property of a child located in its territory and the right not to recognise any parental responsibility or measure if it is contrary to any measure taken by its authorities in connection with that property. In doing so, this reserve should be limited to the property of a child located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. If the Republic of Croatia reserves the authority of its authorities to take measures aimed at protecting the property of a child located in its territory in the exercise and the exclusive competence of the authorities of the Republic of Croatia would apply domestic law. In relation to the Convention, a specific provision of Article 61 of the Regulation under which the Brussels II bis Regulation will apply when a child has a regular residence in the territory of a Member State of the European Union has been adopted. This is the subject of a recognition and enforcement of the decision taken by the court of a Member State in the area of another Member State even when the child to whom the decision is taken has a regular residence in the territory of a third country which is a Contracting Party to the Convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and child protection measures. In relation to Articles 23, 26 and 52, it is proposed to make a statement that, at the time of becoming a member of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia will apply the relevant internal rules of Community law in connection with the recognition and enforcement of a judicial decision taken by the court of a Member State of the European Union on matters governed by the Convention. Therefore, representatives of the Croatian People's Party will also support a law confirming the convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32988	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32989	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After this comprehensive presentation of a colleague from the CNS, I will actually refer to only the part relating to the basis for the submission of the Law on the Attestation of the Convention on Jurisdiction with relevant law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children, which is actually contained in the provision of Article 139 and in particular paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that it is the duty of the state, among other things, to protect motherhood, children and youth, and to create social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life. It is clear that it is also important to note that the state must devote personal care to minors without parents and those who are not cared for by parents. Namely, the Convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, performance and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and child protection measures drawn up in The Hague in '96. The year was adopted and ratified by 15 states, and the convention was signed by 34 countries since its entry into force in 2002, and here we adopt it in 2009. The convention amongst others, I don't think that's enough in this previous statement at this point. It addresses child protection issues concerning the determination of a country whose authorities are competent to take measures to protect the person and property of the child. Next, the rights to be applied within and within the framework of those bodies, as well as the rights applicable to parental responsibility, the means of ensuring and implementing these safeguard measures in all Member States, and the means of cooperation between the parties in order to achieve the objectives of the Convention itself. The Convention shall be assessed as particularly important in order to avoid possible conflicts between jurisdiction and applicable law, recognition, and enforcement of decisions in the field of child protection as practically possible, since, in general, each country solves the issue of conflict of law with the regulations of other countries in certain relations and which may contain contrary legal solutions for each particular case. I think it is equally important to note that this legislative proposal provides that the central body for the application of the Convention, i.e. to receive requests on issues covered by this Convention, will be the health and social care ministry as the Central State Authority. I must say here, although I did not report for the purpose of the committee's debate to be on the parent board, which is the Parliamentary Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the question has been raised why in this case it is working as the Central State Authority of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, not the Ministry of the Family. In our debate, it has been clearly crystallised among the members of the Committee, i.e. the very interdisciplinary in this matter and in the approach to the problem contained in this Convention. It is clear, then, that due to the problem as the Central Authority for the Treatment of Members of this Convention, it would have been precisely the Ministry of Health and Social Care, because by now this ministry, more specifically their department, has already been spoken of by the Secretary of State, already acting on similar legal provisions and conventions already adopted by this Assembly assembly. To explain, I will point out how the measures mentioned in the article of this Convention that I have spoken about can therefore, in particular, relate to the assignment, achievement, termination or restriction of parental responsibility as its transfer. Then the right to care including the right to relate to the child’s care and, in particular, the right to decide on the stay of the child as well as the right to access, including the right to take the child, for a limited period of time, to a place other than the child’s regular residence. This includes, of course, custody, tutoring and similar institutions. Then determine and determine the actions of any person or bodies who care for the child’s or property that the child represents or assists. Also on the accommodation of a child in a foster family or childcare facility or providing care through... Or maybe some other similar facility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also refers to measures concerning supervision by a public body authorised to care for a child over each person whose child is entrusted and certainly also to the management of the protection and availability of the child's property. For the purpose of this Convention, this term parental responsibility shall include the parental right or any similar relationship with respect to powers which determine the rights, powers and responsibilities of parents, guardians or other legal agents associated with the person or property of the child. For the end, I can only say that the HDZ Club will accept this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention completely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32990	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And then it's up to the distinguished representative, Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32991	Dear Mr. Vice President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have the law under P.Z.E. No. 335 and we can ask ourselves at first what is the objective of this law? The aim of this law is to confirm the Convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and child protection measures, in order to create a framework for facilitating the work of competent authorities relating to the issue of jurisdiction and applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in the field of parental responsibility and child protection measures, and in the procedures conducted on the basis of some other international contracts which the Republic of Croatia has, for example, under the Hague Convention on the Civil and Law aspects of international child abduction. And as has already been said here, the central body for acting under the Convention, i.e. to accept requests concerning issues covered by the Convention, will be the Ministry of Health and Social Care. The States Parties to this Convention have taken into account several factors. First, the need to improve the protection of children under international circumstances, then the desire to avoid conflicts between their legal order on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement, measures to protect children, and the importance of international cooperation for child protection. Furthermore, they confirm that the best interests of the child must be of primary importance. It is then necessary to revise the Convention of 5 October 1961 in connection with the authority of the body and the relevant law for the protection of minors in order to establish common provisions in this respect, and taking into account the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20 November 1989. As regards the legal framework of this provision, they are in line with chapter 7 so that Chapter 1 treats the scope of the Convention, 2 jurisdiction, 3 applicable law, Chapter 4 recognition and enforcement, 5 cooperation, 6 general provisions and 7 final provisions through its members which my colleagues had previously spoken of. And what is to be pointed out is what Mr. Secretary also said to my previous speakers, and it is well reiterated, for the purpose of protecting the property interests of the child, it is proposed that the Republic of Croatia, when laying down its instrument of ratification, shall declare to the reserve in accordance with Article 60 and in conjunction with Article 55(1) of the Convention in order to reserve the competence of its authorities to take measures aimed at protecting the property of the child located in its territory and the right not to recognise any parental responsibility or measure if it is contrary to any measure taken by its bodies with that property. In doing so, this reserve should be limited to the property of a child located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, meaning Article 55(2) of the Convention. As regards relations with Croatian legislation, the confirmation of the Convention does not require amendments and additions to existing regulations in view of the direct application of the Convention and the position of international contracts in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Family law governing the institutions of family law and the conduct of family matters in the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia does not contain provisions that would prevent the application of solutions adopted in the Convention. It is also necessary to point out once again that this law confirms the meaning of the Convention on Jurisdiction, relevant law, recognition, performance and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and child protection measures in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, HDZ will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, performance and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and measures to protect children with the Final Bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32992	Thank you. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić is a respected member of the paper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32993	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I fully support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on jurisdiction and applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and measures to protect children with the Final Proposal for Law, which was submitted to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, Article 4 of the basic document of children's rights to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of a Child whose party is a party to a succession and the Republic of Croatia has been established that States Parties will take all appropriate legislative, administrative and other measures for the application of the rights recognised in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Convention of Jurisdiction and relevant law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children signed by the Republic of Croatia on 30 October 2008, was drawn up otherwise in The Hague on 19 October 1996 and entered into force on 1 January 2002, as we have heard and one of the three relevant international instruments in the field of protection of children's rights has been established within the Hague Conference on Private International Law in the last 30 years. Before this convention, they were brought in 1980. The Convention on the Civil and Legal aspects of the International Kidnapping of Children, which was signed on the basis of a succession of October 8, 1991. and the Republic of Croatia, and in 1993, the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in connection with international adoption. The main purpose of these conventions is to ensure practical mechanisms that allow countries' signatories to cooperate with each other in this area, i.e. in the area of protection of children's rights. So these conventions, which are designated by the authorities responsible for taking measures to protect the person and property of the child, the rights applicable to those bodies within their jurisdiction and the rights applicable to parental responsibility, the way in which these protection measures are implemented in all Member States as well as the means of cooperation between the States in order to achieve the objectives of the Convention, is precisely in that it avoids possible conflicts between legal provisions concerning jurisdiction, the relevant right of recognition, and enforcement, decisions in the field of child protection. The advantage of the Croatian legal order is that it is largely in line with the general legal guidelines for the protection of children, which were also the subject of the introduction of the proposal, and the implementation of the Convention will mean further improvement of the Convention. Because the Convention establishes a modern and efficient system of protection of the rights of the child, and in addition to that, the fact that the confirmation of the Convention does not require amendments and additions to existing regulations. The establishment of a central body for the conduct of the Convention, i.e. the adoption of requests concerning issues covered by the Convention, is fully logical and justified by the Ministry of Health and Social Care, primarily because there is a department in this ministry which is working or acting by two conventions, the one on the protection of international child abduction and the collection of alimony, but also because our family laws have established a part of the jobs and responsibilities in this area in the ministry responsible for social care affairs and in 2003. In this department, therefore, one employee will need to be employed by the existing one, so the adoption of this Law on Confirmation of the Convention, the requirements and additional resources in the state budget that will be secured in the rebalancing of the state budget. Which is a lot cheaper and simpler than setting up a new department in another ministry. Since the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Jurisdiction of the Law, Recognition, Implementation and Cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and measures to protect children with the Final Proposal for the Law, Croatian legislation is aligned with the acquis of the European Union, and to the welfare and protection of children's rights, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32994	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative of the Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32995	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where the country's duty to protect motherhood, children and youth, and to create all conditions that promote the right to a decent life, while the state pays special attention to minors without parents and those who are not cared for by parents. The convention was drawn up in The Hague in 1996, and entered into force in 2002. It was signed by 34 states and ratified by 15 states. The government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the convention and was signed in October 2008. The legal order of the Republic of Croatia is greatly in line with the general legal guidelines for child protection. The implementation of the Convention will be a further improvement of Croatia's legal order in terms of child protection, as this Convention establishes a modern and efficient system of child rights. The Republic of Croatia is a signator of a series of international agreements in the field of child protection and children's rights which, with national legislation, and in particular by family law, form a legislative framework for effective child protection. The Convention regulates child protection issues in terms of determining the state whose authorities are responsible for taking measures to protect the person and property of the child, the further rights to be applied, which will apply those bodies within their jurisdiction, and the rights applicable to parental responsibility, the means of ensuring the enforcement of those protection measures in all Member States, and the means of cooperation between the parties in order to achieve the objectives of the Convention. It is also important to point out that this Convention applies to children from the moment they were born until the age of 18. The specific importance of this Convention is also to avoid a possible conflict between legal provisions on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, and enforcement of decisions in the field of child protection, which is possible in practice, as each country solves the issue of conflict with the laws of other countries in certain relations, which may contain the necessary legal solutions for a particular case. In relation to Croatian legislation, the confirmation of this Convention does not require amendments and additions to existing regulations in view of the direct application of the Convention and the position of international contracts in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, it is also important to point out that this bill sets out that the central authority for the adoption of requests on issues covered by the Convention will be the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Furthermore, this law provides that requests from the authorities of the Republic of Croatia can only be delivered by means of a central body which contributes to clarity, monitoring of procedures and, of course, avoids possible duplication. Another issue covered by this law is that, for the purpose of protecting the property interests of the child, it is proposed that the Republic of Croatia declares the reserve in accordance with Article 60 of the Convention, in order to maintain the competence of its bodies to take measures aimed at protecting the property of the child, which is limited to the property of the child, located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. For all of this, I fully support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32996	Thank you. So we exhausted all the participants in the discussion. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32997	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and measures to protect children, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 335, the proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, performance and cooperation in relation to parental responsibility and measures to protect children. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority vote with 103 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32998	We now return to point five - Final proposal of the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 327 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Spatial Editing and by MPplatmir Mršić. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Marina Matulović Dropulić, Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go. Dear Marina Dropulić Matulović Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u32999	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There you are well aware that the government has proposed ten anti-recession measures. One of these measures is also the adoption of such a law that would allow all building permits to be issued within 45 days. To this anti-recession extent, it was said that this should enable objects with a higher value than 70 million kuna. However, we have decided that for all those objects that have so far needed a location permit and confirmation on the main project that this law applies to all of them. Therefore, in other words, this law does not apply to family houses and agricultural facilities up to 600 square metres or to large infrastructure facilities that require the issue of local and construction permits which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia and for which the Ministry of Authorisation and which must have contained environmental protection conditions. So, that famous IBCC directive and those special permits. So, it refers to a bunch of buildings and whether it's housing, malls, hospitals, schools, it means all such facilities. We have proposed a special law, meaning the lex specialis that would be worth this year and by the end of next year because, with our Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, there are 17 other laws that should be amended if we would like to amend our Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, so we thought this was much smarter, meaning that by one special law that applies to all these laws and to our and these 17 additional laws, then this law proposes to be adopted by an urgent procedure. And then, of course, everyone has to abide by this law. So, as I said, the most important thing is to allow for the start of the construction of economically significant objects within 45 days of the submission of the orderly request. I'm referring to an orderly request. So, it won't happen if the request isn't properly filed, then you can't even issue a building solution. Then enable the involvement of public legal authorities in the preparation of the project documentation before the law itself is passed. So, all those who give special conditions or give consent are obliged to give special conditions or consent within eight days. If no punishment is provided for such persons, a person amounting to 2 thousand kuna and a company or entity 20 thousand kuna. Also, to organise the competent administrative bodies of local self-government units to conduct procedures in good time because there is one thing here in the law that we propose to you to adopt that if a unit means a large city or county administrative department is not issued within 45 days then investors are complaining to the ministry and the ministry is measuringly solving the subject, which means that the ministry is issuing these building solutions instead. Thus, we think that we can simplify the overall process and ensure that investors who submit an orderly request are really authorised and obtained within a short period of time. So, I said no more location permits and confirmations on the main project. One building solution is issued and of course within 45 days. Here it is proposed in law whether up to 70 million kunas are issued permits or a solution to the construction of administrative bodies of counties or large cities, above which the ministry. The Association of Cities has also proposed that the county association be able to issue all the permits, however, means regardless of the amounts and that the ministry only resolves through a certain appeal or if the counties or large cities ask for help to resolve it. We accept that. Therefore, as far as northern counties are concerned, northern cities from central Croatia have no problem with this, this has been resolved so far. The problem is with the coastal area where there is great pressure and where there are much more demands than there are in the northern or central part of Croatia. So what we've made possible is that when a designer makes an idea project, he can immediately contact the one who issues special conditions and consent and they have to do it to him within eight days. If they do not do so, they do not have to ask them again, but to submit an orderly request and inform the administrative authority that both these consents or these special conditions have failed to obtain, and then this administrative body is required through the conference to do the job and to request and obtain all the special conditions and any further or consent that is to be obtained. We have said that one who submits the application is obliged to submit, make the main project and give a copy of the Katastrian plan and, in particular, a geodetic background showing the shape and size of the building particle, access to the traffic area and accommodation of one or more buildings on the building particle itself and the special conditions. On special terms, I said if they couldn't collect them, then they'd ask for the management department to do it. So, we've accepted a proposal from the City Association, and we hope that units mean big cities and counties will issue licenses in time. One more thing was there in the proposals of the Association of Cities where we are, and now I want to make that clear because they obviously didn't understand what it was about. In fact, we have so far had to pay a municipal contribution or a water contribution as it says in the solution before granting a building permit or a solution to the conditions of construction or a local permit. The solution said either that it could be paid for the wars, or that it had to be paid in full. It is clear that the units of local self-government did not do everything, I think they did not issue solutions in the short term but it lasted and lasted, the investor could not even have wanted to pay the municipal contribution and, of course, that the permit could not be issued. We have now said in the law that units of local self-government are required within 8 days of the application to issue a solution on the municipal contribution or Croatian water on the water contribution. If they do not, paying for a municipal contribution and a water contribution is not a condition that a construction solution can be obtained. Then when they, meaning the units of local self-government, depends on when they will submit such a solution, when they will make such a solution and when they will receive the funds. Therefore, we have made it possible for investors not to have to wait longer than 8 days and that they can also do that part of the job and pay everything they need, by saying that the local self-government unit is giving them a solution. So, that's the most important thing I had to say, I think I said everything besides that, once again, to point out, we made a complete operational plan, and an operational plan that also overlaps certain actions are due will be followed by all the major cities and administrative departments of the county and if they don't comply as I said they'll appeal to the investor ministry and then we'll deal with it. In addition, mayors or mayors of large cities can ask for the help of the ministry, we will make an agreement with them regarding where they need help and whether it is one case, whether it is more cases, or whether it is to help them issue those permits in time. Because we need to know that coastal counties unfortunately can't get enough people to issue permits because everyone would still rather be designers because they're also assets, I mean actually earning a lot more, that's one thing and the other thing is still not exposed to the public and it's easier to be a designer than the one who issues all those permits they have to issue. Now, I think that this law is really one possibility to give licenses faster and easier, and of course we will now, over a year and a half as long as this law is in force, and in the meantime, if it all means one pilot project defacto if it's all possible, then we will change our Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and all of these 17 laws that I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33000	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate and the clubs are up first. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I will say that the SDP in any case supports all activities and any deterioration of the laws and new laws that we bring here in the Assembly if they go in terms of efficiency, i.e. facilitating the investment of the economy, etc. So one idea to help encourage, i.e. encourage further investment in Croatia and its economy by passing a new law, at first glance of course we support it. But of course it's both the intention and the reason why this law was passed. And of course it is important whether there are other laws that regulate that area and which may not be well done enough to make this fundamental objection that sometimes our administration is slow, whether these laws are favourable, whether in some cases they are impervious and whether they are adequate to what they should be in Croatia today. On this side, the SDP Representatives Club considers that, of course, with the improvement of the situation when we talk about investments, it is also important to take account of the laws that are in place and we think that it would be better to make changes to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which proved to be quite bad and which proved to be the most common reason why the whole process and investment and construction and permits, etc., could be implemented, because certain provisions of this law in practice were inconclusive. For example, when a local authorisation was issued, or when a project confirmation was requested, it was not possible to carry out administrative procedure because it was not a solution. So many investors, many citizens could not in any way complain about what was set for them. But when we talk about anti-recession measures, and that's the minister in her presentation and notes. 26. 2nd of this year, the government presented 10 anti-recession measures, of which here we now see in practice a full four months after presentation only the second. The first one was the one from the emergency that we had to simply because we saw that so much further would not go on, we had to bring her in, it was the budget rebalance in April of the month. But four months after the introduction of these measures when Croatia is already deep in the crisis we have, we have only another measure that says the promoter will help to make investments in Croatia as efficiently as possible. And that's why there's a provision of what was in those measures and it's about 10m euros that the ministry will be able to solve all the paperwork directly. What is necessary to point out at this point is to look at little what investments in Croatia are in this year and over the past years. We have to say that in this year, so in the first four months direct investment in Croatia was 2.9 billion euros, which is 20.1% less than in the previous year. And when we look at the structure of these investments, then we are aware of the situation in which Croatia is. Croatia is not a country that, let's put it so inspiringly, for foreign investments mostly because of a difficult and slow administration that does not go hand in hand to those who would like to invest in our country. When you look at the structure of these investments, the most investment relates to financial intermediation and other financial services, even about 37% which speaks enough about what investments are or what Croatia today serves as a market for investors, or where it is best to invest in Croatia. It goes where the easiest way to make money or where the fastest return on investment can be achieved with a certain capital and financial services. And another paradoxical fact that at the same time Croatia invested an almost identical amount abroad. So Croatia has more investment almost outwards than the foreign investor has in Croatia. And normally, on that side, we support the adoption of any measure that would help to increase these investments as much as possible. What I would still point out, which is that it's hard to say that this is an anti-recession measure that will be very helpful for investment. This is more anti-recession measures, I'd say, for an administration that might be more effective in this case than it's ever been before. But that can't be our basic motive for working. We need to make the administration efficient, pay people to do their job and monitor the impact of those who are responsible for carrying out their duties and in this part to bring in acts so that construction and investment can take place uninterruptedly. In the end, I will say we are not against any measures that are necessary in terms of encouraging investment, but we are against the fact that new laws are trying to correct the fundamental laws that are necessary in our opinion, meaning for which there is a need to change it. It is about the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and we think that the fundamental law should be amended, not that additional laws try to correct the shortcomings in that law. And that's why the SDP Representatives' Club will be restrained as far as this law is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33002	Thank you. It's the HDZ Club. Honorable representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33003	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, but we also had a Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction where we discussed the same subject, and it is not important that I speak on behalf of the Committee because this text is enough together with the amendments because I would like to say a few words on behalf of the HDZ Club which certainly supports this law and we think that it is good and necessary to adopt it. And about how much some amendments are needed, the government itself has already said, and we have made such contributions. Therefore, it would not be necessary to debate much about this bill because it is undeniable that it should be adopted, that its benefit is possible and significant. But in any case, this law is an opportunity to talk about certain things, and it is already from the very fact that there is a proposal and debate, my colleague Maras spoke before me, about the new law, about the need for a new law compared to that existing law. In any case, this is an opportunity to say something about the problems that stood in the preparation of this law. In fact, the fact is that the biggest obstacle to the realisation of investments is to prepare it, that is to say, is to make it so contentable in the paperwork that slows it down and sometimes makes it impossible, but in any case it leads up to a few years in advance. I must say that I, as a designer in the service of many investors, have faced this problem, that this problem is often insolvent, but also in view of this problem on the one hand, which is not projectual, is not investorial, but here in this case legislative. Looking at all this together from the point of view and from this constituency, but also in the past term when I was chairman of the General Council for Spatial Planning, seeing these things stand on the other side, I can say that this paperwork is simply the result of a mental set that we've been building for a long, long time. In fact, the entire legislation in the past system was based on what is allowed, which is not allowed. Namely, only what was taxed was allowed was that it was possible, and it was not talked about the forbidden, and everything else was allowed because it was concerned about the possibility of someone remembering something that we hadn’t predicted. That kind of continuity of the mental circuit continues and it's not easy to change, but this is at least one attempt to change things, to move forward. I mean, urbanism has one thing, so to speak, curse, own problem, which is that in urbanism you can't say what was so far, it wasn't like that, from now on there's going to be something new. Urbanism and the legislation that treats it, spatial planning, urbanism, construction are such categories that they cannot start all at once but are constantly a complement, a change and an attempt to align. And that is why I absolutely agree with the minister who said that this law had to be passed as a special law, not to go into the amendments to the law and make it even better and even more meaningful, more effective law because coming to such an effective law might come too late in relation to the urgency of the problems that we have to deal with today. Is this a special law that points to the possibility of a construction paper being made within 45 days which is a very brave challenge which is a question of whether it is feasible, but I hope that and that this assessment is at least done in a way that represents a task that we should try and achieve. Why could it not work so far we will see through this time that is limited until 31.12.2010 although the experience of this law which we can in certain ways be viewed as a pilot law, then perhaps even new law will slowly introduce some changes. I mean, we'll have time to pass a new law. This debate about this law is certainly an opportunity to talk about things that are permanently tormenting us, which are not an integral part of this special law, but this law applies to them, too, to these problems, which is the fact that this law is only relevant when the documents for the construction approval are submitted, this time the building solutions instead of the location permit and the building certificate. So, to everything that represents a stage of preparation that is not covered by this law, it is worth discussing. And so the debate that was on the board, the debate that was at the club and the debate that was in the professional towers, is certainly worth pointing out and thinking about it in the future. For two problems, everyone concentrates. One is a catastrian geodetic background, i.e. proof of ownership and state in a space that is not the domain of this law, which it cannot. But that's something we're dealing with, the catastra issue, and we need to work on a particular geodetic background as to how it's set up as meaningful as it might have to be different. Anyway, it's a chance to talk about it and see if there are any channels to speed it up. For example, according to the illustration Vedran Rozic brought from Trogir, his contract was signed with the State Geodetic Authority. He says it'll all be settled by 2014. So, there's a problem with how to get there. But the problems are inherited from the weekends that we are now trying to solve with special laws. The second question is the statement of neighbours, or the consent of neighbours, which we have discussed and where we all agree that many neighbours abuse their function as neighbours. Not only are they abusing her to make fun of someone, but they're using them to maybe blackmail and get some money to give it to themselves. But also, unfortunately or fortunately, however you wish, we establish that it is one constitutional category that we cannot ignore, which we cannot skip. But this law introduces something completely new that should also give the public enough to know that everyone hears and realizes, that in the future statement of neighbors negative and complicated life to the investor to solve their problem can be sad and punishable for lost time, for lost gain, and that in the future when someone is engaged in some opposition to the outcome of a building solution to know that this can also cause him certain concrete damage. But also by making this law for the first time that it was not in practice, so here is at least in a special law to be and believe and hope that it will be translated into some new law that will also be the responsibility of the referents. Because it's the easiest thing to refuse, not solve it positively. Because if you refused, if you haven't solved the positive, then maybe you haven't made a mistake. And if you give a positive answer, you may have some responsibility for your confirmed answer. Now it is said that someone is guilty, and if they gave a negative solution, they could give a positive one. If someone's subject is standing because it's now just a matter of referrade or that's the subject of a specific reference, it's a matter of studying. But these are two very important dimensions of this law that I believe will accelerate, indeed speed up the path, shorten the way to the building solution. How complex it is to make a new Law on Spatial Planning speaks the fact that the minister had previously said, that making a new law would also withdraw corrections to 17 existing other accompanying laws. Of course, what counterpart Maras said just before and other laws regulate this problem, but on this occasion when we talk about this law, then we are aware of the possibilities and we better be realistic about what we should and what can be done. At the very end of the case of 31.12.2010, one term that is there for an hour, so unfortunately, this one pilot will not last for long or longer. But fortunately, it may be possible to turn into a more lasting law that during that time we can think about what things are working, which we can't, at least that period after we've submitted the papers within 45 days, we can get to the end. And I think that the government, with great awareness of the responsibility of one article and of others related to the 10 million-euro limit, or 70 million kuna as a certain amount of investment handled by the ministry, has been resolved by the ministry, not by the local self-government, that they have given not only the importance to local self-government units that they do so in the first place, if they can't do the ministry. I think the ministry is burdened enough otherwise with its problems, and besides, it seems to me that it already has one political dimension that is not legal enough for anyone to say that at large investments at some other levels something is being solved. And I think this amendment is very good. Many have seen this as a lack of good and acceptable for everyone. By upholding this law, the bill of law is here I really want a very good implementation in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33004	I thank you, Your Honor, and we move on to an individual debate. The first is in the debate the distinguished representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33005	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Today, we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions in order to encourage investment, although it is not the so-called "emergency procedure". European law. The urgent procedure of this non-European law is justified by the argument that it is the so-called An anti-recession law that fits into one of the 10 government anti-recession measures, which is to encourage direct investment and technology transfer. The measure is explained by the promoters to ensure effective coordination of the state and local level with regard to the creation of favourable conditions for direct foreign investments, to speed up the activity of already prepared projects and to introduce an accelerated process for all licences within 45 days for direct investments of more than 10 million euros. Or rather simply force the state and local administration and self-government to finally start doing what they should normally do in normal time. But apparently the state administration doesn't seem to be doing it, so it's kind of like the so-called so-called state administration. Anti-recession measures adopt laws aimed at forcing the administration to carry out its work within a reasonable period of time. This de facto government admits that one of the causes of the economic crisis and recession in which we are drowned is just the failure and ineffectiveness of the administration, and that rings for an alarm. And the adoption of this law, which should be worth about a year and a half, and then, what, I guess, is back to the old slowness and ineffectiveness more about how the administration works, and in the implementation, that is, the very quality of the roof law for this sector, which is the Law on spatial planning and construction, something is wrong. Because this law is nothing more than putting out of force certain provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, or the abolition of a local authorisation. This is a very unusual situation because a lower rank law abolishes certain provisions of the roof law. I am afraid that this has almost nothing to do with encouraging investment and facilitating investment, and what really no one can oppose is already in favour of the claim that because of the unquality Law on Spatial Planning and Construction there are major problems on the ground. So I have to conclude that behind this law is actually the intention of the Ministry of Construction as a pronoun to fix something that is no longer actually being fixed. Of course, that's where I mean the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. This new special law clearly seeks to bring about a significant and large error of the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which is that for the construction of objects that have an area larger than 400 m2 of grossly developed surfaces, a local confirmation is issued by a foundation which is not approved and which is later confirmed by the main project as an irregular act, which cannot be replaced by the usual instrument of construction permit. From contact with many citizens and citizens affected by this law, I have learned that after the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction there have been so many problems and troubles with issuing certificates until the position of writing is taken means in the form of a building permit or any administrative solution, but there is still a big problem because such a solution is not an administrative act, so there is no justification or legal remedy. I therefore believe that this law is now, under the pretext of encouraging investment, perhaps more foreign but domestic ones want to temporarily bypass the current Construction Act, with an apparent error or intention to write the law now not yet publicly recognised. This is accompanied by the following fact, which I have already mentioned, which is a predetermined period of validity by 31 December 2010, but the question remains whether we will return to the application of the provisions of the applicable law by 1 January 2011 or whether the ministry will amend and correct the now applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and finally comply with European legislation because this has not been passed by the laws adopted as harmonised in 1999, 2003, 2004 and 2007. This thought was quite openly acknowledged by Minister Marina Matulović Dropulić at the meeting of the Committee on Environmental Protection when answering my question why the ministry did not simply approach the amendments to the roof law on spatial planning and construction. Following everything previously said, I believe that a much more quality and long-term solution than the adoption and adoption of the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions would be an excellent approach to making amendments to and supplementing the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction through a regular procedure in which a quality solution could be found for this and for the economy of the State is extremely important. Namely, the formulation and obligations of the opinion-holder, consent or how special conditions have already been written lately are not clearly prescribed by material laws such as the Water Act, the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods, the Law on Public Roads, the Law on the Community Economy and others, and the setting of a deadline of 5, 8 or 15 days is not sufficient to legally bring about a harmonised public interest, which kills an act of approval for construction, i.e. building permit and must be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33006	Thank you. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Next, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33007	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. So, as we have already heard, this bill is one of 10 government anti-recession measures and it certainly wants to encourage direct investment, but also to ensure as we have already heard the effectiveness for now or bureaucracy that has so far stalled large investments by stalling the authorisation issue. Therefore, there is nothing negative about me here, but a positive and therefore the ministry has and the government has seen a flaw that is clearly known to all of us and needs to be solved. So this is actually nothing, or hasty, or this is to supplement anything. This is just one incentive that as a single pilot program will point out how many things we can or should in due course change and show all our effectiveness. Clearly, it can also be very simple to prove that, according to this legislative proposal, the effectiveness of the competent authorities will in the future clearly need to be ensured by certain sanctions. So that's what I said earlier, so I would disagree with some previous opinions, clearly respecting the right to a different view than mine. The character of this proposal is primarily contained in the fact that instead of the location permit and confirm the main investment project, i.e. The construction of buildings worth more than 10 million euros will take a maximum of 45 days, i.e. only a project permit will be required, and as we heard it will not issue, even if it stands here, as was the Ministry of Construction, but according to the amendments that will be accepted. We heard on the board those who were. They will then be issued by cities, or county. And that clear ministry will remain as control, or someone must be an instrument of insurance, the effectiveness of what is proposed by this law. What is also very valuable for the highlighted here, and it is in favour of this precisely that it is about seeking to boost direct investment. That's what it's all about. We must all work on it is that within 8 days it will be necessary to do so to obtain a permit to join the infrastructure. In particular, we all know what that applies to. So it's the plumbing, sewerage, electricity, gas. We who work in local self-government units clearly know how that part goes and how it applies. So we have city councils, we have municipal contributions, we have decisions on municipal contributions, the heights of municipal contributions, and they are clearly effective. Here, I'll tell you one particular example. The highway goes through my end now. It is clear, then, that as a unit of local self-government, we charge a municipal contribution to the construction of the highway. We can handle it or in a way that we can charge it all at once, we're looking for it, or we're going to do it in a few wars, we're going to do it in a contract. So this will also apply to all other buildings that are being built. Here is primarily thought, we know what these values are. They're probably objects we'll meet tomorrow in zones or somewhere else. However, the bottom line of the problem is, for me, and primarily the effectiveness of this again and the acceleration that if we in local self-government units don't respond within 8 days, then it's thought that we're actually in agreement with something. Then again, we have time to resolve the matter of this contribution. So, I don't think I should be looking at everything so black, even though I understand that there are those whose role it is to show it all the way it really shouldn't be and it's not, and it's got to be that way. I mean, it's like a home piece when someone's given it. Otherwise this measure, as we have heard, is limited to one deadline by the end of 2010, but it is certain that it represents one way per me, it is my opinion, towards a good practice for a quick authorisation. And so, what's the point of all this is going to mean a greater takeover of the responsibility of the authorities that they haven't had so far. It was rare to run away from making decisions to build large projects. And why is that? It was an escape from that responsibility, for someone would rather refuse a certain permit than take responsibility for issuing a permit. And we know what that means when we look at, say, efficiency and signification for all of us, if you're looking at not one month, if you're talking about the year that's the amount. That's a lot of money that's been lost and lost so far. And that is why we should actually right now commend the government's proposal and the drive to achieve efficiency and speed in resolving these investments. And that's why it's an anti-recession measure, and it's good, and we should actually all support it, and I'm calling on the opposition colleagues to do it. In my opinion, this measure should also have a positive impact on a number of entities in the investment and real estate market. From builders, investors, to producers, furniture sellers, architects, consultants. All related service and production activities. They're all tied to this efficiency and solving this problem. Therefore, all these activities will succeed at speed and efficiency and increase certain values in the real estate investment market. It should also be said that this measure should, in my opinion, also affect banks, with regard to the release of funding. And credit approval, which is very important. Why? Because we have a measure of about six months ago when banks sharpened the criteria for lending to all possible absolute parameters that they could, when it came to their control of the success of certain projects. So the example is for financing the construction of business centres, asking for more than 50% representation, which is why all major projects were on hold. And then again, this is about earlier what I said was that some did not issue certain permits, afraid primarily of taking responsibility for themselves, so he preferred to refuse rather than give the green light so as not to make a mistake in that regard, so when it comes to the one who was in charge of it. And it was mostly reduced to smaller business housing facilities with a surface area of up to 3,000 square meters. And that's basically stopping the economy. Many have lost a great deal in projects of more than 10m euros a year, under alleged signs of paper. It can be said, for example, that this could be calculated in principle on that amount within a year one million euros. And that's not a little bit. The economy has lost even more, and it is known in general that when the realization of such projects of a certain size starts and it starts to realize that jobs that have over 100 employees are created, and that is also how much it pays, and that is also the same amount of resolution and security for many families. That's why I'm going to support this bill, primarily as an anti-recession measure, because the impasse in the economy shouldn't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33008	Thank you. It is next that distinguished representative Daniel Srb, who is obviously not there. He's losing his right to debate. And then it's next in line to Honorary Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33009	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I have to say at the beginning that the SDPs were referred to the procedure of 25 anti-recession proposals and that some of us did not even discuss in this House. The whole time it's been going through a discussion of the truth about 10 anti-recession proposals that it or should be directed by the government. However, out of those 10 anti-recession proposals, we didn't get any of them except today. One is the rebalancing budget, it is not anti-recessional, it is simply necessary because the revenues have failed and had to be on the spending side to write less and that is it. And it comes to this proposal, which is interpreted as an anti-recession proposal. However, what cannot actually be anti-recessional in this proposal is that public administrations, or those who should issue and give opinions and consent, issue building permits, are forced to do their job. And then it's an anti-recession proposal for the state administration, not for the economy, right? We are thus speeding up the state administration to normally implement laws, not to speed up the economy. And that's the main taste of that proposal. And on the trail of everything my colleagues have said, and it's about intelligence, that's it. Whoever's older, who's what or who's in charge, this law is what you would say, lawyers know that special law or lex specialis that has its own roof law, which is the Law on Construction and Spatial Planning. And precisely because it is essentially the constitutional principle of the opposite of having a law that is specially governed by the main law, we are, for a very simple and simple reason, abstention to this law, because we cannot derivate at the end of the law or the role of this parliamentary body that decides on Croatian legislation. One law that now de facto is the one that is governed by the roof law. And it's simple if it's not the law of the Constitution, if it's contrary to constitutional principles, then we can't support such a proposal either. The fact is that this proposal in the state administration means certain accelerations and we welcome it, but this is a problem that needs to be addressed systematically. And that is what we lack in Croatia and that is what is now being shown as systematic neglect of serious reform and serious reform of the state administration. When I say state administration, then I mean management at all levels. It can't happen that at a time when you're all blooming, when everyone earns certain brakes exist to get licenses at that time, while in the second time when the recession, when no one invests, it's exactly that door they want to open. The system must operate on clear foundations and principles within the same deadlines for all and on the responsibility of those who implement it. And in that sense, there is no reason not to welcome those things that call for the responsibility of those who are responsible for issuing consent and opinions. After all, and issuing permits within the right time limit. However, it is something that we must do daily and systematically to the laws that exist, not to the laws that are specifically extorted under recession and which in some ways derivates the legal system that we have so far. And in this way we're actually speeding up something, we're initiating something that's a special case of a law that's already in force. And besides, here's another question that I think is important. This law is a law with a term of use of a year and a half according to what it says, so now I'm asking whether that means that after a year and a half after the state administration, the administration will continue to work as old as it was before this law. So, it's going to work, it's going to take a long time to issue a permit like it's supposed to now. You see, that's not good because if we get to some standard, if we get to some standard, then we shouldn't go back to the way things were. And that is why, in this sense, there is a need to discuss systematic solutions to those who can make a full change and let's say that we reform the state administration rather than fire measures like this. Because this law, and that's why we can't support it, and that's why we're going to be abstentions, is a law that's anti-recessional, as I said at the beginning of the state administration and not for the economy, and it's contrary to constitutional principles. It would be better by the government if maybe this first anti-recession law was proposed, we didn't get any of the others. There's talk of ten, I don't know them, I haven't seen them except for media speculation and certain announcements. But that hasn't arrived yet. And what I would like and the right measure would be that perhaps, instead of this law, some other law came, such as cuts, means decisions or government intentions to reduce certain fiscal givings in the year in which the economy is faced with problems. For example, here's a water contribution, take this as an example because the separations are very large without mentioning other fiscal contributions, not to mention... which someone has listed as having over 130 local self-government units in Croatia, so that these are some things that should be thought about if they really want to start an economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33010	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Angelko Mihalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33011	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. In fact, I think that this law has certainly come at the right time and that it is very important and that it is not the law for the state administration. I think the law is in business right now. And even this state administration that we can have a lot of objections to today is actually ultimately having to be in function of the economy. This law not only puts out the application of the local permit and the confirmation of the main project and so we change it with one document, which is a solution for construction and which provides for a lot of, a series of sanctions for those involved in the process of issuing a building solution. In this way, it will certainly contribute greatly to this and we agree that these times are now crisisous, so in many ways it will help to speed up construction and thus to keep as much or attract investors, both foreign investors and domestic investors. Namely, building buildings and especially greenfield investment is certainly a fundamental thing in the economy, we know that construction is running a number of other branches of the economy and that something needs to be done in these times. Look, I'm there, I come from Varazdin, there's a lot of investment going on, and a lot of investment has been started, but here's the last situation that's been a lot of it. If we're not going to be efficient and fast on the one hand, especially by solving and issuing these building solutions and trust me that and so on, there's less and less investment that's going to be even less. However, it is not only now that this ministry and this law, the government and all our eyes should be against the government that it is the government that will need to launch these investments. The government and the Parliament, and we here in the Parliament have to create these legal frameworks and I think that right now, here are local elections, that it's up to all of us in local self-government units, and even in the counties that we are aphimously working and acting on attracting foreign investment, domestic investment, because that's the only way we're going to get out of the crisis sooner. Investments taking place and I have to commend the state administration in Varazdin and not only the licensing sector but also the grantines and cadastres, so if you want quality spatial plans, quality detailed plans and arrangements of the premises, it contributes to the fact that when an investor enters an area, he knows what is waiting for him and in what time he can get a permit to build. So a lot of measures there should be, a lot of things should be about it contained and as I said it was here with us in the north west it worked relatively well so it was also free to say the most greenfield investment in our country. But also trust me that the units of local self-government are municipalities that work in the air on it and on the formation of new zones and with the great help of our government we have succeeded in it. This law will certainly make a significant contribution and banks will probably feel safer at this point and will continue to invest and lend entrepreneurs to invest in new greenfield investments. I have voiced that since I am a member of the Committee on Urbanism, today on our board I have expressed one doubt that these ingenuity from this great and these are generally economic facilities, part of the value of the investment is more than 10m euros that they are now in the jurisdiction of publishing in the county and city offices and permits, so there could be some other things and these political outsmarts and bickerings as we have now been in this pre-election time where unfortunately we have lost some investors because capital is quite timid and if more local politicians refer to it in one irresponsible way then we are just coming into real problems. However, here is the minister who assured me that if there were such moments, the Ministry of Environment and Construction would react there. It gives one security to such serious projects and in any case, that it would all work together might need to be looked at in that way. It's not as black as the situation wants to be shown here, and it's not ingenuity and commitment especially to the county. At this pre-election time, I listened especially in my county where there was the most talk about co-financing of student ticket transport, and then co-financing of a glass of milk at school, etc. I think that the county has one far more important and more important role in all of this, especially in creating a positive entrepreneurial climate in its area and once again I say attract and create conditions for entrepreneurs who invest their money correctly. Here, that law, I appeal to everything, should be supported and I will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33012	Thank you. And finally, distinguished representative Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33013	Unfortunately, I don't share optimism, but no pessimism, that's the law, I still have my attitude. Because I'd just ask a question when we get involved in the debate, how many investors and greenfield investments you've brought to your area and how many experiences you've had. In my debate at the Committee on Local Self-Government, I told the Honorable Secretary of State, whom I welcome, and above all, the Minister, that I would sooner be in favour of a law that would give the police the ministry to force those who slow down the process of issuing local permits to carry out the obligation within the deadline. In fact, the fact that there are some dubiosiss around our laws and certain that certain intervention measures are necessary under certain circumstances. There's a problem, I'll give you an example of the freshest. A plant that will employ 140 people, worth several times more than 10m euros. First, we came up with a spatial plan, so the Ministry of Culture gave this Department of Natural Heritage the consent, so that's what's going on. So then we went to make... Well, it's going on again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now finally, in order to get a location permit, they need again from the ministry's competent authority to get the consent to build a factory at that location, which is also the property of the city. Not to mention the other one, the secretary of state smiles, knows who I mean, to start from HEP where the historic event is like 32 million on the lot is a hit if you get all the consent from HEP and the possibility of going into investment within 3 to 6 months. Within a year, this is, say, a 12 million kuna hit on the lot. Croatian roads, Croatian highways, we have given protection of space, I know everything, and I always agree that it is better to ask three times than to ask once because after more returns there is no, the collapse is the worst variant because someone has put their work and effort even without consent and when it comes to breaking down the most difficult paper. However, the fact is that if the spatial plans got all the consent, if the plans of the lower order got all the consent to repeat this process difficult, we can, colleagues were talking about local, municipal operation, investor when I came, we held a meeting with representatives of local, municipal institutions, get an indication of what should be done so as not to report the problems afterwards, and essentially very quickly and effectively solve the issues that are related to the issue and location... to the main project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What else should also be considered is not only these papers, I say and the funds the ministry should have, the law, I said propose a law which will empower you to report and take criminal sanctions against institutions that do not meet the deadline. We know from the recent past that the Ministry of Agriculture has had a system of 57 days to demand a supplement of the opinion to get a new 60 days back. And that's how things can go around forever. As for the burden, here when, excuse me to return, I think the Committee on Local Self-Government is also told and the Parliament needs to go, which is why we have to go with these laws some time. I will now say the names, which are offices, in which counties, in which cities, where places that do not comply with the law of the prescribed obligation, and then we must take fire measures. I'm also against, and here's what's mentioned here, and my colleague, I mean our colleague, but on the left and right when this comes about local self-government and intrusion, 7.5 kuna per cubic metre is a communal contribution to manufacturing activities in the city of Zabok. On a facility of 3.5 thousand square squares of water, the state took 900 thousand, and we didn't get a kuna and we took 128 thousand, but local self-government is called. Okay, I agree with solidarity, separation for water facilities, either irrigation or draining, but I think that's one of the topics that needs to be discussed. I am now looking at my colleague Boris Gulic from Bistra where he works intensively and builds, Kresho, pardon, Kresho, where he works intensively and builds, where he is sure to welcome a percentage of the water contribution to solve the drain. At those locations where these investors invest. Because investors ask questions and says why we give that kind of money and there's nothing left for you that arranges water and water equipment for us. Mostly with the abstention... here suggestions with hope to help, but even more hope that we will take other measures and come with legal proposals that will really try to solve this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In which no one is guilty, they are all guilty, and the average receipt of all construction papers in Croatia is about 16, 17 months, honour of exceptions but I repeat those cases that are most written, the good ones are unfortunately written in this country, and the bad ones are always or potent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33014	Thank you. On behalf of the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ms Marina Matulović-Dropulic, the Honorable Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so I need to say something about people who issue permits. In fact, one part of you is considered that we are solely passing this law in order to force either state or local officials to do their job. No one, but literally no one talked about what kind of request was given. And that's why, when I was talking about the law, about what we're proposing, I specifically pointed out, and I specifically apostrophe to make an orderly request. Of course, believe me. We are doing administrative surveillance in certain places where there is a really great backlog in solving this and a generally no orderly request has been submitted. And then, of course, what happens is that these employees don't want to refuse the request, even though they might immediately reject it, but they're looking for a variety of supplements, and that's where it's going. This time we said, and the projectors have to do the supplement within eight days. So it's not just about people who betray, it's about investors and projectors, so I say, it's hard all the time to blame a part of the people who are involved, and they're really not guilty at all. What's more important to say is that we, in Croatia, have all the spatial plans at last, means 556 spatial plans of units of local self-government, which is particularly important because, of course, until these plans were brought together that it was not possible to bring or issue permits. And what Mr. Agent Hanzek has well warned about, that's exactly what we've written in law. So both HEP and all those within 8 days must give special conditions or consent. If they do not give it, sanctions have been imposed in this bill, and if that does not happen at the conference either means that they do not come or do not give it within 5 days, in that case it is deemed to have been agreed. Therefore, it is particularly important that we try all these people in this way to really consider them responsible for all the work they are doing, but trust also investors who have to behave significantly differently and the projectors start to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33016	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33017	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Conduct in Construction Conditions to encourage investment, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 327, the legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and by the representativeplatmir Mršić. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. Mr. Davor you're snotting the secretary of state. Here you go. Amendment 1 to Article 14 The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33018	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33019	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 28 second amendment of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33020	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33021	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Third, Article 29 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33022	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33023	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 37 fourth amendment of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33024	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33025	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 46 fifth amendment of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33026	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33027	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And the sixth amendment to Article 47 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33028	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33029	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Afterwards, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of Amendments one to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33030	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33031	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 2 to Article 6
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33032	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33033	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 3 to Article 7
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33034	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33035	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 4 to Article 28
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33036	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33037	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The amendment shall be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33038	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33039	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. And the amendment of Mršić's representative, the amendment refers to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33040	The amendment is not accepted because it has been consumed or accepted through the amendment of the two Committees on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33041	Okay. It means he's been accepted through this other one. Therefore, there is no need to vote on it. Amendment 2 to Article 27
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33042	The amendment is not accepted as the 15-day period is considered inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33043	So this second amendment was not accepted. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić is not here, so we'll have to vote. Who's in favor of this amendment that the government doesn't normally accept? Please, let's get on with who's for the amendment and who's not. So we vote. We're voting on the 2nd amendment. Please, let's get involved, let's vote. Score. This amendment was not accepted because 36, abstentions 2, and against 64 votes voted. The first one has already been accepted. I therefore put to the vote the final draft law on the conduct and conditions of construction in order to encourage investment. Please, let's get involved and vote for the law. Score. This Final Bill proposal was adopted by the majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, 21 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33044	We're going to the 8th point of the agenda now. It is - The Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Caustic Shooting, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 333 You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Davor Bozinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Allow me briefly to explain the proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on Casual Shooting and the importance of its adoption. The adoption of the Convention is the result of a process launched in Oslo as early as November 2006. It's so-called. The Oslo process that launched a broad campaign under which a series of government meetings and NGOs were held. The text of the Convention was agreed and adopted in Dublin on 30 May 2008, and the Convention was opened for signing in Oslo on 3 December 2008 when the Republic of Croatia signed, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, Foreign and European Affairs Minister Gordan Jandrokovic. The text of the Convention has been adopted by 111 states so far, has been signed by 96. Representatives of the Republic of Croatia actively participated in the preparation and in all preparatory meetings of the Convention and particularly highlighted the overall approach of the victims, and contributed to the adoption of provisions concerning rehabilitation and reintegration of the victims of causative ammunition, as well as members of their families. Thanks to the involvement of our representatives in the final text of the Convention, part of the need to provide assistance to victims in view of age and sex, as well as part of the individual approach of each victim. It should be pointed out that the adoption of the Convention has had a major impact on the experience and practice of the States in preparing and applying the Convention on the Prohibition of Production, Use, Storage and Transfer of Anti-Walk Mines and on their destruction. It's so-called. The '99 Ottaw Convention. a year that has proved to be an example of the successful association of states and NGOs in the fight against weapons. The Convention on Casual Shooting is therefore a multilateral international contract prohibiting the use, production, storage and transfer of this kind of ammunition consisting, as we unfortunately know from our experience, of explosive bombs specially designed for spraying or dispersion from the dispensary. It's a very destructive weapon. Considering that cast bombs spray a large amount of explosive devices on a large surface where, without purpose and choice, they wound and kill. Especially the fatals may be lagging parts of the cascade ammunition that have not exploded, which for years, even up to ten years, remain active. The provisions of this Convention reflect the efforts of the States to end the suffering and victims caused by causative ammunition through international cooperation and commitments, thus confirming one of the fundamental principles of humanitarian law on the prohibition of weapons which cannot distinguish between civil and military objectives. The key obligations that States Parties make in this Convention are contained in Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Article 2 defines the victims of caste ammunition as all persons who have been killed or have suffered physical or psychological injury, economic loss, social marginalisation and persons directly affected by the effects of caste ammunition as well as members of their family and community. The article also defines what is a case-by-case ammunition, hence conventional ammunition designed to disperse or release explosives of individual weight less than 20 kg, and includes explosive triggering. Article 3 refers to the obligation to destroy stored stocks within 8 years of the entry into force of this Convention, with the possibility of an extension to an additional 4 years. Article 4 obliges States to ensure the cleaning and destruction of caustic ammunition residues within 10 years with a possible extension of 5 years. And it pays extraordinary attention to the convention to the obligation of the state to the victims of causative ammunition. The State is expected to provide, in accordance with applicable international humanitarian law and human rights for victims of causative ammunition in areas under its jurisdiction or control, appropriate assistance to age or gender, including medical care, rehabilitation, psychological support, and to seek to ensure their social and economic inclusion. Each state is therefore required to take action, it is expected to take all efforts to collect reliable, relevant data on victims. And at the end of the convention, it stresses that every country that fulfils its obligations has the right to seek and receive assistance. The convention has unlimited duration. It shall enter into force six months after the 30th ratification of the state that signed the convention, and until now it has been signed by 96 states and ratified by seven. So Croatia would be the eighth. The Convention is a legal framework that will allow the Republic of Croatia to regulate the area concerning the ban on the development of production, storage or transfer of caste ammunition, and the implementation of the law that you hope to adopt will be in the area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, for all the above reasons, I suggest that the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on Casual Shooting be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33046	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open up the debate and the clubs are up first. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33047	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's a few words on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Casual Shooting. As the Republic of Croatia has so far been actively taking part in all preparatory meetings of the Convention on Caestic Shooting, especially in the area of rehabilitation, reintegration of the victims of caestic ammunition, where the importance of the parties' obligations to the victims is often highlighted, as well as the need to clean up the polluted area and destroy supplies. The Republic of Croatia does not approve of the use of caste ammunition, and has so far repeatedly warned about the excessive humanitarian consequences that it has left on the civilian population. I would say with full right since the Republic of Croatia itself was the victim of causative ammunition, causative ammunition during the Homeland War. The government of the Republic of Croatia took a decision at a session held on 14 November 2008 to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Convention on Casual Shooting. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Croatia signed this convention at an international conference in Oslo on 3 December 2008. The aim of the Convention is to prohibit the use, prohibition of development, ban on production, ban on storage or transfer of caste ammunition. Certainly prohibiting the proliferation of knowledge technologies needed for the development and production of caste ammunition. One brief review of experience in these areas. In late 1979, the 1980s, the beginning of the Iraq-Iran War, which had the character of mass pedestrian conflicts. The former state also took part in the production of caste ammunition, a specific military-technical institute at the request of Iraq personally, Saddam Hussein, Milosevic's approval, began a project, a project that had a code code of Koal 15. The project had the task of producing heavy artillery.262 mm. To us, it's a firearm or a firearm known as Orkan 262 mm. A few years later, the project was successfully completed. It was carried out in the early 1980s and unfortunately 10 years later this same ammunition was used in the Republic of Croatia with non-small civilian victims in Zagreb and in other areas of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia was fully aware of the damage to destruction that was primarily directed towards the civilian population, since the non-selective use of this artillery is caused by inappropriate civilian victims not only during use, but by what is particularly important, so-called. bells or cascade submunition remain for many years a threat to restore space after the end of the conflict. For all these reasons, this Convention on Caustic Shooting is of great importance and, as pointed out in Article 2 of this Convention, the States Parties to this Convention are almost a hundred of them deeply concerned that the civilian population and individual civilians continue to endure the severest armed conflicts. The Parties to the Convention are determined to end the suffering and victims caused by causative ammunition for all time at the time of their application when they do not function as planned or left behind. They are also concerned that, for the rest of the case, it kills civilians including women and children, impairs economic and social development, including the loss of income for life, interferes with post-conflict recovery and recovery. It slows or prevents refugees and exiles from returning, and may have a negative effect on the establishment of peace and humanitarian efforts within the states as well as on the international agenda, as well as other serious consequences that can take many years after the use of this ammunition. Unfortunately, there are major national supplies of causative ammunition, and therefore, the parties to the Convention on Caestic Shooting are determined to ensure its rapid destruction, deeming it necessary to effectively contribute in a coherent manner to address the challenges of removing the rest of the cascade ammunition worldwide and to ensure its destruction. When it comes to the cascade of conventional character, it should be distinguished from the cascade ammunition that is based on so-called. I would say far less negative effects on civilians because it has certain ability to identify goals and destroy targets selectively. Of course, this type of ammunition does not come and does not involve various pyrotechnic systems that are used to deceive radar, to interfere with radar, or ammunition designed exclusively for anti-aircraft defense and which is currently very intensively used in the world in different areas, Afghanistan, etc. where attacks from anti-aircraft missile systems are highly likely and pose a major threat. What should also be pointed out, Croatia's position as NATO members requires that such a convention be supported because it is a clear view of all NATO member states that full support is given to the implementation of all provisions of this Convention given its humanitarian character and given the huge civilian victims. The reconstruction and reconstruction problems of the war-related areas are becoming more difficult with this type of ammunition. As a result, it is clear that the HDZ Club will also give full support to the confirmation of the convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33048	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33049	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the introduction, the State Secretary complemented what we received in writing, counterpart Ćosic was now talking about some practical aspects of the use of this weapon. That's why I'd choose a different approach from the HNS club. First of all, I would like to ask you, have you noticed that the law is otherwise called in the Government proposal and in the application? I don't have any objection about that, it's one mistake that was made subconsciously because it's really about the ammunition that should be punished. Once it's written in criminal terms, another time it's a case-by-case ammunition. But is someone on this planet being punished today for using such ammunition? My colleagues and colleagues, absolutely not. No one has ever been punished, we've heard from the Secretary of State that so far only seven states have ratified this convention. 30 of them must ratify the convention in order for it to enter into force. It won't happen for years. America, Russia, China didn't even sign, let alone ratify or do it. Unfortunately, a neighbouring country is also very important to us for peace in the area of Southeast Europe, as well as has not signed this convention, that is to say. This is where we should talk about it. For that reason, we still have a lot of work to do. We will absolutely support this convention. It is unquestionably the only right way, but also small nations, small under quotes, and small states have the right to a moral vertical and to say and to say what needs to be said. I would very much like to hear today from our colleagues sitting in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly among us five of them, which is what the state of Croatia does and our delegation to remind us of these illogicalities, to remind us that things have to change. My colleagues and colleagues, war has been part of mankind's history for thousands of years. In fact, we dare call it a period, or such behavior a culture of war, a terrible expression, a culture of war. Is there anyone who can link culture to war in any way? Unfortunately, it's a term used. This decade has been declared by the United Nations for the first time in mankind's history by a decade of peace culture. A decade in which it is intended to defeat the culture of war in all ways. In all ways. This is a small start. But just the beginning because I'm going to tell you, colleagues and colleagues, let's be realistic, and the Geneva Convention and this convention and the Ottawa Convention and the Convention on the Depreciation of War Crimes. It's all part of a culture of war. We give a framework on how to kill and what you can kill, not fight war and kill. It's sad, it's really sad, but it is. So let's remind each other of this decade, the decade of a culture of peace, what have we done to talk about in different places? I have launched one important, I believe, initiative of the Council of Europe in the Parliamentary Assembly, in the second half of the year we will work on preparing this report and I will remind you very much of that data. The Convention on War Crimes Depreciation, once again, will I say, do you know that out of the large 7, G7 none of them 7 have ever signed, let alone ratified that convention? No, I don't. So, small countries, sign, respect, and others have their own way of thinking, that's economic input, that's being exported, that's living, etc. It's something that doesn't stand here, and I think we need to look each other in the face and say why it's not standing? Why are we afraid to talk about it? Will Malta, Montenegro and Croatia change something important in world relations when they ratify these documents? We won't. We won't regret it. But we show which way to go and show that we are on the right track and that we should absolutely try to get as many countries as possible to take the same path. Here, therefore, I wouldn't go into any details related to some of the articles that we discussed a little bit more closely. I would say once again that the HNS club absolutely supports this proposal by the government. We will raise all hands for the convention, but please try to be very active and on the international stage, to remind us of a series of illogicalities, the slowness with which these conventions are killed after ratification are implemented in practice because without implementation there will be no real shift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33050	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33051	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, This Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on Casual Shooting with the Final Proposal of the Law constitutes a legal framework allowing the Republic of Croatia to regulate the area concerned by banning, use, development, production, storage or transfer of case-by-case ammunition. The deadlines for the destruction of supplies are prescribed but the obligations for victims of causative ammunition of international cooperation are also laid down, as well as for the provision of assistance. This proposal is partly the result of the effectiveness of the Ottawa Convention, so I will remind you that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia has confirmed a decision declaring the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Ban of Use and the Creation of Mines, Production and Transfers, means anti-walking mines and their storage. That the Republic of Croatia was extremely active in implementing this, that it also organised another regional conference related to it and carried out its obligations under the Ottawa Convention 6 months ago, before scheduled deadlines. In view of the above-mentioned experience in the construction and implementation of the Ottawa Convention, as well as the experience of the Homeland War and the great humanitarian consequences that it has left to the civilian population, but also the economy, we have responsiblely and publicly alerted the threat of this weapon. All of this somehow gave us the right to participate actively in the preparation of these proposed conventions. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, as we have heard, means in November it made a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Convention, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs signed this Convention in December 2008. Since so far there has been no reference to the basic characteristics of this ammunition, here I will only get to know briefly in general. That there are more than 200 different war systems in the world today that contain several hundred to several thousand triggers. That in the world it is assumed that there are about 400 million bombs left in the wide area and in the heavily defined borders, that in this world nearly 100,000 people were killed, that in all the casualties 98% were civilians, 27% of the children in 30 countries affected by this problem. The main problems with this ammunition are that it's difficult to determine the exact limits, which even 40% of the berries don't explode, which is a very complicated system of destruction, which is a very expensive process of destruction, a very complex transport but also a marking of space within relatively broad borders. And most importantly, the specific problem is that civilians and economies are the main objectives. The other goals are almost gone. How are things in the Republic of Croatia? There are 83 locations registered with us. In 9 counties and 20 cities and municipalities on 5 million squares. So these are areas polluted by this kind of ammunition. The largest number is in Zadar County where I come from, and that's in its vicinity and in its hinterland. So in the area of 9 units of local self-government, at 58 locations, at almost 2 million squares there are these ammunitions. To date, only 27 locations on a 5km square area have been cleaned in the Republic of Croatia, and cleaning works are under way at several locations in Zadar County. Although the unresolved question of cascade ammunition, i.e. in whose portfolio it belongs, the Croatian Mine Action Centre had to clean up those premises for reasons of security, so to speak, why significant funds were allocated. A thousand pieces were found and almost destroyed, and it was mostly KBI and in a small amount of MK I. Most of the works took place in Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska and Ličko-Senj County. The largest number of victims of this ammunition was in the rocketling of Zagreb. I'll remind you of May 2nd and 3rd when 176 people died. Six of which is one pyrotechnician. The total number of victims in the Republic of Croatia is 238. 42 victims were killed in 32 incidents in the period from '91. until '98, and 10 victims in the '98 period. 2008 The use of cascade ammunition in the Republic of Croatia is sufficiently related to the fact that the victims are exclusively civilians in very populated areas and cities. The sufferers are 59% of men, of which 9 boys and 41% of women are also 9 girls. Until now, the registered space has been marked by marks that the Croatian Mine Action Centre has specifically designed and set up for unexploded deadly means, including this ammunition. I believe that this is also an opportunity to point to certain irregularities of the existing legislation, which refers to the role and task of the Croatian Mine Action Centre in the context of tape ammunition in areas that are not defined as a classic mine suspected space. I'll remind you one more time, I don't think it's ever enough that so far within the borders of a mine suspected area in a thousand 270 mine incidents a thousand 878 people were killed, of which 474 were fatal, and a thousand and 400 with mild and severe injuries. 69 children were killed, and outside of a mine suspected area in which these types of ammunition that is the subject of this convention were mainly scattered, 65 children were killed by 10 deaths. I certainly support this proposal, because I believe that a good legal framework, that prescribed deadlines are realistic for the destruction of supplies, that there are a lot of well-defined obligations in terms of victims, that international cooperation and assistance are thus defined to open up good opportunities, that the means are secured and that all parts of this Convention are implemented, which should ultimately allow for faster resolution and problems of the bells in the Republic of Croatia but also more significant concerns for victims. I also support the fact that, with the certainty that, with the correction of these irregularities related to the role of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the Republic of Croatia will successfully resolve its obligations under this Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33052	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33053	My colleague, I completely agree with you, everything you've said is fine. But you only finally touched what I thought you wouldn't mention, so I picked up the plate. In fact, we also have supplies of causative ammunition and I agree with you that this deadline that has been given is quite enough that 2 and a half million kunas as we have predicted to destroy that weapon are essentially spent during that period. Therefore, we too have obligations, not just decontamination of soil, terrain, etc. We must destroy what is stored in time in accordance with the Convention. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33054	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nevenka Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33055	Here's what we saw from the proposal. Mr Doric, I have said in the end but we have seen that the funds are secured in one segment, but there are other segments in the budget of the Republic of Croatia that ensure the implementation and implementation of this Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33056	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the Croatian government's proposing representative, Honorable Davor Bozinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to thank you for the discussion, and I'd like to mention only three things briefly. What Mr. Doric was talking about is the state of play in international relations, but this convention and its adoption is the continuation of a process that began with Ottawski. So it's not just the government but the NGOs here at the head of a concrete Coalition picked-up ammunition, so more than 800 NGOs around the world were actually that clog that led governments to move in this direction, and I'm sure it's a new way of raising understanding about this problem. And in any case, that is an additional reason for the support of the Republic of Croatia to this Convention. And the other thing I would also like to mention, this very formal framework that we are getting with this convention, which is on the trail of what the distinguished representative Marinovic was saying, is an opportunity to discuss all these issues at the moment when we change the laws, to bring new laws or you and sublegal regulations. And of course, as far as the funds are concerned, this is our assessment, so from the 2.5 million kuna already foreseen in the Ministry of Defence budget, we can get rid of those stocks that are not big in Croatia because Croatia and when it was offered on the market during the Homeland War, it never went that way and obtained a causative ammunition so that we can also be proud of the behaviour and decisions that were made during the Homeland War on Casual Amputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33058	Thank you. And we continue the debate. It is up to the distinguished representative, Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33059	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia plays a prominent role in the field of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, disarmament and control of weapons thus ensuring the application of international humanitarian law. As a country that came out of an imposed war it did not want but which unfortunately could not be avoided by the Republic of Croatia faced with the problem of undestructed mines on the ground and stored mines of the former Yugoslav army as well as civilian victims. It is therefore interested in increasing cooperation and assistance, transparency and effective exchange of information, as well as preventing and combating prohibited activities in areas under the jurisdiction of individual countries. Unfortunately, we have a live and practical experience and we are very active because we have this right, very often and in international contacts with full rights we can say if anyone in the world can talk about the value of the measures then it is certainly us Croats because we know what the real value of peace is. As an effective way to achieve these objectives, the Republic of Croatia considers accession to the consistent implementation of international agreements under the auspices of the United Nations and the creation of new legal instruments in areas where existing international agreements have so far failed to fully regulate certain matter in a satisfactory manner. The Republic of Croatia is a party and active participant of all major international agreements and conventions on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction as well as conventional weapons, including the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the use of certain conventional weapons with excessive traumatic effect or action regardless of the objective and its four... including the amended and updated Protocol II on the prohibition and restriction of the use of mines, explosive devices and other devices, and the Convention on the Prohibition of Use, Production, Storage and Transfer of Anti-Walk Mines and Their Explosion, that is, the Ottawa Convention, which was recently referred to by the State Secretary of State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The effectiveness of the Ottawa Convention has prompted the creation of a Convention on Casual Shooting in which the Republic of Croatia actively participated in all preparatory meetings. The aim of the Convention is to prohibit the use, development of production, storage and transfer of cascade ammunition, along with the schedules for the destruction of stocks. The obligations of the States of the parties relating to the care of victims of causative ammunition, international cooperation and assistance, transparency measures and other provisions necessary for the successful application of the Convention are also laid down. The Republic of Croatia will contribute further to the fight against weapons which leaves an indelible mark on the civilian population and join other States with the parties to the Convention in implementing its provisions on the assistance of victims and prohibiting the use, development, production and transfer of caste ammunition and destruction within the prescribed deadlines. The fact is that Croatia came into possession at the beginning of the Homeland War of Murderous Assets, whose use today was banned and banned by international conventions. We know under what historical circumstances this has happened, we know under what conditions Croatia has taken over the military former JNA. Downloading military is not a system of the Swedish table. The warehouse cannot take just what is needed and what is allowed, but it is commendable and happy as Croatian citizens that Croatian armed forces at the time of the most severe armed aggression have never used forbidden weapons and forbidden ammunition. Of course, it takes time and money to remove this forbidden ammunition safely and safely. This is a weapon that, as the introduction said, leaves behind and, as noted by the distinguished representative Ćosic in the debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, no... only during armed conflicts, has lasting and dangerous consequences in subsequent times and is particularly exposed to children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we are aware that by signing or joining this Convention, the Republic of Croatia will not change the world, that it will not be immediately and will not apply to all countries but some generations in this Republic of Croatia will be able to say with pride that the Croats have previously recognized the value of this convention from the stronger and numerous G7 countries as you have apostropheeded them here. That's why I'm voting for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33060	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33061	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Well, here is the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on Casual Shooting, which certainly wants to prohibit the use, development, production, storage or transfer of caste ammunition and is prescribed for the same time limits that should regulate the destruction of this caste ammunition that must have happened to the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War, and as soon as the capital of the Republic of Croatia was actually hit after Operation "Blash". Therefore, the Republic of Croatia certainly has compassion for the victims that caused the causative ammunition, and therefore there is more reason to include and pass the law on this Convention, on banning the use of causative ammunition because, as we have heard, it has been polluted at three locations by the same sites that are still not all cleaned up today, which are still suffering today, but are sometimes suffering. We heard how many victims were through attacks on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and most of them are civilian victims who certainly have nothing to do with the war. I would like to say to this occasion that surely by adopting this law, Croatia will not significantly change, but it can influence, it can emphasize, it can attract all the countries that have not done so in order to be willing to do the same, bring this convention, act on it, and, within certain deadlines, solve the causative ammunition that inflicts heavy casualties and which are difficult to detect, clean, but certainly not in the spirit of war of what is and what should be. War as only always requires victims, but yet some basic criteria and postulates of warfare must be respected, so I believe that this law will also be in that spirit, although I believe that the great countries that are also in NATO, where Croatia is also, will also join with the same oscillations that this Convention is bearing, that they will certainly be and that will prohibit the use of caste ammunition, which will prohibit development, production, otherwise acquire, store, retain or transfer directly or indirectly categorically ammunition to anyone. I'm sure it won't help, encourage or induce anyone to any activity that is forbidden under this Convention by the State Parties to this Convention. I certainly believe that our country in the environment so far may be hostile in the Homeland War, that they will join the same convention so that at least there will be no danger in these territories, so that there will be no new victims. And what must certainly be stressed and remembered is that by the rocket system Orkan 262 mm, Zagreb is surely occupied and 176 people were killed in the very centre of the Republic of Croatia. So first of all, I would like to commend the adoption of this law of the Convention, support it, and be it for the purpose and purpose of prohibiting the use, development, production, storage, but also as stated in its articles, to help and to provide strict care and care for victims of such caustic ammunition. There's so much and thank you. I absolutely support the adoption of this convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33062	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33063	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the word I took to support this Law of Confirmation of the Convention on Casual Shooting, not just by voting by hand or by button, but by saying a few words. Unfortunately, most countries in the world possess causative weapons, and after this convention, some hundred or cca hundreds of countries will sign, but they will remain large like America, Russia, China that will certainly not do so in this part. But they don't always have to learn from the big ones, let the big ones learn from the little ones. We can remember the Homeland War when after Operation "Bleak" Serbia did so, the Serbian army did so in Zagreb, Okucani, Novi Gradiška and along the front line when innocent civilians, women and children died, i.e. the rest were mutilated and the question is how they make their living for bread today. And the same boomerang came back to them with a tape gun back in '99. the year NATO broke and today innocent civilians, women and children are killed there in Serbia, and are now asking NATO troops to give them a description of the same ammunition to try to neutralize it. The penalty ammunition leaves an indelible mark on the civilian population. Imagine when, in one war in Lebanon in 2006, hundreds of grenades were thrown out, a child was born in five years who had nothing to do with this war and knew nothing about this war and had no hand, no legs, and a lifetime had to care for it so that it could simply survive, as it happens in the Republic of Croatia, as it happens in all those areas that were affected by the war. So it certainly has no excuse and no case weapon can cause the loss of the people in the armed forces because the soldiers are more or less dressed. Soldiers, when the caste attacks go into trenches, hide and afterwards are trained to simply know and protect themselves, but only to die hundreds, to tens of thousands of civilians and children who certainly have no idea of it, are least guilty, and war should be a kind and gentlemen's relationship with a soldier, or one who started a war. And always in the war we have those who are the positives, who started the war, we have those who defend themselves, and those who started they don't choose the means, and then eventually, when they see that they're losing, they're holding back on their own. And here I fully support it, even though I know it won't solve the cascade ammunition problem. The great country, the strong forces, will hardly give it up, and even here I read that Russia does not give up, out of Russia's defence interest that it needs it. Surely it's not a weapon needed for the defence interest, but it's a weapon for me as a soldier for revenge only. Here I am, and I hope that most countries in the world will one day realize that we simply have great damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33064	Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33065	My colleague Biljić, I fully support your presentation except in one sentence where you said that some of the great learn from small ones. It certainly won't, but it's crucial what the secretary of state said. In this case, we have each other's stopper. These are NGOs which will certainly register a clear attitude and direction in which hundreds of countries are going and will then exert an additional pressure. I at least hope in America it's realistic to expect, in Russia, Kenya a little harder. But I guess the time will come for that pressure to feel and start thinking like you and me and the others in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33066	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33067	In the words of the word, I didn't think of a colleague as a small country, but I was thinking of these very associations that would put pressure on him. They are small today, but when you see the effect on the ground itself they will certainly be a great pressure on those countries to sign this convention too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33068	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33069	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Casual Shooting. It was an emergency procedure P.Z. No. 333. Proposer of the Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Casual Shooting. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of 99 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33070	We are going to the next item - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Administrative Council of the Railway Market Regulation Agency Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is the Proposing Government which has proposed a decision on the basis of Article 11. Law on the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Branimir Jerneic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33071	Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll be brief on the explanation of this point. We have before us a proposal for a decision to appoint a president and a member of the Management Board of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. Allow me a quick introduction. The Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets was founded on the basis of the Law on the same-named Agency with the aim of non-discriminatory access to rail infrastructure to all interested railway undertakings. The Agency is already registered as a public institution in the Register of Commercial Companies at the Commercial Court in Zagreb and in the provisions of Article 11. The Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services has been established that the Agency is managed by the Administrative Board, which has its President and two members, and that the appointment of members of the Governing Council and the President of the Agency has been established. This is what the Croatian Parliament is doing for a five-year term on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into The Agency Act provides for additional conditions to be met by candidates for the President of the Governing Council and members of the Governing Council. Due to the transparency of the procedure before the appointment decision was taken, a public call was made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the “National Journal” and daily press, and the Commission of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure conducted interviews with candidates who consisted of written and oral knowledge of matter, regulation of the market and the area of the Law on Railways. The following is proposed to the Government, and the Government proposes to the Croatian Assembly to appoint the President and members of the Administrative Council of the Railway Markets Regulatory Agency, Mr Goran Matesic, a graduate lawyer with 15 years of work experience for the President of the Administrative Council of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, as well as for members of the Administrative Council of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency Mr Nikola Popovic, Master Nikola Popovic, under the profession of the graduate lawyer, and Mr Zoran Ravlić, a graduate economist.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33072	Thank you. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33073	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me just say on behalf of the HDZ Club that we support this appointment, because there really isn't much to argue about. The Croatian Parliament is obliged to appoint the Agency's Administrative Board as proposed by the government. The procedure has been carried out. We have seen from these materials that two candidates for president have appeared in two attempts and five candidates for members of the Board of Directors. The Competition Committee found that one candidate met the requirements of the president, two candidates for members of the Council and proposed this to the government. The government has proposed to us, and these papers and résumés show that these candidates are competent to perform the proposed duty and therefore the HDZ club supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33074	Thank you. Representatives' club. No, an individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Would you like a closing word? You won't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33075	We move on to the proposal for a Decision appointing the President and members of the Management Board of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the Management Board of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal for a decision adopted by most votes, 95 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33076	Let's go to another point one. - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the so far and the appointment of part of the new members of the Electronic Media Council Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is the Proposer of the Government who proposed these decisions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Law on Electronic Media was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Nina Obulen will further explain the proposal. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, pursuant to Article 59 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Law on Electronic Media, members of the Electronic Media Council, appoints the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government at the time of 5 years, and can be re-appointed. In accordance with Article 59 of this Act, members of the Council may only be citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have expertise, skills and experience in the activities of radio or television, in publishing, cultural or similar activities. We would like to stress that the development of the electronic media market requires the Council for Electronic Media to extend the scope of its duties and powers beyond what it has now had, and this is particularly related to the new Law on concessions, i.e. the implementation of the concession procedure, and to the development of eligibility studies or the cost-effectiveness of concessions. Furthermore, the development of new technologies requires the need to give permission to perform the activities of audio and audiovisual media services on request, as well as for the satellite and internet and cable transmission of audiovisual and radio programmes by the Council. The decision of the Croatian Parliament of 30 April 2004 appointed members of the Council in time of five years: Jure Ivančić, Marko Marić and Milivo Pasiček, and their term of office expired on 30 April 2009. The following government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion on 26 February 2009 on the publication of a public call for the appointment of three members of the Electronic Media Council to whom 21 candidates appeared. In accordance with the prescribed procedure, the Government proposes to appoint the following three members to the Croatian Parliament: Damir Hajduk, a graduate economist with years of experience in Croatian broadcasting in Reuters, Profil International and B Net Croatia, Zdenko Ljevak, a graduate graphic engineer who is a long-standing publishing worker, but what must be emphasized is that he was also the President of the Council of the Community of Publishing and Bookshop of Croatia and also the president of the HRT programme council and for the third member of the Master of Ernest Strik, the graduate engineer of electronics and radio-telephony and professional electronics who worked on Croatian radio and participated in all major HRT programmes in the field of fixed and mobile communication and audio and video transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33078	Thank you. The Committee on Information, Information and Media? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33079	Dear Vice President, State Secretary and fellow MPs. Given that more or less everything here has been said by the secretary of state, there is no point in me repeating it too much, except perhaps to point out that the government issued a public invitation on March 6th to appoint three council members. Since their mandate has expired, in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media, we know that the Council for Electronic Media has seven members appointed by the Croatian Parliament. On a public call, as you have already heard, 21 candidates have applied from that the government has proposed to the Croatian Assembly of three candidates for whom you have heard in principle everything they say, and you have also contributed to the material. Finally, I can say that the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to resolve the three members so far and appoint the new three members of the Council for Electronic Media and proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33080	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Would you like some? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with debate Report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008. Points 12 and 13 are still on board tomorrow. The 11th is some coincidence, so we'll start with point 14. And then with 15, 16. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-03-0.u33081	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of parts of the so far and on the appointment of a part of the new members of the Electronic Media Council. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. First. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media so far. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This part of the motion for a decision was accepted by most votes, 98 votes for, 2 abstentions nothing against. Second. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a part of the new members of the Electronic Media Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal for appointing as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was adopted by 95 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 1 against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session, as announced with the agenda. - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008 by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities. The Advocate General delivered this report on the basis of Article 17. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. The government delivered an opinion. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee of the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Representative for the Proposer Ms Anka Slonjšak, Advocate for Persons with Disabilities. Here you go.
