ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. We are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. The reasons for the adoption of the final draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act are the negotiating position for Chapter 16 relating to taxes and the implementation of the measures provided for in the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union. What changes in the law in value added tax? It changes its own consumption in a way that so far the taxation of its own consumption related to representation and the use of means of transport has been quite complicated, is now simply simplified in such a way that there is no right to 70 % before the representation tax and 30 % of the pre-tax that remains in the same way only easier for taxpayers, for recording and keeping such records. Also in the delivery of goods so far, all the goods supplied under more favourable conditions have been taxed and are now introduced to the delivery of samples or gifts of less value up to 80 kuna provided that they are given occasionally and would not be taxed to the same persons. The place of taxation of services related to foreign entrepreneurs is one newspaper that so far has been taxed by domestic entrepreneurs towards the headquarters of entrepreneurs, service providers, this concerned telecommunications services, radio broadcasting and TV and access and transport and transport through natural gas distribution systems, electricity. Now it goes in a way that goes towards the seat, the residence of the taxpayer who received the service. Taxation of foreign entrepreneurs' services abroad is also being introduced. Those foreign taxpayers who have so far not had their headquarters, residence or business unit in Croatia if they perform any service must apply to the VAT system and... the number of tax administrations must have a tax representative and would therefore be taxed on their goods or services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The tax base on imports so far has been the customs value and from now on, the tax base on imports is included with customs specific taxes, taxes and all costs to the first place of destination in the Republic of Croatia. Delivery of dental substitutes, that's one change, so far it's been taxed with a zero rate, so it has the right to deduct the pre-tax and now it would be released. One big change, and this is a change for a special article, article 11 of the Law, which was signed as a taxation against institutional access, means according to an institution such as hospitals, banks, schools, colleges, kindergartens, nursing homes, they were now released and did not pay value added tax on all their services and now it changes, now it goes towards a type of service. So since the change of this universal law... Services would be freed, public radio subscription and TV what has been our problem so far, now with these amendments to the law they are exempt from paying value added tax but at the same time they do not have the right to return the pretax on entry accounts relating to that part, which refers to public radio and TV subscriptions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Postage stamps would also be released. So he was released and VAT on lottery games, gambling in casinos. The biggest change is in financial services and insurance services. So far, banks and insurance companies have been exempt from value added tax and now the services related to banking and insurance services have been released so that now the post which was doing part of the payment turnover is also FINA, which did part of the payment turnover for those services, would be exempt from value added tax. But both banks and insurance companies for all those services that are intended to be taxed would also be value added tax bonds. And there's one of these problems that's going to be for those organisations, but also for the tax administration, there's a division of the pretax, right to pretax, according to those services that are released and according to those services that would be taxable. Tax exemptions in imports, there comes under the conditions we have accepted, the exemption for imports of donated products and those paid from foreign money donations, receive religious, humanitarian institutions, state administration bodies, sports organisations and the like. Certain exemptions are also introduced in international transport, which are freed delivery, repair, maintenance and other services for open sea vessels and goods for the supply of those ships, such as repair, maintenance and chartering of aircraft flying in international lines, as fuel supplies and supplies of those aircraft. It is also introduced and returned to foreign entrepreneurs charged to them by domestic entrepreneurs for the purchase of goods and services that serve them to carry out their economic activities, but on one condition that this is a principle of reciprocity, so if our entrepreneurs are entitled to do so in those countries, then we are introducing ourselves for them. It is also a special procedure to tax the margin on used cars and art in order to pay only on the difference and commission to be charged. This law also provides for the introduction of an OIB, meaning a personal identification number that entrepreneurs would use as a tax number in their accounts. Here, Mr. Vice President, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36626	Thank you very much. The committees. Legislative? European integration? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36627	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 36th session held on 8 July 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, as a parent body. The Committee held the opinion that the provision of Article 26(6) of the final proposal of the law was discriminatory and this was expressed by a representative of the Banks' Association, saying that it stipulates that taxpayers who will start carrying out taxing services, which will also be banks, cannot correct a pre-tax for economic goods obtained before the entry into force of this law, i.e. that they cannot seek the return of VAT contained in the entry invoices for buildings which have been possible for 10 years, but also for other basic means which have been able to correct 5 years. The board also won the debate and amendments to the Croatian Chamber of crafts and Croatian dental chamber, and the Croatian Chamber of crafts proposed an increase of VAT entry thresholds from 85 thousand to 200 thousand kuna. As it is known that there are already 5,000 euros in the European Union of borders for entering the VAT system, the debate unanimously supports the opinion that these amendments should not be accepted by either the Croatian Chamber of crafts or the Chamber of Dentology, as well as this observation by the representatives of the Banks' Association. In addition, two new amendments have been proposed in the debate, in accordance with Article 18 of the final proposal for a law proposing the addition of a new paragraph 12, in a way that does not allow for the deduction of the pre-tax for the purchase of passenger cars and other means of transport, which refers to the amount of more than 400,000 kuna for the purchase value per asset. And the amendment to Article 21 of the final proposal for a law proposing the removal of possible misunderstandings regarding obligations, accounting, payment of value added tax on own consumption for private cars and other means of transport whose purchase value is greater than 400,000 kuna. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, together with the following amendments. Amendment 1, Article 18 of the final draft of the law, in the new paragraph 12 at the end of the text, adds the words "no deduction of the pre-tax for the purchase of passenger cars and other means of personal transport relating to the amount of more than 400 thousand kuna of purchase value per asset is allowed." The proposed amendment removes any ambiguities and maintains the same scope of law as before the amendment and addition of the law to added value, but provides for a complete limitation of the right to deduct the pre-tax on passenger cars and other means of personal transport for an amount exceeding 400 thousand kuna of purchase value. Amendment 2, Article 26(1) of the final draft of the law, reads: "The taxpayers who made personal cars and other means of transport of entrepreneurs, management, management and other employees obtained by 31 December 2009 and used the right to deduct pretaxes, and charged and paid a value added tax at 30% above the cost of depreciation of up to 400 thousand kunas of purchase value of those assets, i.e. 100% of the cost of depreciation for the amount exceeding 400 thousand kunas of purchase value, are obliged to continue to charge and pay value added tax at 30% and 100% of the cost of depreciation up to the expiry of the depreciation period, i.e. the moment of sale, donation, alienation, otherwise or destruction of those funds." This amendment was crystallised as necessary in view of the transitional provisions in Article 26(1), it is prescribed that taxpayers who had the right to deduct pre-tax and charged value added tax on their own consumption at 30% of depreciation costs are required to continue to account and to pay value added tax on their own consumption at 30% above the depreciation cost until the expiry of the depreciation or other event mentioned above, it is necessary to clarify, in order to remove the uncertainty, that the obligation, the relationship and the payment of value added tax on passenger cars and other means of transport whose purchase value was greater than 400 thousand kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36628	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36629	The VAT law went into effect in '98. He has experienced several changes, changes, additions to some important changes, even more important than these today. The ones we have today are more consistent and... with the legal acquis of the European Union, unlike the ones so far when the changes concerned the extension of the tax exemption cycle, the introduction of zero rates for taxing certain goods and services such as bread, milk, medicines, books, scientific journals, orthopaedic aids, etc., as well as the services of organised foreign tourists in our country, which in 2006 replaced the rate of 10% for accommodation services with breakfast, half board or full pension as well as for the agency commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then a 10% rate was introduced on newspapers and magazines, both daily and periodical. The proposal for these amendments shall fulfil the obligations set out in the negotiating position for Chapter 16. – taxes, but also obligations under the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union for 2009. At the same time as these amendments and additions, further harmonisation of the VAT Act with the acquis of the European Union will be carried out. Of these most important changes, it is important to highlight changes in their own consumption, as these changes and additions simplify the taxation of their own consumption. But it remains the same tax burden as it was. According to the current provisions, 30 % of the costs of means of transport and 70 % of the costs of depreciation are taxed, and it is proposed not to tax 30% of the costs of means of transport, or 70 % of the costs of depreciation, but to limit immediately the right to deduct the pre-tax. This is indeed a technically excellent solution that simplifies a lot, and essentially nothing changes. But speaking of technical solutions, I would also draw attention to some technical details that burden both entrepreneurs and the economy with perhaps sometimes unnecessary documentation, for example, although this is not covered, but should also consider the need, for example, to write an account for the team with whom they ate and drank, names and last names. This really doesn't work anywhere in the world anymore, so there's no need for them to spend in Croatia at that time and therefore possibly pay and fines and file criminal charges. As regards the delivery of goods under the applicable provisions, the delivery of goods is taxed to anyone without compensation and under favourable conditions, and it is proposed not to tax the delivery of samples and gifts of small value up to 80 kn. This is said to be on condition that it does not seem often, or that it is occasionally and that it is not the same person. I think this definition has a little flexible interpretation. Too much freedom is left, which is occasionally, and how many times this is to the same people often. In the case of samples, it is quite difficult to determine whether something has been delivered too often without a VAT account or not. There is also a change in taxation towards the headquarters of the recipient of services in order not to result in double taxation, i.e. non-taxation, so that both telecommunications services and broadcasting of radio and TV, gas and electricity distribution will be taxed with this proposal where the head office, residence or the usual residence of the taxpayer is the recipient of the service. So far, the collection of VAT from foreign entrepreneurs carrying out the delivery of goods and services has not been prescribed. However, this proposal provides for amendments and additions to the obligation for foreign entrepreneurs not established in the Republic of Croatia, residence or establishment to register for VAT purposes. This proposal also changes the tax base on imports. Currently, the basic customs value of goods in imports has been increased for customs, tax and special taxes, and now all costs to the first place of destination in Croatia are now added, of course, which increases, this change will not increase the total costs and burden. But it will certainly affect the liquidity of entrepreneurs. Because VAT which will be paid additionally for the cost of packing from customs to the first place of destination in Croatia will still be able to refuse the VAT later on and return the VAT. For changes in terms of supplies not in the VAT system and not subject to VAT deduction, the current provision has so far been for institutional access to VAT taxation, and the new provisions extend the list of deliveries that are not subject to VAT, including universal to postal services, supply of human blood, organs, mother's milk, dental and technical and dental substitutes, service of the staff of religious institutions, service of non-profit organisations to global patriotic and charity objectives, etc. The list of deliveries not subject to VAT shall also be extended to services of the transport of sick and injured persons, public radio subscription and TV, postage stamps, lottery and the like. These proposed amendments also extend the list of products of value added tax on imports, but also introduces a specific process of taxation of margins in used goods of art, collections and antiquities. So far, the VAT issue has not been regulated on the margin. Amendments are also proposed for tax exemptions in international transport, as well as for the return of taxes to foreign entrepreneurs. According to the current provisions, the return was granted to foreign entrepreneurs and still approved, those participating in fairs in the Republic of Croatia for specific costs related to participation in fairs. According to new provisions, according to this proposal, the return of taxes to foreign entrepreneurs who were charged to them by domestic suppliers for the purchase of goods and services, which serve to carry out their economic activity, is achieved on the principle of reciprocity. The HDZ Club also supports the adoption of this proposal to amend and supplement the law and supports the views of the Committee on Finance and Budget with two proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36630	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, respected representatives of the IRS, colleagues and colleagues. We all know that the value added tax is one of the simplest and cheapest taxes and is best adapted to the needs. The national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union for 2009 set a deadline of June 2009 for the harmonisation of the Law on Value Added Tax with the acquis of the European Union in the field of taxation of additional value, which is to be commended by the tax administration, which is otherwise rare when it comes to the Ministry of Finance to stick to deadlines, and in particular to discuss and to change what we need to change, and in particular by accepting the overall economic moment in which the state is present or presently. Only the adoption of the proposed law will bring institutional and functional harmonisation into line with the obligation to pay an additional value, the obligations of the negotiating position for Chapter 16, taxes and obligations of the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2009. In addition to what counterpart Maric said, just to list some of the changes. The activity of public interest will be exempt from paying additional value taxes under the prescribed conditions, there are no exemptions from paying additional value taxes in importing and exporting goods, the return of taxes to foreign entrepreneurs limited under the applicable law to foreign, commercial and participating fairs in the Republic of Croatia is in line with the regulation of the right to return paid value added tax charged to them by foreign entrepreneurs for the purchase of goods and services for... the purpose, subject to the conditions laid down, of reciprocity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The adoption of the proposed law will then be brought into line with the exemption from the taxation prescribed by the current VAT law without the right to deduct the pre-tax in such a way that those exemptions will apply regardless of who delivers certain goods and services, insurance and reinsurance companies or intermediaries and insurance agents, banks, savings banks or commercial companies. Furthermore, the proposed amendment of the Value Added Tax Act will also align the place of taxation of the provision of telecommunications services, services provided by electronic means, broadcasting services of radio-television and access to transport services or contributions through a gas and electricity distribution system in a foreign transaction to avoid non-taxation, or double taxation of those services. And I fully join the comment of my colleague Marić, which is that in everyday practice of implementing tax laws, all tax laws, above all I think of tax administration workers as a matter of fact that there is a need to minimise the presence of direct administration, but surely that from the position of entrepreneurs is questionable and often conflicting and so on. Free interpretation of certain tax obligations and I think that this is something that should be more clearly defined in front of us, whether through regulations, whether through education, but in any case unequivocally to taxpayers, I repeat, first of all, I mean entrepreneurs, to give the economy the opportunity to consume their rights on the basis of very clear criteria. And it's all right, but I have to go back to one topic that is very important to us, which is defined by this VAT law, which is the fact that in the 2009 budget, we planned to charge VAT and excise duties somewhere over 44 billion kuna, that we planned, which is carrying almost 1/3 of the state budget then planned, and that we were already at that time in the adoption of the 2009 budget, given the overall situation in the economy, given all the difficulties that we have had for a long time, but this global financial crisis has been exposed, that simply this desire is unbreakable. The fact that the charge of the budget based on VAT and excise duties that are normally the main chargers of the budget, the fact that these planned revenues are not charged in planned sizes and we have already warned, we at the Croatian People's Party club have already warned and once again we have warned that Croatia has been living too long above its opportunities, spending more than we earn, these accounts are now coming to our charge, and on the condition of this global recession we have gathered more and more. We currently have a budget minus for cca 5 to 10 billion, very likely and more, the exact data only has the Ministry of Finance. And the fact that until November last year, it didn't present a single monthly report on budget filling, so we practically don't have any real information. The fact that in this time of day, an anti-recession measure that has been passed is the fact that the budget rebalance we have already said and when it has been passed, that it is not realistic given the reality and certainness of income, the fact that we have covered a hole in the budget recently with 750 billion euros of bond sales that will cost us total by 2015 billion euros, which is then said to the public as one of the great successes of government policy. And in this time, and in two days' time we should win, tomorrow the government should adopt a new budget rebalance. The big question is, what are we going to get with this budget rebalance? What are we going to do, what are we going to get with this real budget? Our common desire, and the fact is that it should be sharp within possible and our common desire is to be and we at the club of the Croatian People's Party are looking to be realistic, not cosmetical, not with some kind of delay planned. The economic profession also warns, it warned both fully justified and governor of the National Bank. However, there is the question of whether the government has the power, has the wisdom, has the determination to do so? Normally, the biggest responsibility is to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Is she in any condition with her assistants, I mean the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, is she able to make out this hot potato digestible potato salad? Will that salad be less salty, more salty, less acidic, more acidic? But the key is, will she be indigestionable? I doubt that personally. For a few reasons. Public health, speaking of VAT, is the vice-president of the government responsible for the economy. So a key person who defines guidelines, which defines the conditions for creating opportunities in our economy, conditions for creating a new value, and one of the new values we can expect something or we can look for something, we can spend something. His statement, which I quote, I think we need to think long-term about changing the VAT to more and I know it's not nice and pleasant exactly. That's right. But what message is that? The increase in VAT is definitely one solution, it is quite certain a solution that gives the possibility to take care of state finances. Or to whose harm? The increase in VAT would result in a direct blow to the purchasing power of the citizens of this country, to the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, or to the more precise introduction of an increased VAT on the consequence of this has a direct withdrawal of kuna from the pockets of consumers, and on the other hand, to feed a bulky and inefficient state, state apparatus and above all similar. Experience teaches us, and I won't say anything new, that the state apparatus always spends all the money collected and the question is whether the quality of the public sector is going to increase because of the extra collected money, and whether we are ready to make cuts there and whether we have the willingness to create conditions for the balance of state finances. We at the Croatian People's Party Club once again warn that a balanced budget rebalancing is necessary to look on the spending side and not cosmetically, not with some delay, but immediately essential, substantive and appropriate reality and situation in which we are brought about by the inaction in the time behind us. If the state has to increase tax revenues, it can freely increase customs duties on imports of goods, especially those goods that destroy the potential and potential of our production. There are possibilities, even a legal basis. It can increase specific taxes on imported motor vehicles and other luxury goods, it can increase taxes on alcohol, coffee, tobacco processing, and it can certainly increase taxes on capital income, which has already been mentioned many times, and increase taxes on income from wealthy citizens, but in no way in the heat of the recession should not increase VAT. Given the overall state of public finances, the forthcoming rebalancing we will soon discuss in this House on Monday, I am once again warning our certain reality that we must think about, which is an international monetary fund. It's very simple. If we staff ourselves to carry out fiscal consolidation, which is entirely justified for us at the Croatian People's Party club, then we don't need the fund. But if we don't spend it, we'll have to, and it would be good to call the fund as soon as possible if he did what we don't have the willingness, the ability, or we have the burden of pre-election promises that now fully justify us... We will also have opportunities to discuss these topics on Monday, during a discussion on budget rebalancing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, we at the Croatian People's Party club support amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36632	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36633	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, what Mr. Koračević was talking about today is Croatia in front of the shipwreck. The captain left that ship, and we'll see how the debate will take place during the first and most likely near and second rebalancing. I also believe that we need a VAT audit. In '96, although VAT went into effect in '98. The IDS proposed introducing differentiated VAT rates. So at a general rate of 22% that we have a tourist rate of 11% and a social rate of 5% for food, children's supplies, newspapers etc., etc. Probably, we'll have to redefine this entire tax system soon, and we'll probably also have to raise the VAT from 22 to 23, maybe even 24%. It's likely that zero VAT rates will be abolished soon, but if that happens, and it will happen for sure, then we should also introduce a 10% to 12% rate to food, to books, to newspapers even though newspaper publishers, today I'm reading, demand that they shrink to 0%. This one step should normally be introduced for children's needs, etc., and all with the aim of preserving the standard at the current level, so that they can re-access by the end of the year maybe one billion kuna, and next year between two, three billion kunas. Clearly, when it comes to VAT, the burden is always transferred to that final buyer. However, it is also clear that the VAT burden must be submitted in advance by employers mainly on imports and should therefore be extended to VAT payments from the current 30 days to 60 days, and in particular it should be corrected by legal provisions where entrepreneurs pay together with customs duties on imports of VAT goods within 8 days. Earlier in 30 days, the law has now been in force for a year which obliges them to pay the VAT within 8 days, which is almost impossible for many. We all agree that VAT is the highest tax, so cca 40 billion kuna, that was one planned size for 2009. The VAT is currently charged at least 15% lower, but last year. It means at the end of the year to be five, six maybe more billions of kunas less on that basis alone. So sooner or later someone wants to admit it to themselves or not, there will be a correction of the VAT rate, or otherwise property taxes will be introduced, meaning our apartments, etc. that is to interest which will further normally raise interest rates to the economy, citizens and, in fact, freeze any activity in this country. Why is spending in the Republic of Croatia falling, which should somehow be triggered? How do you run that consumption? Without spending, nothing will work. So he tries to restore his faith to the citizens, but we can see that this government, it couldn't be the former, it won't be the present. I think the unions should also play their part here, leave in their time that shamefully humiliating, offensive, anti-constitutional agreement with the government, let's say about banning protests on the market here across the street from St. Marka, who was personally signed by Mrs. Knezevic who, on the other hand, did not participate in those big demonstrations in '98. But at least we in the IDS will very much support it if the intentions are to the unions, and I want to believe that they are honorable, honest, and that they are radical enough right now. Why am I saying that? Because responsibility at this point is normal, first of all, in the government, as well as in employers, first of all I think of those who took part in the transformation, who came from nothing to anything in this country. I don't normally think of those small employers or middle or large ones who have come to something by their work, or who have acquired it by their work. Today, the situation in the country is that employers could have these small craftsmen, craftsmen, etc. Even worse position than the workers who work with them. The same responsibility is traditional Croatian silence with our trade unions. Why are they silent? So because the public sector employers can be arranged, for example. More than 100 management contracts have union activists in the Croatian Railways. It is clear responsibility for this situation is largely and on the mentality of our citizens, nothing will clear from the state we ask, but nothing on the other hand in our midst will etc. What should I offer? First we have to keep the wages, save the pensions. We need to reach a consensus there in some way, but we also need to reach a consensus on tax policy and therefore also on VAT. We need to save clearly, what we heard earlier from Mr. Korakevic. It should also work, in some ways it may sound Marxistic, restore the dignity of work, start working, attract investment, deal with crime, it is probably the number one priority, re industrialize Croatia. It is a shame that in the gross social product, industry is the second branch only in Istria County nowhere around Croatia is trade everywhere, should be decentralised Croatia, it should be kept as a pupil of its eye, should be suspended these large investments that do not bring immediate benefits, consumption should be stimulated, budget rebalancing together and see what happens next 2010. But it's primarily clear to introduce a fight against corruption and try this one to call it, a socialist fighting way of thinking. We won't work, but we have to have everything. And on the other hand, we all know that the hardest thing to do is make money, it's the hardest thing to get to work and charge for it. Many who are in trouble are not responsible because they have done their best but what if for a year or two they are not paid for it, so there is nothing left for them but to cry. And anyone who calls it the same should not know for two, three months run a business to see what it looks like. What I'm also trying to say is that the market is an alpha and an omega of VAT. Mr. Stepaveć was talking about raising VAT on cars. Car sales in the fifth month of this year are down 66% compared to last year. There was even a drop in alcohol of 36.9%, fuel consumption dropped in the 5th month compared to 5 last year 20.7%, which will say that less driving, less running, supermarkets achieved a turnover of 17.5% less than last year. What increases bread consumption 19.6% of clear bread is poor food, something to live on and survive from. Tobacco plus 10.4%. Why don't we just, like, catch an extra profit from the tobacco industry. Trades recorded a drop in May 19.3% compared to May 2008 etc. If that is the case, if something radical doesn't change, and it probably won't during the season, the deficit will certainly be those mentioned 14, maybe 15, 16, 17 billion kunas. I said during the budget rebalancing that it could amount to as much as 20 billion kuna based on the decline of gross social product in the Republic of Croatia. At this point, we really have to give hope to people, we have to try in some way to stimulate this consumption because it depends largely on what happens in 2010. Gross social product, it's going to fall far below 5% but it's going to fall in 2010. It's no problem, I would dare even say so much in 2009, our problem will be 2010. In 2009, we can make something clear about how the loans that will need one day will be returned but what will happen in 2010. Croatia must extend the payment ino of debt, must call the IMF, will have to raise VAT or to preserve that social, pay, pension, from 14 billion to 16 billion kuna deficits, Mr. Shucker can reach $12.5 billion at the moment. So he can serve about 12 billion to 13 billion kuna. Why? Because I can't give him any more money or ours or foreign banks. The peace funds at this point can give him 2 billion kuna, domestic banks a billion, certainly not 2 billion kuna. Profumo UniCredit to the owner of Zagrebačka banka, Pasera boss "Intese" who owns the Privredna banka etc., there can be up to 7 billion kuna. The bonds on the international money market, there we will be able to get about 3 to 4 billion kuna, and that's about 12 to 13 billion kuna, and according to Mr. Rohatinski, we need 42 billion kuna at this point. So, with what we can get another nearly thirty billion kuna. And what's going to happen is, what I'm afraid this second pension column is going to be due to, among other things, illogicality because the new pensioners have less salaries than the old ones are kind of being transferred to that first pension column, but if that happens tomorrow, who's going to finance the country with 2-3 billion kunas a year, etc. What might be the essence of this law Mr. Maric spoke about outside the HDZ club even though he said he would support the law is an additional restriction for domestic entities. First of all, I'm talking about importers here. I think that this law is an additional blow to domestic entities because VAT will be paid not only on those invoiced goods abroad, normally customs are also going to go on, but it will also be paid at all costs, such as shipping, storage, transport, supply of goods, etc. I personally believe that this is unacceptable, this country lives in some way unfortunately on imports when we do not have our own industries and that this will further contribute to job losses. So, we sort of transfer the burden from foreign legal entities by this law to domestic legal entities, for me it's inadmissible as it is unacceptable for VAT, for example, to be paid on import within 8 days. The large entities of Todorovic, these, those countries certainly come out to meet but the small commitment must be fulfilled within 8 days which becomes more difficult and difficult every day and will soon become an impossible mission. I know how much money the government needs at this point, but the business burden is too high for domestic companies anyway, and it needs to be reduced. Therefore, the measure of all VAT measures is to extend the payment period from 30 days to 60 days and to imports from 8 days to at least 30 days as it was or 60 days. When importing you know you have to pay everything in advance and cash whether you buy goods in Italy, Germany, what I know where and it's extremely difficult. All in all means except for this detail other provisions would gladly accept the IDS club but I think it will further contribute to the additional blocking of our business entities, especially those small ones, for which tax administrations should have some understanding and ultimately this will result in weaker filling of the state budget and losing their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36634	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36635	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, there are a few things to be said. It should be said that this law, along with all the items that are aligned and which we, of course, support, will also mean this year, because of the way in which this law is being calculated, that we will also have less money because of our harmonisation with the European Union in the state budget. That's one thing. So, because of European harmonisation, we're going to have a little less money in the state budget. However, if you look at the tables behind and the provisions in which the law is in conformity or does not comply with the European Union directives, you will realize that once again by the end of the year we will have to align the same law on value added tax. And the question arises, in fact, why do we have three or four amendments to the law and we can't do it at once, and that's the problem that we opened when there was last week and the Insurance Act when we made the same law three times under the same explanation for compliance with the European Union. This process and this way of solving things is not systematic and it pours mistrust into the legislative system. What I have to say and when we talk about the European Commission directives that should be observed here and which will be applied in this law and in the next law that will be amended once more by the end of the year, we should say that we love to accept European directives when we bring legislation into line but we do not accept European guidelines when it comes to protecting citizens. So the question arises why, for example, we did not adopt European guidelines on the inter-dumb of VAT which Europe is about to become to protect its citizens to become all European countries. We have proposed that this rate be 10% in order to enable Croatian citizens to cope more easily with the crisis in these times of crisis. And when the European Commission or the European Union proposes such changes, they are certainly justified and have a foothold. Why? Because in the crisis and as planned by the European Commission, which is called the European Commission Recovery Plan, the aim is to encourage two things. The development of the economy and protection of the most sensitive part of the population. Without these two components, there is no long-term sustainable strategy. What I still have to say is that definitely also in the light of all economic developments and the growing indifferences that are rising by some estimates above 17 billion. In this country, no one pays anyone and not just because business morality is high, but because the state did not find it appropriate to edit this system through a very simple payment register. Through a very simple payment register, but that would mean that the state should settle its obligations as soon as possible. And we have, according to this and sent exactly two proposals as opposition clubs that the state is not ordering what it is not so far, means that it does not order a new one unless it has settled its obligations, that is, to settle all obligations related to those items that are not paid in such a way that it generates liquidity in the Croatian economy. And therefore, if there is already a prolongation of the payment of commitments made both by the state and by the large economic operators who are in a kind of silent manner, then there is no reason why this may not be extended and what the predecessors before me have talked about and the payment of VAT alone, because the entrepreneur is in a situation that has to pay VAT immediately and this represents a cost to him. And just because he has to pay the VAT right away, maybe he doesn't have that month's payout, and that's a serious thing. Finally, I have something else to say and it's about possible announcements and statements, as well as leading people in the Croatian government for the possible raise of VAT. No one serious and anyone who understands the economy can talk about raising VAT, as a solution, even if those statements came from the minister himself because it is a short-term effect. It's as if you have a credit card and you go into one-time debt on that credit card and you have nothing to repay that debt with. It's an effect if you don't know where to strategically direct tax money, from increasing any taxes, then it's better that you don't work. Why? Because the increase in tax and in particular value added tax leads to an inflationary spiral, leads to increasing prices, leads to less protection of Croatian citizens and leads to the risk of non-payment of salaries to Croatian citizens. And if there is no vision of how to direct the surplus tax revenues strategically for the rescue of the Croatian economy above all, then making statements about the increase in VAT is extremely irresponsible and irresponsible. And here, in that sense, we, as a SDP club, don't want to hear about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36636	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36637	Thank you very much. A colleague Bernardic told no one in Croatia to pay anyone. That quote is not correct. There are honest people in Croatia, there are honest entrepreneurs in Croatia who pay their obligations in orderly both to entrepreneurs and to the state. They even raise their loans because they cannot collect their claims to be responsible for society and their business partners. But the biggest ones, 10 or 15, behave so arrogantly, so rudely, so blackmailingly that they publicly say they lower prices and pay deadlines from 60 days to 275 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36638	Mr. Representative Davor Huška here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax with the Final Proposal of the Law. It is also clear from the reasons that the adoption of this law will fulfil the obligations of the negotiating position for Chapter 16 of the tax, and the obligations under the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union for 2009, and further harmonisation of the law on value added tax with the acquis of the European Union will be carried out. In accordance with the abovementioned value added tax conditions, activities of public interest will be exempt. The prescribed set of tax exemptions for value added tax on imports and exports of goods is also regulated by the return of taxes to foreign entrepreneurs, the adoption of the law will harmonize the tax exemption prescribed by the applicable Value Added Tax Act. It also coordinates the place of taxation of the provision of telecommunications services. It is simplified to make these amendments to the law and to tax the business's own consumption through representation and personal transport, the costs of personal transportation. And I believe that the tax administration will continue to take care of the accuracy of showing these costs and releases. However, I think that, with regard to the costs and exemptions of the personal transportation tax team, special attention should be paid to the use of the basic assets of individual entrepreneurs, companies for which they are used before tax and basic assets are used to a significant extent for personal purposes. I would like to point out some more of this here, because we are talking about the level of tax traffic achieved in the previous year of 85,000 kuna where the possibility of natural and legal persons based abroad or the Republic of Croatia not to enter the VAT system is given. It may be necessary to consider increasing this amount in future periods of small entrepreneurs who achieve a positive turnover of up to 100 thousand kuna, there is plenty. And I believe this increase from 85 thousand to 100 thousand kuna would certainly allow them to do a simpler business. Furthermore, Article 14 on the abolition of the exemption for imports of donated goods or imports of goods paid from foreign cash donations is said. However, there is a proposal for the release on imports of free goods obtained to meet the basic human needs if this good free child to endangered persons as well as the import of goods to meet the basic needs of life to help victims of disaster when imported by state or other registered humanitarian and charity organisations and institutions. The exemption shall be proposed for imports of equipment sent free of charge to those organisations to meet their operational needs and humanitarian objectives. I think that here we should continue to keep the possibility of releasing VAT payments for donations coming to the Republic of Croatia in areas of special state care, but these are literally areas where war destruction occurred, the loss of material, human. And there are still good people from Europe and the world who are willing to make different donations both in material goods, in different equipment, and in money exactly in this war the injured areas of our country, so please keep the possibility of these areas still being freed from VAT. After all, I think this is a good law. Of course, we are not pleased to see a reduction in the revenues of the state budget of 32 and a half million kuna, but this is the price of certain reliefs for entrepreneurs in the territory of the Republic of Croatia through changes to the Income Tax Act. Of course, I support the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36640	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ivica Mladneo. Here you go. Was it a replica? Okay. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36641	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Huška, I didn't mean to answer, but you noticed a great detail in the business of Croatian entrepreneurs when you said that very often there is a use of property owned by a company for private purposes. I am, indeed, drawing attention and publicly to this problem and it is not unknown that many major companies use cars for private purposes, even those who are not employed in companies, from 0 to 24 trains. That houses and holiday homes are exclusively used for private purposes, for life, and also used in pre-taxes and maintenance costs and investment costs, all on the burden of society. To yachts and yachts of millions of values, but in euro, exclusively use for private purposes and neatly all costs are paid by companies, and maintenance and procurement and pretax and driving and business partners and friends and relatives. That even hotels are used as a place of residence, and are owned by companies. It is something to draw attention to and something that should go into these great ones because only one wrong way of amortizing affects hugely the profit shown and thus the tax on displayed profits. But really let these go, does it matter who he's having lunch with, who the business partner is with who's on the business partner? If this does not affect the level of tax, does not affect tax collection, it can only be used for industrial espionage, and that is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36642	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36643	Just like that, I didn't mean small entrepreneurs, the minimum costs of the team being created because it doesn't really affect the large amount of VAT, the losses of the country that happen precisely for the reasons that you listed in these mega entrepreneurs who have large assets, cottages, yachts, large cars that are mainly used for private purposes. I think if more attention were paid here, that this 32 million who loses the state budget by passing this law would make it very easy and quick to make up for in the state budget. And small entrepreneurs who have personal cars, tractors, construction machines can't do much damage and use that equipment, that property for private purposes. It is about mega entrepreneurs and they need to be paid attention by the tax administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36644	Thank you. And final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank Mr Bernardic for the debate and for his answer to Mr Bernardic's esteemed representative. I hope, however, I wish we had to go to the end of the year to amend the VAT law. This means that the negotiations would be over and that we would then go with a final law that would be applied by accession to the European Union. So, a new amendment, the new law comes after the conclusion of negotiations and negotiating positions that would be incorporated into a special law. I would answer to the esteemed representative, Maric, that there is one newspaper, the introduction of this General Tax Code. We are still starting with these targeted supervisions in which we will be able to control both the use and the yachts and the cars and all of this that is non-business, so we will be able to carry out small targeted surveillance, which will help to bring order into the tax administration and also in the economy. They have special departments that were founded in large stations, so fast and targeted surveillance. Finally, we have amendments to the Committee on Law and Finance that the Government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36646	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 110 votes for and 1 abstention, the proposed law in the text has been passed as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36649	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Final proposal of the law on gambling. What do we do with this law? The system, species, conditions of play-making, rules and procedures of acquisition, withdrawal of the right to play, the rights and obligations of the game-makers, the way in which the game-to-luck income is distributed, the control of game-to-happiness. The reasons why we are adopting this law, which is the implementation of the measure of the Republic of Croatia's accession programme in 2009 in which we must install provisions relating to the prevention and laundering of money and the financing of terrorism. The commitment stems from the Action Plan to fight money laundering and terrorist financing, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 31 January 2008. The reason is also the improvement of the gambling system and the effective collection of these funds, as well as the specific recommendations of the HItroREZ unit. What's changing, what's the major change in gambling? The most important changes are the introduction of new gambling fees and the modification of the basis for the accounting of existing fees. The VAT is abolished on lottery games, taxed, taxes are imposed on winnings and gambling, lottery bettings, the possibility of throwing gambling through the Internet, telephones, direct merger with the Ministry of Finance into the information system. So, more control, more detailed regulation of the tender procedure, as well as changes to the basis for determining the level of bank guarantees. What changes in individual games at lottery games? A monthly fee for hosting lottery games is being introduced at 10%. So far, there has been no obligation to pay taxes. The tax on profits is now being introduced and this is projected to be a 15% tax on profits from 40,000 to million kuna, and over a million kunas are projected to be 20%. And there's also the possibility of betting on the Internet, which so far has not been. In games to bet the monthly fee on the total payment of 5% remains. Tax on profits at the same amount is also introduced. So 15% of the winnings from 40,000 to million kuna and 20% of the winnings from over a million kuna, and the editor is obliged to charge and pay that tax. The annual fee was not prescribed. Now a million kunas are prescribed per editor, and if it goes through the Internet, then 3 million kunas. The possibility of betting via the Internet is also being introduced. The core capital that has so far been foreseen in the amount of 3 million is increased to 4 million kuna, and the guarantee of a bank that has been from 5 million to 12 million kuna so far would increase depending on the number of payment places, up to 200 million turnover would be 5 million, and over that 15 million kuna. In games of chance in automatic clubs, monthly fees which would be the difference between payments and the payout of players would remain the same 25%. The annual fee has so far been 300,000 kuna per automatic club. Now there's been a change, now it's being paid to the automatics, and it's 10000 kuna per machine, and 50,000 kuna per roulette. The guarantee of the bank depends on the number of automatic clubs so far was 200000 for each autoclub, and now depends on the automatic clubs, but also on the number of automatics. The core capital with a million kuna is increasing to 2,000 kuna and is also introducing an online connection obligation with the Ministry of Finance. For gambling in casinos, monthly fees would remain the same as 15% would only be the difference now that you can beat up the results within different types of games at the end of the month. The tournaments of those we had in casinos like those poker players. It is now foreseen, so far it has not been so that 25% would be paid for the participation that players would pay to play. The possibility of betting via the Internet is also being introduced. Also connecting on-line with the IRS information system. Also introduced is the obligation to pay an annual fee of 500,000 per casino, and if there is an Internet cassion then 3 million. The bank's guarantee goes up from a million and 200 million to a million and 500, and if possible via the Internet, it's 3 million kuna. Also, when giving the right to play games through a public tender so far it has not been prescribed, and now it is required to provide information on the real owner of the editor. It shall also be prescribed to provide evidence of the underlying capital and the origin of the funds to cover the underlying capital and to extend the number of persons subject to the obligation to supply evidence that they are not subject to criminal proceedings. For prize games, fees were 5% to the Red Cross, the basis and value of the prize fund, this law foresees the same meaning. There's no change in that. It is also specially regulated prize games through electronic media. That's what we had on TV when some people lost a lot of money on phone calls. It is now foreseen to regulate the price of that SMS message or that phone call that has so far been much bigger than those normal calls and is now regulated by this law and these games. The difference envisioned by these changes is projected to be around 130 million more revenue compared to the ones so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36650	Thank you. Legislative committees, European integration? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36651	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the 36th session held on 8 July 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on gambling with the Final Bill and as a home working body. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament said in its debate after the government's opening statement that the proposed law should be adopted by emergency procedure. He accepted the government's proposal, and the debate supported the introduction of taxation on the winnings of lottery games. But it has been pointed out that it would be fairer to reduce the untaxable base from the proposed 40,000 to 30,000 kuna. Also, there would be a fairer reduction of the base from a million kuna to 500 thousand kuna which is subject to 15%, with a rate of 20% not above a million kuna, but over 500 thousand kuna. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to adopt the Law on Happiness together with the next amendment. Article 18 paragraph 3 is amended as follows: the profit tax is paid at a rate of 15% on profits of more than 30 thousand kuna to 500 thousand kuna, and at a rate of 20% on profits above 500 thousand kuna. The proposed amendment aims to better regulate the payment of taxes on winnings from lottery games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36652	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36653	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Last time, and that was 2001 when we discussed this law. That's when we talked about the law in front of IDS and Mr. Dino Fattyuh and I. Then we were consulting with some casino owners and some logical solutions were even accepted. However, this time the man failed to consult with anyone because the law, if I am not mistaken, was won on Wednesday or Tuesday, and today is the debate. But let's let it go now, I don't care much about those casinos anyway. I know how to pay off a lottery ticket here and there, and that's all. But speaking now in mind, improvising, a man can blink, but he can make a mistake. However, the IDS club will also support this law, and we trust these conditions proposed by this promoter. What they want, what they need to do, absolutely betting on the Internet should be regulated, it should be welcomed, it should be networked with the ministry and not listed any further. What is the point of this law, here on page 8, it is said that implementation of the proposed law does not require the allocation of specific funds to the burden of the state budget. Clearly, some funds will need to be allocated, but its application creates conditions for a higher degree of effectiveness in charge of gambling fees, etc., etc. And I absolutely agree before someone corrects the VAT rate they need to get the money where, in some ways, they're being spent irrationally or thrown away. I side 6 says, which means the point of the law, is re-introduced to tax the winnings of lottery games and betting games. The crisis is, so people bet, they want to change their lives overnight for the better. That's legitimate. Anyway, betting lives change to worse. It's also familiar. But what's interesting, I recently read one piece of information about turning 40 billion kuna at the annual level in gambling games in Croatia. Is that true? That's not true? But mostly, this 40 billion kuna piece of data appeared in the paper, and it just seemed almost amazing to me, because it's over 10% of the gross social product, which will say that then this country is doing nothing, but that it's just betting and I'm glad it's being denied right now. Article 8 states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will lay down criteria for the identification of users and the distribution of gambling revenues to finance programmes of organisations that promote the development of sports, contribute to the fight against drug abuse, then to organisations engaged in social humanitarian activities, which deal with problems and meet the needs of people with disabilities, who deal with technical culture, culture, non-institutional, etc. Taking care of children, young people, and not counting on them. For the financing of the programme, it means from this item or what I was talking about, 50% of the annual fees from making gambling games in casinos, 50% of the monthly fees from throwing games on the same casinos, 50% of the annual fees from betting games, then 50% of the games on automatics, etc., lottery 50%, etc., etc. So the state absolutely cares about that tax. Is that normal? It's absolutely fine. But we should also mention that in some earlier periods we've already had a tax on those profits. I don't know why it gave up and now it's coming back again. Could it be an effect and the opposite of simply being interested in paying those tickets lota falls etc. so there will be less resources in the state budget to finance those activities that I quoted in Article 8? Maybe. If that happens, maybe it won't be bad. I don't know, we'll see what time it shows. But before I mention this casino in Istria, and in Istria, enough is enough, let's just mention sanctions. Some of them are big, but it's either gross sanctions or it's moving there somewhere between 50 and 500 thousand kunas. So from 50 to 500 thousand kuna, from 5 thousand to 50 thousand kuna, etc. So I dare say that these sanctions are in a lot of cases, say, even less than they were for those traders who had open stores on Sundays. Many penalties in this activity are less than to catch someone in a cafe with a cigarette on fire, and I don't think one such approach just doesn't make sense, that these little people should be allowed to work, and then we deal with those casinos and things like that. Article 38 states that the annual fee in accordance with Article 31 of Regulation (EU) No 500,000 kuna shall be paid for the preparation of gambling in casinos for each casino. For each casino opening over the year, the annual fee is paid in full amount, which means that 500 thousand kuna, but what is certain is that Article 52 is that the tax on profits is paid at a rate of 15% on profits of more than 40 thousand kuna to a million kuna, and at a rate of 20% on profits above 1 million kuna. Tax on the winnings from the bet... This article is calculated on the salary of the profits and the account and payment made by the betting game editor, the basis for the profit tax is the individual cash amount of the winnings above 40 thousand kunas, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the state needs money, that's the point. So up to 40,000 kuna won't be taxed and bigger than that will be taxed at first by 15%, or more than one million kuna. State, as I said, needs money, if this law, as I see P.Z.E., means European law, then why didn't this matter have been regulated before, whether it will reduce interest, if it decreases I think it would be okay, but what if it happens on the other hand because of this to reduce and certain tourist activity in those areas where such facilities become carriers of this tourist activity. Rumors of money being laundered from terrorism in casinos, I think it's naive, but that's probably where the mob's money is being laundered. That's probably right. To launder money, avoid some payments, etc. It is also true, however, that is the essence of why the Republic of Croatia has not already regulated one such substance. The IDS Club will be for this law, I said the money in the state should, it will eventually get caught wherever it is, and unfortunately it is not too much in this country to finance this deficit. So clearly before the interest is raised, the VAT, which I know something else, let's take the bet, let's get it into alcohol, let's finally let the companies that have a monopoly in this country, let's say for the production of cigarettes, etc., share fate with the people, not that all the burden is transferred to the citizens. It is certain that in the time ahead, the Government will leave nothing behind when it comes to taxation. We've seen inspectors being sent back to the field, etc., but let's make sure that these inspections don't, and that little economic activity doesn't stop. Because, as a rule, taxes are paid small, they don't pay the biggest ones, they usually pay their obligations, to be cynical, to avoid, and what I'm sure, which I'm sure they certainly pay the fines exclusively small, and to great ones no one dares or comes. All in all, I think this was to be regulated, but what bothers me is this practice that we get the law on Tuesday, and then without some specific preparation of the law should be discussed on Friday. With this practice, I dare say that we MPs bet with the state, we're actually betting on the fate of 4 and a half million people in this country, because, on many legal solutions, many of us don't really know what we're holding hands for, and some legal solutions determine the fate of those 4 and a half million inhabitants, and some of these laws are heavy billions and billions of kunas. I just want to believe that we are not wrong about this law and that this law will not be relatively near to experiencing the fate of the Law on Trade, the Law, I don't know, about smoking, we'll probably change it or the fate of the Law on 0.0 promiscations. Croatia simply has no time to play with legal solutions in such a way, in the moments of a deep and deep crisis. All in all, once again, the IDS Club believes that these gains should be taxed and so much, and this is a fundamental change compared to existing legal solutions plus that regulation of the Internet booklet and we will clearly support that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36654	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36655	Dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. A prominent politician who was well quoted and highly invited to the premises of these Balkan peninsula countries, Finnish Prime Minister Altisari wrote at the time: "The state lottery must remain state-owned, because it is the only tax institution and body where taxpayers run to pay the tax on their own." That it thus testifies that the United States as a country of neoliberalism and liberal economy, the market economies have as many national lotterys as the United States has. Why? Because it is really a way of collecting taxes for the general social well-being and for the general social benefits, in a way that citizens don't feel it as a tax press or a state coercion. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that in our Republic of Croatia since 1990, there is a time when, in fact, legislation puts Croatia's lottery into a fair competition with other participants, who are involved in the business. Why am I saying that? Casino Austria is a largely state-owned company. There are no private casino games or casinos, games in private-owned casinos. Casino Austria has an international that allows their leaders to establish companies outside the state and that, eventually, if something is done under the table, they do so on the territory of Croatia, Hungary or other countries. The other important thing about this regulation is that unfortunately, and the laws passed in the 1990s, and even the corrections and corrections made in 2001 did not respect the arguments and attitudes and opinions of the people involved in the profession, and they are employed in the strongest or only state-owned company involved. Why am I saying that? Because during the period I followed and which I had the opportunity to follow directly the Croatian lottery was controlled in respect of all the legal regulations that actually brought it into a very difficult and worse position on the market. Until then, the king’s automatic clubs could use certain holes or benefits, official and unofficial, which allowed them to take advantage not in the beginning, but throughout the race. So I will stand up for the club and personally and in the debate that will follow the individual, that this law goes into two readings. It won't work. But I think that certain solutions should be tested first within the Croatian lottery, and only then say we open the match for others. Some will say in defence of this position of the bill's proposal, that it is a alignment with European directives, that in a casino sport we should say so to the casinos. The Federal Republic of Germany in each casino has a tax inspector present since the opening, meaning from the entry of employees into the casino area to the lockdown. Every tax inspector pays multiples. It provides a salary for at least four or five people every day in a tax inspection. We control and have the ability to control gambling, however, it is in line with the European initiative. But automatic clubs, not in automatic clubs. No record of the entry of persons into automatic clubs. And in Croatian times, much more resources are spinning, and I regret that some colleagues are discussing, debated with the basis of the impressions, not the basis of knowledge, more resources than in the casinos themselves. I therefore think that the evaluations resulting from these proposals are not adequate for one reason. They're based on simulations as much as I've been informed since 2008. Indicators say the drop in gambling and automatic clubs is about 40%. The recession must be one of the reasons, and you know what the other one is? The law on the use of tobacco products. And what's going to happen out of this now? There's no smoking in automatic clubs, but there's smoking on the Internet. The Internet in this version of me opens up again the possibility of free hunting for individual players to enter this business. That's why I advocate going over the Croatian lottery. Secondly, to reduce fees per year for online gambling events, but to increase the monthly rate and provide instruments for monthly fees that would be fairer and more positive. Overall, I want to stress the positive is that VAT is abolished. We are probably the only country that has found that there are additional values on gambling payments and we have actually cheated on lottery players and other gambling players for years, because not that 50% of the amounts paid were immediately allocated for general humanitarian and social needs, but it was even reduced to VAT. I also agree with taxation, but I suggest you make sure that small players and small events are the biggest and that in that space we take a lip to say so. But that one lip is about, let's say 2 million Croats who will pay the lottery, because it's a 16 million kuna hit. Tax on profits, I also agree partly with my colleague Maric, and I think you should also see the differentiated rate that is at which height of the hits. I didn't have to say I thought and counted which amount would be for some amount of winnings, but I think it would be useful for that diapazone to expand and increase, these tax collectors no longer like the rate, but I don't think it's so often that 17 million is the main match on the lot or the Joker. I repeat, the Internet opens up completely new opportunities, the Internet takes over the gambling area, and there, indeed, the ministry and the associated services must be ready to take over the technical and other control options that will happen and what happens and normally collect adequate revenues for the country. I'm going to go back to the beginning of the law a little bit, and I'm going to tell the distribution of the profits, or the funds from the payments. I wouldn't want to go back to some time when SOFKA existed, some seniors remember that. SOFKA has been an asset-sharing participant since then. And this SOFKA was returning funds in a certain percentage to the place of payment. I think even in gambling, the state should see, it's a kind of decentralisation. Why? You have here now I am looking at my colleague Rožić, but also some others from tourist areas or not tourist areas. You have bookies, you have casinos, you have people who like to pay the lottery, sports forecasts. They pay large amounts of which even the Kuna does not return to your municipality or city. For your sport. And it's mostly about sports forecasts and those athletes who play. And I think it would be useful and good to see especially today when we're losing sponsors in view of the situation in society, to install a permanent mechanism that will bind those game directors fortunately to base payments or let the big traffic achieved at a particular location be through the ministry, not their direct ones, but through the ministry they're providing units to local self-government. Well, there's my attitude as well as the VAT. Here I am looking at a fellow Turk with a "West Game" centre, he will have nothing from VAT, spend a lot of millions in road maintenance, municipal infrastructure, even if everyone is employed mainly from Zagreb, then he will have no income tax. The fact is that the centres where big traffic is realized are burdened with higher investment in municipal infrastructure, maintenance and the like. And that this issue should be taken into account in the affairs of decentralisation and one of those jobs is this one. And to say some other things that I think are extremely important. All that's scheduled for licensing I won't let you know and for the others it's less important that they're not involved. I think that there should also be a line on the leaders of automatic clubs that should be licensed because this is also about the ability to launder money for terrorism or from criminal activities and this is about prevention when it comes to younger people and this is about prevention when it comes to people who are sick of playing on machines. And what's more important, I'm doing the most I can to control the percentages of the winnings. It's 80 percent. We are not sure, I do not know if anyone can guarantee that every automatic club in the Republic of Croatia meets the percentage that is legally determined minimum that must be paid from the payment in the machine. This was the area where we had the most objections from players from abroad because there are far greater amounts left to the editor in the percentage machine with us than abroad but I think it is the area where the maximum state must be restrictive, daily control and day-to-day supervision and technical supervision, so the line connecting with the ministry I know that it will increase in part of the administration but I think it is the most useful increase in administration of all the activities or of most of the activities that we have within the state service. So I would suggest I repeat, I know that it won't go into two readings, that we go with some improvements and that we go with some preventive corrections that will bring time. I repeat, the ban law, tobacco products, the ban on smoking will be dragged to the Internet. The Internet is discreet, no one sees you from fellow citizens, from family members you don't see to bet, to play games on the Internet and it will become a dominant industry in gambling. And I think we need to be prepared for that already in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36656	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36657	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This bill that we are discussing today, which is the law on gambling with the final draft of the law, can definitely say something free to say something with which we have been delayed and unsettled, legally unsettled by this area, is certain that such a bill by many casino owners, bookshops, automatic clubs are not fully justified because the fact that the exact truth does not exist, the information we are talking about is said by fellow Caine from the media. My data from the media is that there's about 20 billion kuna in that space every year. Is that true again we don't know, I hope you know. But in any case, regardless of the amount, it doesn't matter whether it is 5, 10, 15, 20 billion, but quite certain that this part of the market was regulated legally in a way that many have used benefits primarily to carry out illegal actions of fact and we have witnessed especially in the 1990s very difficult criminal activities in that particular area and because of such systems, it is conditional on me saying that money laundering is definitely, one space that provides the maximum possibility for such criminal activities, and it is certain that many will not, many will reduce the ability to work, the manner of conduct, but certainly gives the responsible state and why we weren't responsible for this space long ago is another issue, but with this bill, the responsible state implements and introduces order above all, and on the other hand creates and opens the additional possibility of filling the state budget. Therefore, an additional chance for all citizens in this country primarily by introducing order. It is certain that it is necessary to welcome or support the introduction and introduction of new fees for gambling directors, the increase in core capital, equalisation of taxation, taxation of profits. When it comes to taxation of profits and on the Committee on Finance, we have had this debate and I am glad that the proposing accepts the proposal of the Committee on Finance, which is that the untaxed portion is reduced from 40,000 to 30 because the fact that 40,000 kuna is roughly an annual income of employees in this country and those who have 40,000 kunas can say that they are in a group of happier citizens. And unfortunately, so that amount as the lower limit is normally problematic. My personal attitude to everyone but that's my position, it's not the club's position, but I should also have regard for those who simply have that personal adrenaline that can't function without betting and there's a lot of it because it's the fact that according to the information that I have again, and that's that by the number of bookies per capita, we're four times stronger than the UK, which is known as a nation with that adrenaline betting. Therefore, it is a single market that has not been regulated so far, a market that has created a whole series of possibilities for criminal activities always and to the detriment of the citizens of this country. First of all, when I say that, I mean the state budget. And I'm sure this should be supported. And we at the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill. But I have one very specific question. Namely, counterpart Hanzek has already mentioned and I fully agree with him that the state lottery must be state-owned, that control of these gambling games must be maximum under state control, maximum. There's a whole series of maximum, core capital, fees, all this other stuff. Croatia's lottery is definitely under the control of the state, but Article 9 of Article 3 states: "Croatian lottery can be privatised under a special law.". Knowing us, whether there's room for something that's at the expense of our citizens. I personally hope that I don't personally expect that attitude inside to change. My personal suggestion that this position does not exist, that it simply prevents any possibility for anyone in this country to go to the privatisation of the Croatian lottery. This is a direct damage to the taxpayers, it is a direct damage to this country's interest and I think it would be smart and wise, and therefore I suggest that if we need to go with the amendment, we will agree, but I think that this position is completely unnecessary in this Article 9 which is that Croatia's lottery can be privatised under a special law because the fact that the State lottery funds are also financed by the Olympic Committee, that the fight against drugs is funded and that many projects and programmes that we need extremely as a regulated state are financed from these funds. And that is why these programmes are implemented very well because they have a fixed law guaranteeed income, regardless of whether communication with some ministry head, in a particular ministry is good, bad, whose color uniforms are etc.. Therefore, in any case, one transparency that needs to be supported, and precisely because of this transparency, thinks it would be good to simply completely and legally prevent any idea that Croatia's lottery is going to any kind of privatisation. Finally, at the Club of the Croatian People's Party, we will support this Bill of Happiness bill, noting that it is very likely, not very likely, but almost certainly there is room to go in two readings, but if the Proposer estimates that this bill can pass and in the first reading then I simply call on those responsible to implement this law with amendments and amendments to the laws with amendments and additions to the laws we adapt to that market that reacts very quickly. On that market practically per second, as soon as some cracks of reactions occur, they are current and generally always at the expense of our citizens, above all, of the state budget. So in this sense, we in Croatia pray to the People's Party or suggest that those responsible respond and prevent the abuse of the trust they have had, which they have used many times so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36658	HDZ Representatives' Club. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36659	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. I will start by saying that we from the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the law on gambling that we are discussing at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on an urgent procedure, given that it is in one part harmonizing with the legal acquis of the European Union. In accordance with the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2009 and in the section relating to the chapter on freedom of movement of capital and, in accordance with the action plan for the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, the Republic of Croatia has committed to access to the amendments and additions to the applicable law currently in the Republic of Croatia, which currently provides for the activity of throwing games on happiness and other prize games. I think it is particularly necessary to highlight one fact that the activity of gambling at European Union level is not uniformly defined. That is, there is no legal property which would uniquely determine for all Member States of the European Union the terms and conditions of gambling but is left to each individual Member State to govern it on its own in a way that it considers most appropriate. Despite this fact, however, it is also necessary to say that there are exceptions to the provisions of the law on gambling relating to the area of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which means that the law must contain those provisions and that they must be in line with both the relevant directives of the European Union and the national legislation regulated by that area. In addition to the obligation to comply with the acquis of the European Union, there are a number of other reasons why the applicant has proposed the adoption of a completely new law which will bring up several of them. The first reason is the need to improve the gambling system and to raise funds more effectively on this basis. Therefore, new provisions have been proposed concerning the technical conditions of gambling, given the development of new technologies and some other newspapers that I will say more about later. Another reason is the need to comply with already passed or laws to be passed in the meantime. So this is about the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists brought by this House last year and whose provisions are in line with the acquis of the European Union and the Law on Value Added Taxation, whose amendments and additions have been released into the legislative procedure at the same time as this law that we discussed at the previous point. The third reason is to respect the recommendations of the Special Unit for HITRAZ as these recommendations go in the direction of simplifying the provisions of the law itself, by eradicating, or by abolishing certain unnecessary and excessive obligations to gamemakers. And finally the fourth reason, the need for a quality way to settle certain issues that are not regulated or not properly regulated by the applicable law. It can therefore be concluded that the basic reasons for the adoption of a new Law on Happiness on the one hand on the need to bring this area into line with the acquis of the European Union and horizontal harmonisation at national level, on the other hand, in order to improve and improve the quality of the legal arrangements for the activities of gambling in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law on gambling in the shortest lines regulates the system, types and conditions of bringing games to happiness, rules and procedures to acquire and withdraw the right to play games of happiness, the rights and obligations of game-makers, the way in which the incomes achieved and the supervision of game-makers are distributed. In accordance with Article 5 of the proposed law on gambling, as is the case with the applicable law, gambling is classified as four basic groups of games, i.e. lottery games, casino games, betting and gambling games on automatics. It should be pointed out that it is exclusively the right of the Republic of Croatia to play gambling in the territory of the Republic of Croatia which it can transfer through concession or approval to companies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Also, the law rules the exclusive right to organise lottery games and the unlimited right to organise other games, so gambling games in casinos, gambling games and gambling games on automatics, transfers from the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian lottery whose founder is the Republic of Croatia. This means that the lottery games in the Republic of Croatia can only be organised by the Croatian lottery, while other games, fortunately, can be organised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by the approval of the Ministry of Finance along with Croatia's lottery and other companies. Of course, they must meet the conditions laid down in this law. For the sake of information alone, I will mention the fact that a total of 79 concessions from 110 are awarded in the territory of the Republic of Croatia under the applicable law and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the number of concessions. 16 gambling concessions in casinos, 10 gambling concessions and 53 gambling concessions in automatic clubs. The new law on gambling provides for many changes in relation to the current law, which I will mention are the ones that are most important in my opinion, so let's move in order. New fees shall be introduced for the preparation of gambling directors, i.e. the annual fee for casinos and bookshops and monthly fee for lottery games, and the basis for the calculation of existing fees shall be changed. The VAT shall be abolished for lottery games, in accordance with Article 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act and introducing a monthly fee of 10%. Taxation of winnings from lottery games on happiness and gambling is introduced at 15% for winnings from 40 to million kuna and 20% for winnings above million kuna. It introduces the possibility of throwing gambling on the Internet, telephones and other interactive communication devices. An obligation shall be introduced to establish continuous and direct supervision by the Ministry of Finance in a way that directly connects to the information system of the gambling directors by the Ministry of Finance. The special chapter detailed the procedure for giving the right to play games of chance, with an emphasis on the tender procedure. The basis for determining the level of guarantee of banks is changed, which mainly increases the level of necessary guarantees. The required value of the underlying capital of companies is increased. Finally, provisions are introduced that regulate responsible game-making, with the ban on advertising in the media and TV shows for children and youth. It is very important to point out that the application of the proposed law to the promotions based on the 2008 data will have significant financial effects on the state budget, and they are estimated to be somewhere at 120 million kuna. In addition, the positive financial effects should also be felt by the organisations referred to in Article 8. The laws, which deal with socially beneficial activities and which account for 50% of the total fees made, and 50% of the funds obtained by Croatia's lottery. Respecting the definition of a gambling game that says: a gambling game is considered to be a game in which to pay a certain amount to the players of the game, where winning or losing depends largely on the case or any other uncertain event. So, the very definition of betting games, or games of chance, will say you can get gentlemen, but your probability is very low. That's why I call all the players to caution and moderation in gambling, because rarely they have afforded wealth, and indeed many bankruptcy and poverty. In the end, due to everything previously said, but primarily because of the alleged financial effects and order that the Law on Games on Happiness could in practice win and bring, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36660	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative of Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36661	Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues from the government. Dear Parliamentarians. Here we have before us a law on gambling which is related to the current 2002 Law on this topic, and here after 6, 7 years we have a new bill here, which is certainly harmonised by Croatian legal legislation with the European legislation, and in the very proposal for a law on compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. In addition to these commitments, the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the European acquis, and the specific obligations of the negotiating position relating to freedom of movement of capital, the legislator of the law, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, this proposal promotes the system of gambling and more effectively collects funds from that base, respects the specific recommendations of the HITREZ unit and regulates issues which are not or are not sufficiently regulated by the applicable law. Given that the provisions of the applicable law are partly and old, and the activities of gambling are greatly affected by the development of technology, some new provisions have been proposed regarding technical conditions. For example, the possibility of throwing games at chance, so lottery games, betting games in casinos through interactive channels on-line, and introducing a daily, continuous obligation on-line surveillance. I might also say a few words here about something that is related to the responsibility of making games of chance, as well as the use of funds or the distribution of revenue from games of chance to species. This applies in particular to Article 8 of the Law, where it is important to say that the revenues from gambling are allocated to the funding of programmes of organisations promoting the development of sport, contributing to the fight against drug abuse and all other forms of addiction, and particularly to social and humanitarian activities, as well as to the problems and meeting the needs of persons with disabilities, technical culture, extra-institutional education, and in particular to raising children, young people and ultimately contributes to the development of civil society. However, when I have mentioned and said the word responsibility, this law brings some part of something new because the existing law so far does not foresee the possibility of banning or restricting the playing of individuals. And the proposal for this new law prohibits or restricts certain persons, in particular casino players, only this activity, i.e. playing if there is a reasonable assumption that the frequency and intensity of their participation in the game poses a threat to their existential minimum, thus asking for institutions dealing with family protection can be determined either by banning or by restricting individual persons. Also, the game editor, especially those in the casino area, is obliged to highlight the notices that are related to responsible play, to possible game damage, and to the real chances of winning. Also, the old law so far does not foresee the possibility of checking player's adulthood. This is a new proposal in case of suspicion of a minor player, betting a player in an automatic club may seek proof of their adulthood. Also, the existing law so far does not prescribe a ban on advertising gambling in print media, especially in youth shows, during the ban on gambling in print media and radio-television shows for children and youth as such. I said these few sentences given the second segment, which is the social danger of games of happiness and of negative consequences that have far-reaching consequences for both those who play for both the tight and the wider family especially for children and the large part of the problems that arise. In view of this and in person, and also as a member of the Committee on Finance under certain amendments which we have submitted as a committee, I support the proposal to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36662	Thank you. It is now up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36663	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm a little embarrassed to talk about the law of luck, because I've never paid a single ticket in my life, and I'm not going to pay, but I'm going to support the law. This is for the most part because of national interests and filling the state budget, so to this end I only volunteered to supplement the amendment submitted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget with a personal amendment to comply with taxes and tax rates on profits in the same way as the Committee did. So in Article 18, the Committee has already said what the amendment is, and I would also suggest that in Article 52 that the basis be not 40000 kuna, but that it be 30000 kuna in order for the gain of more than 30000 kuna to be taxable. In fact, that's much more just. It is simple because as many as 200000 employees in Croatia work, invest their efforts both physically and mentally, and the total annual net income is forty thousand kuna. And that's what taxes and contributions pay for, and if someone got 40,000 kunas to pay no taxes, I think it would be so unacceptable, unnatural, and it would be fairer to cut that rate, so I suggest, in Article 52, a reduction of base from 40 to 30,000 kuna. But also the tax base at a rate of 15% to reduce in Article 52 from a million to 500,000 kuna, so that the tax rate of 20% is wider and more covered by over 500,000 kuna. With that amendment, I personally support the adoption of the law on gambling. And by comparing the rates in other countries, I think those rates are consistent and that this is an adjustment to the standards of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36664	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36665	To remain recorded, I personally not only support the next position as a representative of the SDP club, which is to erase the possibility of privatising Croatia's lottery. Because it may be the last fortification of our national exclusive property in a few years. Secondly, the proposal to abolish the fees for Croatia's lottery when it comes to casinos and toys, because it is actually from left to right or right to left pocket the transfer of the same funds that are, the mass of funds available to Croatia's lottery. And in any case, a certain advantage should be given in this game, because, as the European counterparts said, there is no uniformly defined, and there is no pretention to unequivocally determine that area. As for fellow Maric, I don't know how to play cards, I've never gambled, but I've professionally met it, so maybe from a distance I can tell you what it is. It's a monster in people who are sick, but if we stop them from doing it at our place, they'll do it elsewhere. At the time of socialism, locals were not allowed to gamble in casinos. They went to Austria, they went to Italy. In Italy less, but in Austria that and therefore I think the area should be regulated, state control boosted and there I would agree to have stimulation let's now make popular newspaper names that are in the newspapers of public companies, bonuses that have people working in control institutions because these are the means that, with good control, will remain within the framework of state control and state income, and will not be poured into black, not gray, but into the black economy. So support, maximum state control. I repeat, I don't agree with this. Small players should remain exempt from profit taxes, and increase proportionally then according to amounts like other countries. It means that it's increasing proportionally according to size and up to 90% if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36666	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36667	I'm really glad to hear that you're not a gambler, and I'm glad to hear that about anyone. You said it was a monster game of chance, and she tends to monsters. It depends on the level someone's in love with in such a game. I think the problems arise the moment it becomes a vice. And then it becomes a wider social problem. As I recently said, the achievement and gain the main driving force of society and humanity as a whole, but when this desire for wealth becomes a vice, then all social problems arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36668	Replica reply, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36669	Well, when I told you about the monster, I was thinking about those who got sick of that disease. I have seen unfortunately both university professors and teachers who have lost their property, who, before going to work, come to automatic clubs and who are sick players, literally disease as well as others that we don't treat as diseases, and that's why I think and I said, control at automatic clubs, that is, licensing of machine club leaders because there's also tragedy happening, but unfortunately sheltered with those closed windows with advertising signs we don't see an individual who actually destroys his family and himself in that place. And it's not a social or public interest. The interest is to find pleasure in such a game, but not to harm family and society.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36670	Thank you. And a five-minute debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36671	Dear Vice President, given that the second vice president... I look at the clock and I see it's zeitnos, I'll do it very briefly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The SDP club will support this law if it passes the conclusion that the situation is closely monitored by the end of the year and that by 31.12 we try to fix, correct things that will show the time it is necessary to do, in particular I think there should be consideration of compensation for Internet games. So as not to understand, casino, classic casino in terms of 15 and casino is adequately applied. Taxation should be indicated that the fee also applies to Internet games, i.e. online games. In any case, I think it's a good thing to fix up and according to the times ahead or in which we are to build the law, repair it. I will never be against discussing if, within 3 months, twice the same law, if time brings about the need for change, I am opposed to rejecting concrete or constructive proposals of opposition, and only for that reason must we go again or again with the debate on the same law in 2 or 3 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36672	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ivica Mladneo.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to thank everyone for the discussion, a brief answer. The dilemma of how many payments there were. It wasn't 40 or 20, it was about 8 billion kuna. Four billion to bet, four billion to everything else. As far as these other questions are concerned, as regards the privatisation of the Croatian lottery, this was before in the law, and I think it is good to be because, if it happens to go, this esteemed Parliament must again pass a special law so that it can be privatised. Therefore, it may already be a restriction not to go to privatisation. And I think this law introduces much more control, especially online connection, which will bring both order and more answers. We can't keep track until the end of the year because the next year's application is next year, and by then we'll be preparing all these technical things so we can control it as well. Finally, the amendment of the Committee on Finance and the esteemed representative, Mr. Maric, is accepted to reduce those censors from 40 to 30 by 15% and from a million to 500 thousand kuna from 20%. Here, Mr. Vice President. We accept the amendments, I said. The amendments given by the Committee on Finance and Mr Maric, a representative, are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36674	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law on gambling. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Finance and the state budget and by representative Goran Maric. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted all amendments and did not vote on them because it became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft law on gambling. Please, let's get on with it. Please, let's vote. Score. I find that with 98 votes for, 13 abstentions, the Final Proposal was passed, the law on gambling in the text, as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The declaration of July 11th The Day of Remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide is a political decision that once and for all, whoever produced it, in any name, is condemned and not tolerated for any purpose. I would remind you that in 2005 in Croatia, we made clear in a statement about Srebrenica what we think about crimes such as Vukovar, Srebrenica and their places throughout the former state community. I would also like to remind you that since 4 years ago, the youth of the city of Zagreb and other major cities of Croatia has been organizing the attacks of Srebrenica and other places under the code "never forget". This year, young Slovenia, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina joined them. For the following year, we have announced that some civil associations of Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and the European Union are also actively involved in this event, so that it can be talked about the European movement of young people against war in general. I would like to thank all parliamentary parties and civil organisations who have recognised the peaceful content of days of memories, whose representatives have actively participated in generating these activities. I also use the opportunity to thank the European Parliament, which adopted the first of this year's Resolution on Srebrenica and in some way indicated that all European countries adopt this document and I don't know how much you were on the occasion to see, yesterday, Montenegro's Parliament adopted so that on July 11th, it was declared the Day of Remembrance of the Srebrenica Genocide. I thank all my colleagues and all the parliamentary clubs that helped me create this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-10-0.u36678	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the vote. The first 20 points, including this item, would now be voted in the first part of the vote. After that, they would give a 30-minute recess where they would vote on the election of members of the State Judicial Council, which is held by a secret vote, with ballot boxes, in the same way as the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. And immediately after the vote-counting break would go to the debate and vote on amendments to the Law on Medical Aided Insemination. Now, please, let's get on board to determine the quorum. What's the score? 81 MPs and MPs are according to the involved. So we have a voting quorum. First, I would like to vote on a proposal for a decision declaring July 11th the Day of Remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 102 votes for and one abstention. A decision was made declaring July 11th the Day of Remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide.
