ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45225	Thank you. Mr. President of the Parliament, I wouldn't start by explaining this proposal, I don't see anyone from the government. Then we wait until someone from the government gets here. I'm looking for a break then until someone from the government arrives, because it's absolutely incorrect for this House to explain the motion to launch one of the ministers' resignations without anyone from the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45226	... to have a representative of the government here and if you're looking on behalf of the club break, okay. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45227	On behalf of the SDP club, I've been looking for a break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45228	Ten minutes? 15 minutes. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes and we're going on at 10 and 52. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. On behalf of the SDP Club, no. Okay, thank you. Then, on behalf of the promoter, an additional explanation, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45230	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I don't see Mrs. Prime Minister Kosor here, I wonder if it's because of the lack of courage to listen to today's numerous evidence of damage to the state budget due to the irresponsible management of Minister Calmeta's portfolio, or if it's simply a shame to be here defending the minister who has become an expert in climate in state-run companies, of course it's a special climate of corruption climate. From the evidence we got on the bench, it is clear that the emphasis is precisely on fighting corruption, and it has been expected that Prime Minister Kosor will be here, because to remind you, Prime Minister Kosor is at the head of the anti-corruption action plan committee, zero tolerance, and this shows only on paper and only for small fishes. At the current hour of this 15th session, I asked Minister Calmeti about his famous statement that he was simply unable to control everything that is going on in HAC, HZ, Jadrolini, Airports and 20 other companies in the area of his responsibility. So I was wondering if he could tell me how many kilometres of highways we could build more that he was able to control the work of the administration, the HAC Supervisory Board, where in the State Secretary's office he had chosen to set up the competitions, consistently assigned to jobs at a multiple price than the market, employed people who, according to their last name, blacked out from the sun instead of being in their place of work and still not picking up, briefly speaking constructively and coherently, damaged the state budget, and I was wondering whether the minister felt responsible and when he would resign. At that time, according to Sanader's style, the minister did not answer my question at all by claiming that the only thing he knows is that he knows nothing because everything that happened in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is beyond his responsibility. So I had to remind him that over the past six years, the value of building a kilometer of highways has increased from $4 million to $12 million, although the cost of material and workforce has not increased more than 30%, which means that we could have built three times as many miles as it was built in his mandate. The concept of thinking all over this government is that they are always responsible and never responsible. This is exactly what it says in the light of our proposal that we received on the benches, which confirms that, with the familiar notion of a limited liability society, we in Croatia have a state without responsibility. My colleagues and colleagues, all that followed shortly after the current clock, showed that the main problem of Minister Calmete and all other members of this government, including President Jadranka Kosor, was the complete lack of understanding of the concept of political responsibility. A number of surveys and daily contacts with Croatian citizens show that in Croatia the leading problems of citizens are unemployment and economic stagnation, as well as corruption and an increased sense of uncertainty. In doing so, it should be stressed that the sense of security in its overall width involves job safety, pay, available health care, or schooling of children. All that corruption reduces and everything that part of the state-run companies in Minister Calmete's portfolio never had to worry about. The sense of social uncertainty and perception of citizens about corruption in Croatian society, especially in all state bodies and among politicians, points to the seriousness and need of an even stronger fight against corruption, which is first seen naturally in showing strong political will for those in power, and then in realising strategies and action plans. Croatia's national anti-corruption strategy and action plans marked the first year, the measures are being implemented and the results are missing. Corruption is not less, we still do not have the strengthening of citizens' confidence in the system of legislative and executive authorities, nor the increase in the number of legally condemned verdicts for the perpetrators of corrupt acts. Some will say that it is too short for the strategy to show results. I don't agree with that. An amazing example is that the strategy and action plan adopted by Sanader's government and continued by Prime Minister Kosor's government as the bearer of anti-corruption plans did not foresee Mr. Calmeta's ministry at all. There is no safe measure of corruption, but different research by Tica, Gallupa, GFK for Croatia shows that perception of the risk of corruption is constantly growing but problems remain equally. Although the 2008 TIZI index of 4.4 has been the best since it was measured in Croatia, the drop to 4.1 this year speaks and warns a lot. Namely, no one can dispute that in Croatia today we have a largely good legislative framework that we have established a solid institutional, mutually better-coordinated anti-corruption Jumping Vertical, from the police via the state's attorney USKOK to the Uskoski courts. Then why are there no results, why don't the citizens value this framework with a higher score? We can find answers right through the prism of an affair in the area of responsibility of Minister Calmeta. The answer, among other things, was the European Commission, when it stressed in its report that the political pressure of the ruling HDZ elite led by the fugitive Sanader, whose right hand for 10 years was just Jadranka Kosor, and along with her and Bozidar Kalmeta, is the main reason why there is no more evidence in Croatia that the anti-corruption struggle results. The government was an investor and Kalmeta was an operative. Or as someone said funnyly, after INA's state-owned company in Kalmete's vault, they became other HDZ ATMs. So if we have good anti-corruption laws, and institutions, then the reasons for the ineffectiveness of these same institutions and laws can be, for example, that there is not enough money for institutions to do their jobs. Prime Minister Kosor assures us that there is zero tolerance for corruption but today she is not here to prove it to us and that all necessary financial resources are secured. So if there's money, then the reason might be that people are in the wrong places. But let's even assume that we have quality people in the police department, in the USKOK, in the jump courts that they have really secured all logistics for their work, then the lack of the results of this work is the only explanation that the political pressures have stalled and stalled, the launch of investigations with judgments. And so we come to the fact that for HDZ regardless of Dr. Sanader or the lawyer Kosor only the affairs are permanent. INSTROJ, Brodoplit, Roncevic trucks, Pliva, "INA", "Podravka", "HEP", "HZ", "HAC", reminder works. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45231	Please let Mr. Representative say what he intends to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45232	Thank you, Mr. President. In recent months, there has been an increase in investigations into a number of corruption affairs that have been exposed by no chance when a little vitre has been blown. I wonder what would have happened if a real shadow storm had blown up? Are all the affairs in the state-owned companies in which the investigations take place sufficiently strong evidence that the fight against corruption has finally taken place in Croatia in the right direction? Are these affairs proof of Mrs Jadranka Kosor's readiness to finally clear up corruption because of the interest of Croatian citizens? Our answer is no. Why? So where is Prime Minister Kosor today to personally convince us that there are no more protected in Croatia? They're all the same, she tells us. Yeah, they're all equal, but some are more equal. The answer to that question will be won today through debate and decision on our proposal to raise the issue of trust of the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Bozidar Kalmeti. In all documents, strategies, action plans, anti-corruption textbooks as conditions that move towards fighting corruption are integrity that includes knowledge, ability, skills, leadership, honesty and honesty, then transparency and ultimate responsibility. Transparency or openness in business, the possibility that the public has full insight into the work of a working institution, public procurement or employment is a defence of every corruption, but ladies and gentlemen with integrity and transparency is an unbreakable responsibility. What is the responsibility of a minister? Article 114 of the Croatian Constitution says the government responds to the Croatian Parliament, the president and members of the government together are responsible for the government's decisions, and each minister is personally responsible for the area of his work. If the Prime Minister, its vice-presidents and all ministers are constantly talking about zero tolerance towards corruption and at the same time do not respect the article of the Constitution which clearly states what is the responsibility of all ministers, then there is no credibility in the stories of zero tolerance towards corruption of the same government. And so we come up with an answer to the question that I just asked why the index of corruption more negative in 2009 than in 2008? Why do citizens not trust politicians with government officials and refuse to participate in the fight against corruption? The latest Gallupa survey shows that 84% of citizens do not support the government's direction. 74% believe that corruption and economic stagnation are problems that the current government does not know, cannot and will not solve. While researching "Promotion Plus" 2 days ago, 71% of citizens say they do not trust politicians because in 50% of cases they make decisions only for their own benefit, 29% because of EU pressure, and only in 12%, I repeat in 12% because of voter interest. We see confirmation of these researches in every move by the government of Jadranka Kosor. The absence of vision, strategic thinking and responsibility towards citizens caused an economic crisis that continued in the crisis of society and ended in the most severe crisis, the crisis of state governance. In which, of course, I also refer to state-owned enterprises especially in the area of responsibility of Minister Kalmeta. If Minister Calmeta says he doesn't know, that he didn't see, that he couldn't, but that he wasn't responsible for what he didn't see, which he couldn't, then this kind of government that supports such a minister has no credibility because, with their understanding of irresponsibility and responsibilities, they clearly tell us that despite their mistakes, their affairs, their ignorance, their incompetence will never leave their chairs because of these mistakes because it's simply not their mission. Minister Kalmeta, but at the same time also means his senior Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor, are responsible only for their community, the Croatian Democratic Community, not the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian citizens. Croatia today is unfortunately not a land of righteousness. Corruption, crime, unfair laws do not give citizens equal chances. While some paint tunnels, drive limos and know nothing or are responsible for what they do or don't do, others remain out of work even though they know a lot, they can do a lot and if they want to work for the good of Croatia. The HAC administration accused of crime and corruption, ladies and gentlemen, is not in jail because that's why they should get extraordinary evidence, so they're not in jail. They're on vacation. It is prison accommodation, but they are on vacation and waiting neatly for their severances. Minister Calmett, don't you even know that? That they're on vacation? As you probably haven't noticed, your personal driver with a salary of £4,000 managed to build a villa worth millions of euros. In the context of recession, indifference, rising unemployment and corruption risks, it is necessary to show even stronger strong political will in actions, not just in words and to strengthen all activities of all stakeholders of the action plan strategy, especially ministers in order to prevent, detect early and quickly process any corrupt behaviour. Once again, I stress the constitutional concept of responsibility of the government, the prime minister and the minister, because, for example, It is irresponsible to adopt a state budget that will mean even greater indifference, even greater unemployment and a decline in economic growth, and thus indirect and potential corruption. It is irresponsible that Prime Minister Kosor retains in the government a minister who first claimed that there is no crime in state companies under his supervision, but only a perception of the wicked media and the envious SDP. Then he changed his mind a little, and he said that the chairman of the Supervisory Board he chose and appointed to oversee the "Croatian highways" was leaving for family reasons, and the peak was when the heads of the administration he chose again left because of a bad climate. Yeah, it was a really bad climate, first-class corruption climate. "The Moment of Truth" is not particularly valuable, but believe me, Minister Calmeta, Prime Minister Kosor, if I wasn't talking about Eve Sanader, I wouldn't have passed the first question on that show. The minister who created a bountiful climate for the boom of corruption gets the undivided support of members of the government regardless of which parties they came from, so it will be very interesting today to hear the HDZ coalition partners explain to themselves and their voters the concept of their responsibility to lead the state budget in corruption affairs. With this irresponsible behaviour of the prime minister, her ministers, the entire government, Croatia will not reach the corruption 5 perception index for much longer, which would mean an increase in foreign investment of around 6 billion. Twice as many as the pay and pension harassers or the annual amount of damage to the economy due to corruption, although there are estimates that HAC has cost us 8 billion kuna, but the minister does not know, has not seen, has not heard, and does not seem to be a prime minister. I know I don't know anything, our minister says. I expected the Prime Minister to say, I'm fond of Bozidar, but I prefer the truth, I prefer honesty and responsibility. Instead of holding the prime minister against anything responsible Minister Calmeta, Minister Kalmeta is even being fenced by the prime minister in encouraging and enlightening corruption affairs, he noted Sanader as the beginner of the anti-corruption struggle. Yes, Mr. Calmeta, you're right. You are right in some way, because there has been no corruption affair in the past 6 years whose paths do not lead towards your government and anti-corruption testing in Croatia has just begun Sanader, entwining a network of corruption that has led Croatia as a political model of HDZ governance and their sponsors and partners for the past 6 years. So let's be serious, ladies and gentlemen. Neither Sanader nor Kosor allowed the fight against corruption, but rather the beating of the European Commission and the pressure of the media and the public. Croatia needs more justice and accountability and transparency in order to fight corruption and protect the quality of life of all Croatian citizens. Croatia needs a new generation of politicians who will have the concept of responsibility and transparency towards the citizens of Croatia, not party members, parties or communities as a condition of action at any time. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 113 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the SDP in the Croatian Parliament, submit today's proposal to raise questions about the confidence of the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Božidar Kalmeti, because it bears political responsibility for serious criminal and corrupt activities in Croatia road construction, Croatian highways, Croatian roads, Autocesta Rijeka-Zagreb, as it carries political responsibility for the difficult situation and for the suspected and corrupt activities of HZ Holding and for the frequent traffic accidents on Croatian railways. And third because he bears political responsibility for the bad situation in Croatia. Mr. President, please calm down. ... I will, but I'm asking you to calm down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45233	I'll intervene when it's not possible for you to speak. And you can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45234	I can't, I can't. I'm in trouble with the noise.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45235	Either you talk or you don't talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45236	Here's another example of how this assembly protects Parliamentarians' right to speak. So these three points that I've cited why we're looking for the initiation of the trust procedure for Minister Calmeti are detailed in the materials that you've been given. And if I were to explain every point, there's no Mrs. Kosor to tell her, five days wouldn't be enough. Five days is necessary for each point. So 15 days should sit here when I go dot by dot explain why Minister Calmeta deserves to lose confidence in this House. So I'll just give you a few details, and we'll explain the rest if necessary. Within the Croatian road construction, the design of all participants in the construction of road infrastructure and significant investment buildings was created. Participants and corruptive equipment are the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Croatian Highways, Croatian Roads, Rijeka-Zagreb highways, the Institute of Construction of Croatia, and a whole series of interested companies or their consortiums that participated in road construction. The works related to road construction are marked by the playfulness of the Public Procurement Act, the apportionment of competitions that are pre-arranged with specific conditions of competition in the project, technical, technological and cost-effectiveness. Such tenders would be reported by a number of entities simulating competition by playing public procurement procedures in order to carry out business in cooperation with several entities in order to achieve a high price. It's a deal. We had a classic example of a negotiated economy in public procurement. I believe you could write a master's degree and a Ph.D. on it. Despite such artificial rises in the price of work under way, it is additionally raised by installation of replacement construction material, unnecessary project solutions and the like. Tragically, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor explained that the resolute minister did not know what was going on in the road construction sector, and that he was not referred to any criminal activities. We can't accept that. Mr. Kalmeta, at the head of this resort for 6 years, has often been warned through media but also through a number of parliamentary issues, discussions in the Croatian Parliament, through which he received concrete information that pointed to crime and malversion in road construction. With the absence of necessary investment in Croatian railways, they have lost for years on their core activity, competitiveness and cost-effectiveness. The development of the railway in Croatia has been completely halted as a result of the damage done to the Republic of Croatia in the system itself. Minister Calmeta himself, I personally stress this time, guaranteed modernization, but nothing happened. So, if Minister Kalmeta does not recognise command responsibility, as he says, his job is only a strategy, then the Croatian Railways are the reason why, because of the lack of a strategy, Minister Kalmeta deserves not to gain the confidence of this Parliament. Croatian mail. The national public operator is today ahead of the most uncertain period of its long history. All the accumulated problems that have resulted in huge losses to the core activity of the public operator have now reached its peak. In fact, while the loss of basic activity for 2006 amounted to 82 million kuna, it rose to a record 139 million kuna in 2007, an increase in losses of incredible 69%. Although the business plan provided for a positive result. Mr. Minister says he is in charge of the strategy, there is no strategy in the Croatian Post Office, so there is yet another evidence of the necessity to vote untrusted. There is no difference in Polancec's responsibility for the case of Podravka and Kalmeta's responsibility for road construction affairs, threatened safety and frequent rail traffic accidents, as well as complete chaos in the postal services market or in Croatia post office. The two-fold criteria of the prime minister and coalition partners can only show and prove that they are more important to peace in the party than fighting corruption and the interests of Croatian citizens. In this place, I remind all of us here, but especially Mr. Calmett and the train tragedy at Kaštel, when a combination of nepotism, irresponsibility, non-transparent public procurement, bribery and corruption took six human lives. Minister Calmeta offered to resign at the time. Mr. Calmeta, you said you were offering your resignation because of your commanding responsibility. Six months later you keep saying there's no commanding responsibilities. Billions of kuna have disappeared in HAC's affairs as well as the notion of responsibility of a minister who seems to be worried this time that his offer by Prime Minister Kosor would probably accept both hands, hoping that the two Kalmeta-Sanader will soon have serious talks with serious people whose task is to discover where the state budget money went missing. In conclusion, one of the key issues that many in Croatia today have asked themselves regardless of the SDP, HDZ, public, foreign public, whether Jadranka Kosor and her ministers understand the concept of responsibility at all. Ladies and gentlemen, let's remember the Minister of Health Ana Stavinic Rukavina's responsibility for the Baxter affair. What was she supposed to know? What could she see? But the lady is the only one left so far who has resigned on her own. Think about it, Mr. Calmeta. Persevering denial of command responsibility means you're telling us that you'll never be responsible for corruption or for anything else you do without declaring your merits. For six years now, Bozidar Kalmeta has been running a resort in which he has created a bountiful climate for corruption and crime to flourish. But he doesn't know anything about it. He's allowed to be driven by drivers and painted by the secretary of state. Minister Kalmeta, Prime Minister Kosor and the entire government have been washing their hands off responsibility in damages greater than the value of a state budget, caused by corruption and crime in state-owned companies over the past six years and by estimates of the World Bank amounted to 120 billion kuna. It's right, I repeat, Božidar Kalmeta when he says Ivo Sanader started fighting corruption because it gave USKOK and DORH enough material to prove to us that they could do their job. It won't be easy for them. Because who wants to be a Croatian whistle when the prize is not a million, but a beating, suspension or failure. It should not be forgotten that Sanader's right-hand man was Jadranka Kosor for ten years, as well as Bozidar Kalmeta behind whom she now stood takes responsibility for all the damage they have done in Croatia in all those years. This was the last chance for Prime Minister Kosor to show strength, seriousness, courage and authority, to distance himself from the corruption model created by her predecessor Ivo Sanader. After following Sanader's eye and jump, Prime Minister Kosor, guarding Minister Calmet, became twice responsible. A logical conclusion is made. Unless Mrs. Kosor requests Mr. Kalmeta's resignation, the resignation of Minister Calmeta is enough, as well as Prime Minister Kosor and the entire government. Even if they are not directly involved in corrupt actions, their political responsibility requires that they resign. The excuse that they didn't know that the corruption in which the people they chose to run the state-owned companies were merely proof that they were out of proportion to the functions they were acting. Croatian citizens deserve to be led by people who know, want and can ensure a better quality of life for everyone, not just HDZ sponsors and party officials. It's the only thing that does this government with Eve or the Adriatic to guard its chairs. You got a detailed list and an explanation in writing. During this debate with his colleagues, we will further describe each of our allegations as needed. Today's debate will show the Croatian public that not all politicians are alike. Some are in HDZ and HDZ in the coalition, remain in opposition. In addition, the HDZ government should be replaced as soon as possible in the interest of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45237	Ladies and gentlemen. The day after morning is known, so I expect a very dynamic, simplest debate today. But it takes nerves, too, you know, so I'm warning you about nerve storage. In fact, we were in a European Parliament the other day where, let me explain that a little bit is whether, where no one listened to anyone. There was a group of ten out there who talked while the speaker was here, there at the pay phone talking. He didn't mind, he kept going. And Mr. Jovanovic could speak because the MPs did not outvote him. He spoke clearly, it was heard and so it was fine to hear, of course it was. However, reminding the chairman would be very convincing that a few days ago the same representative and his colleagues were when storms and noises rose here that a man could not remain in this assembly that they intervened in that direction and silenced their colleagues. You didn't? Well, you can't even ask for it when it's much easier in this case. But I think and invite all MPs and MPs to behave properly, not to insult each other. Everything can be politically presented in the debate, without it being personal insult and something even worse. Please, I'm warning everyone by looking left, right, and into the center of this assembly. In order for it to be tolerable, we are, it was disputed whether it could at all be corrected by an incorrect quote when spoken on behalf of the club. Yes, no one has been able to prove until now that it cannot be based on the Rules of Procedure, so I am announcing for your nerves and my 22 incorrect, correcting the incorrect quote on the opening statement, and I will start with Mrs. Nevenko Marinovic who first reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45238	Thank you. Here I am correcting Mr Jovanovic's incorrect claim that the price per mile of highways built has increased multiple times. I really don't know Mr. Jovanovic that you or the signatories of the stock's interpretation compared. Fortunately, you only had a chance to open the one I'm going to indicate which one is comparable. The arguments say this: Bosiljevo II Josipdol, which opened in 2003 in the length of 27 km, was €6.73 million per km, and the Sjesanovac-Rača section, which opened in 2008 was €6.67 million per km. Cost reduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45239	Correction of Madam Representative Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45240	Thank you very much. Mr Jovanovic, in his opening statement, has actually cited a number of incorrect allegations, but I will correct only one here, and my colleague Marinović has already pointed out this, where Mr Jovanovic says that in the business of contracting highways in Croatia, prices are multiplely higher than market prices. Mr. Jovanovic, that's completely incorrect. I'm going to tell you here now some international comparisons of the prices of kilometers of highways in other countries. So it's a newly agreed price per km in Switzerland and France for 34m euros. In the Republic of Slovakia, the price per km is 32m euros. In the Republic of Hungary, 11m euros, and in the Republic of Croatia 7.9m euros per km. However, Mr. Jovanovic, when you talk about multiple price increases, then as deputy mayor of Rijeka, I urge you to question why the price of a pool in Cantrida in Rijeka has increased within 6 years from the initial 73 million kuna to 400 million kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45241	Please don't take more than two minutes. I'm gonna have to interrupt. Unfortunately, I can't turn it off when he's joining up. It's Mr. Representative Frano Matušić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45242	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it was not known whether a colleague Jovanovic was referring to another institution, because he mentioned a Mrs. Pokos here, so we didn't know what it was about. And you also told your colleague Jovanovic, speaking of political responsibility, that HDZ does not know what political responsibility is. HDZ certainly knows what political responsibility is and knows that it is best to check that responsibility and behavior in the elections. So we did it in the election, we won the local elections a few months ago. Just like we won the election in 2007. You understand? Except that you performed here in the manner of the best communist... So you were a state lawyer and a judge at the same time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today after this pay phone, you've best shown a sentence at the end of what your goal is. One by one... The government of the Republic of Croatia, despite the fact that you have no arguments, and the corruption and robbery that your people have been doing, we will talk today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we'll talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45243	Thank you. We have a correction. Please, Mr. Stjepan Kundić's correction. Please within the time frame.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45244	A colleague, Jovanovic, said at the beginning of the opening. She says there's no Madam Prime Minister for that because she might be ashamed of this topic. That's incorrect. Ms. Prime Minister, if you didn't know it, but the people of Croatia know it, is a very brave and highly moral person who insists on such discussions himself, and tells the public through the media that if it should last five days because if it should. Because this imaginatively Stalinist proposal of SDP and the hickey on HDZ will not pass because the path of the untrue horror.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45245	Correction, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45246	Thank you very much. I would like to correct the incorrect assumption where Mr Jovanovic found that in Croatia road construction works are carried out at multiple prices than they are marketable. Mr Jovanovic, the Croatian market is not closed, prices are auctioned in public tenders, international competitions, and you obviously do not know for your information, according to EUROSTAT, of 33 countries in Europe, Croatia is 31st, which means it is more favourable, i.e. it has lower labour prices than 30 countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45247	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45248	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It is an incorrect claim by Mr Jovanovic that the Prime Minister and her behaviour are irresponsible, as are ministers in the Croatian government. I would like to challenge this by the Prime Minister's determined struggle and zero tolerance to corruption and crime to do everything in order for all those who are possibly under suspicion of any misdemeanor to sanction and support the institutions to do so. I hope that institutions will also come up with all those corrupt acts done before the HDZ Government and that then Croatia will be fully resolved from those involved in corruption and crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45249	Correction, Mrs Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45250	Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd say in this political pamphlet of yours, colleague Jovanovic, you haven't made a single argument. It was really just one political conviction. And I will make the arguments that you make in your interpretation. You said that there was absolutely nothing invested in the Croatian railways and that Minister Kalmeta guaranteed it. And I'll confirm otherwise. From 2000 to 2003, the average annual investment in HZ was 647 million kuna, and imagine from 2004 to 2008 a billion 348 million kuna. 208% higher. I am a professor of Croatian, but I do count and read the tables.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45251	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45252	Well, here I would also look back at the price of the highway stock where Mr. Jovanovic said the price rose from $4 billion to $12 billion. She was already, one was a correction to the Six-man... and Posirjevo-Josip dol, and I will use another example, where Breznik Hum-Novi Marof, which opened in 2003, cost 6.6 billion euros and Vrbovac-Bjelovar in 2009, is 5.5 billion euros, down by 17%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's just not your data, you're wrong. I would also like to say, correct the allegations where you said that this government and the prime minister is responsible only for HDZ and that community, not for the entire community. I think all these examples are obvious proof that that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45253	Correction Mr. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45254	Thank you very much. Well, here I would also correct Mr. Jovanovic's incorrect quote when he talks about the cost of a mile of highways where he claims it costs between $4m and $12m. If he said dollars, then his claim really refutes everything they're accusing us of, because if he's speaking in dollars, then it's cheaper than we've built a road in the euro. So, Mr Jovanovic, it is evident that your exposure does not correspond to the actual state, and that the average cost of building the highway is 7.9m euros. And over the past year, six million and 750 thousand euros. Don't deceive the public, because we have accurate data unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45255	And correction Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45256	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Jovanovic, HAC is no HDZ ATM, no matter how insensitive your accusations are as an automatic. You called the prime minister and said the budget was passed irresponsiblely. From the social point of view, economical, from education, from the defender's point of view, it was only possible to bring this kind of budget and it is not irresponsible at all. We believe the prime minister. The public trusts the prime minister. I'm convinced you believe the prime minister, too. I'm convinced. Why don't people trust politicians? Well, just for this very reason. You went out, accused, convicted without any argument. So it ruins the credibility of Croatian politicians. On the other hand, whoever is irresponsible, was in Croatian roads, anywhere appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45257	Thank you. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45258	Here I am correcting the quote by my colleague Jovanovic, who accuses the minister of train accidents, especially Rudin's accident, I would recommend simply asking his political mentor Slavko Linic who has obtained 8 tilt trains, inadequate for the old Lika railway, and should be said at twice the price, with the loss of another 120 million kuna domestic affairs and so on and again mentioning before the accident a normal train passed without consequences. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45259	Thank you. Mr. Boris Kunst, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45260	Well, counterpart Jovanovic incorrectly stated that the state's crisis was currently, only if he thought and called the president of the Republic who was on his way out, but I must say that in this section he cited he did not specify any concrete example, no concrete reason why he even accused the minister of traffic and connections, he said this about corrupt and criminal activities, but he had no concrete evidence to make. These were all assumptions of flat-rate speculation, so you know colleague Jovanovic while others paint tunnels, don't paint the Croatian public, and I think you were all best told when you said you should change this government, it is basically your animosity towards power rather than the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45261	Thank you. Mr. Representative Gary Capelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45262	Dear President, I'd like to correct more incorrect allegations, but the important thing is that Mr. Jovanovic says that citizens don't trust politicians, so normally they don't, and he's exactly one of those who encourages it. And that is to call everyone at the state level, but forgets that in the past 4 years from 2005 to 2008, over 130 million kunas of strictly dedicated funds have been spent in the city of Rijeka, which is the findings of the audit, and that is very clear. He's with that river he's boasting about. So let him still boast about the River. Secondly, there are double criteria that at the state level seek the programming council, television and similar things, and on channel RI says trust me on the honorary word that I don't need the programming council, but believe me. Well, so much for your faith.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45263	Thank you. He reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure by Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45264	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, it is better to intervene in time and warn the MPs that the correction of the incorrect quote is used in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here, what the gentleman has now corrected, which he has corrected and in what way, which my quote has corrected, let him say what he has corrected. In order for this debate to take place today, Article 209 warn MPs to use the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the way it is imagined.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45265	Mr. Representative, I'm going to warn any agent who doesn't say I'm correcting an incorrect allegation. As is the tradition in this House, so if they were credible and they made the same remark to the representatives of their club, then I could accept it. So selective and always somewhere else to look and not around. I don't accept that. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin's correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45266	Here's me, Mr. President, two letters to say. I am correcting a general allegations of co-worker Jovanovic's conclusion, although the fire on him broke, he spoke on behalf of 32 people, and then not all of his opinions, it's not just him. Correction of the allegations that the government is incompetent, that's not true. It may be an opinion but there is no evidence of a claim, I do not dispute him with such an opinion, but there are other opinions and most other opinions are different from his opinions. And then it should be that other most of the other ones are true than that truth. It's a little bit like this to show how relevant what he said is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45267	Obviously, in this case, Mr. Jerko Roshin admitted to correcting his opinion. He corrected an opinion he doesn't think is right. Now, you see, the position of the chairman at these sessions and I argue over 90% is this sort of correction of the quote on both sides and on the other and third sides, so please do not raise for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because what I have said is a way of correcting incorrect allegations, but rather a tradition, thus obtaining one right in the Croatian Parliament, which should be corrected by amending the Rules of Procedure and precisely specify what is the correcting of the incorrect quote. So please don't prolong this debate by lifting, because I'm going to have to when you guys do it often, maybe cause the kind of reactions I caused maybe 15 days ago, but I don't know how else to run this House. Thank you. It's Madam Representative Anna Lovrin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, MP Jovanovic said that the zero tolerance rate spoken by Prime Minister Kosor is just a dead letter on paper and is only valid for small fish. So, this is incorrect, because a number of amendments to the law in the area of criminal law are open opportunities and then, in practice and implemented in the last two years, a number of procedures, criminal proceedings in the corruption area, so 170 unlawful verdicts, against high-ranking state officials, university professors, judges, state attorneys, leaders of public institutions, and in the recent recent action "Dubai", where the conviction is ineligible to 4 years, has been seized by the application of an institute of extended confiscation of the property benefit of 3 million kuna, and if Mr Jovanovic thinks they are small fishes, I do not think they are small fish, and another 20 million kunas have been seized.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45269	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilic Vardic's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45270	Thank you very much. A colleague, Jovanovic, said, quotes: "Minister Kalmeta is guilty among other things of frequent train accidents", which is simply not true. As far as I know, the minister does not drive a train, he was also not a member of the government at the time of obtaining 8 tilt trains by direct credit agreement and without any justification study already spoken of by his colleague Markovanovic. And for this failed investment of an incompetent management ei policy your party's SDP has led, no one has ever responded. My colleague, you would be much more credible if you came from yourself even though in the debate you said that what is worth to Mrs. Ana Stavenić Rukavina is not also valid for Minister Kalmet. Listen to what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45271	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Salapic, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct Mr Jovanovic's incorrect allegations when it comes to the question of "Croatian Post" that there is no strategy for the development of "Croatian Post". Mr Jovanovic The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a strategy for the development of the postal services market in the Republic of Croatia on 19 March 2008 and the Croatian Post Office adopted a strategic plan for the development of the "Croatian Post". What needs to be highlighted for the safety of 11000 300 employees in "Croatian Post", "Croatian Post" is one of the few public companies that have achieved an operating profit of more than 138 million kuna in this crisis year. Because of the 11 thousand 300 security workers of the Croatian Post Office and their families here, all they need to tell is the truth, and the truth is clear and all we need to do is read the materials and the key arguments well. There is a strategy and strategy leading the security of workers and jobs in the Croatian Post Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45273	Thank you. Mrs. Carmela Caparin's correction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is incorrect that this ministry did not invest in the development of the railway and that the development was completely halted, and that the investment cycle in the Croatian Railways was the best way to say the funds invested in the construction. And I'm sorry that the colleague in his presentation did not state any of the figures in order to correct and prove something that is incorrect for this ministry. So I say, from 2000 to 2003, a total of €368 million was invested in infrastructure, and from 2004 to 2008. Four thousand 130 million, so 300 percent higher. It is pointed out that from 2000 to 2003, a 173 km railway was remounted, and for 2004 to 2008. Three hundred and forty-nine miles. By 2003, a total of 368 has been invested in the infrastructure and I repeat, and from 2004 to 2008. Four thousand 130 million kuna, so 300 percent higher. I'll have a chance to make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45275	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45276	Thank you. I am correcting the quote of his counterpart Jovanovic, who said the situation and business in the "Croatian Post Offices" is at the lowest possible level and which he has taken the company as an example of irrational behaviour, and is most often found by his claims in the media. These same media outlets say that this information is not correct. In today's number of weeks, it is said and lists "Croatian Post" as the best company in Croatia, and I quote for the top man: "I illuminated face to state enterprises." The media says your quote isn't correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45277	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll fix the quote right away. Mr Jovanovic said on behalf of the SDP club that the government is not fighting corruption. It's just not true. All these laws that this Parliament passed only in the first half of this year, so that the State's Attorney's Office, USKOK and police could operate, prove that the Croatian government is fighting corruption. And I'd like to ask you to step out for the pay phone one more time and give at least one argument against our Minister Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45279	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45280	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Jovanovic often mentioned the word responsibility, command responsibility, political responsibility and said that the government and ministers of HDZ do not understand the concept of responsibility. That's completely incorrect. All HDZ governments have always been, are and will be responsible for Croatia, and that is why we have been rewarded in all elections so far. Or would you and the people have changed? Your debate convinced us nothing, but let me help you. It would be far more credible if you could schedule a seminar on corruption that would be on the subject of "Rječka Banka". I suppose your party colleagues, perhaps Obersnel and Linic, would help you with that and would be far more convincing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45281	Correction, Mr. Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45282	Mr. President to correct everything that is wrong should take a few days, and I'll just fix one thing. He says Mr. Calmeta created a climate for the spread of crime. What are you, Mr. Meteorologist, and you're a climate? Which is not true, however, Mr Jovanovic read a simple political pamphlet, not to say something similar to a manifesto, but he should first clean up in his yard. Clean up in the river, and I'll just give you a few examples. I'm just going to add that with everything said, I think it's compromised and the body on which it's headed because nothing regulated has said against Mr. Calmeta, so I'm going to show only an example in Rijeka where the city of Rijeka doesn't appear in a single land tender that costs 16,000 euros to rent the same land after 5 days, 16 million euros, so that after 5 days, the same land will be rented for 15 years. The pool that started with 73 million kunas ended up on 400 million kunas. Well, one parking spot in a 40,000-euro garage, I don't think I'm going to invite anyone as invited these days, but I think USCOD should stop by there.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45283	Thank you, thank you. On behalf of the government, Mr Darko Milinovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health and Social Care will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45284	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I share the opinion of those who are disappointed with me, I would say Mr. Jovanovic's political pamphlet. If I were a teacher, I'd say, "Sit down one. Another unsuccessful attempt to destabilise the ruling coalition." ... This is what I have to say here and I plead to the Parliament as Vice-President of the Government that today's debate really serves to make arguments creating an additional anti-corruption climate in the Republic of Croatia, not an anti-entrepreneurship climate as you wish. [[Applause]] By politicizing, by politicizing and dressing party uniforms, we create the anti-entrepreneurship climate in the Republic of Croatia the same way you created in 2001. And it's dangerous for the Republic of Croatia, it's dangerous for the Republic of Croatia. In this way, by creating an anti-enterprise climate, by politicizing affairs by withdrawing party uniforms from individual affairs, I will repeat what Prime Minister Sanader has said often. Any corruption, any affair, crime has no political omens. I have to tell you "De Mortuis niil you're not Bene" about the dead just fine. And why am I saying that? Because I want to be here, and I'm going to mention here the late Prime Minister Ivica Racan. But you're responsible for that. The Croatian public, when you said the SDP government reacted in certain affairs and mentioned Baxter. For the sake of the Croatian public, I must say why the 23-year-old Baxter affair happened. You know why? 2001. The SDP has abolished as you said the HDZ front in the health ministry abolished the 24-hour watch. The first death was Friday. Until Monday, unfortunately, 23. You know why? Because you suspended the 24-hour duty and some of the assistants at the Ministry of Health went skiing while people died in the Republic of Croatia. And you know what today is? In 15 minutes, all suspicious products in hospitals are removed and can't come to this. So don't mention Baxter. What about the vaccine? You, like when you came from your vacation, wanted to show the Croatian nation how you had planned, so you said the vaccine was imported unregistered. So the entire Croatian public saw it. I'm asking nicely yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45285	You don't need to pray, you can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45286	I know the truth hurts. One more vaccine, I urge everyone in the Parliament to be vaccinated against a new flu. 100 million people worldwide have been vaccinated without any reported, no severe side effects. Polls. It's clear to me why you've come across the HDZ government and the coalition partners so adrenaline-filled. So you yourself said a month ago in the current hour, he can't wait for this government to fall, because the SDP assured me and promised me the post of minister. Well, that's yours. You said it yourself. Did I say that? Well, that's your motive. And as for ladies and gentlemen, the fall of this government, so continue to live in conviction. According to the polls, you're in power. Because before the last parliamentary elections, 10% of the polls were conducted by the SDP, but parliamentary elections made something else. I wouldn't really talk about the price of the roads, because it's going to be said by Minister Calmeta and the international institutions who talked about the price of the road, but I'm going to leave it to Minister Calmeti. So the only relevant poll is the election. But the polls you're talking about, why don't you mention that in the last two months, this government has gained a lot of popularity and credibility just fighting corruption. We from the ruling coalition and government will not allow the SDP or anyone in Croatia to be the first to fight corruption. We are ladies and gentlemen who have a responsibility, we have political responsibilities and we are the ones who, regardless of the name and name, will clear all affairs in Croatia. Look and I want to address the ruling coalition. Where's our strength? So there was no government transfer, so the ruling coalition is now in opposition, so the SDP came in and cleared up all affairs. It's not. That's our strength. We're in power, we're clearing up affairs, and we're going to win the 2011 election by anti-corruption fight. And that's why I'm pleading that during this debate there's not too much politicizing. I don't know SDP politicisation wants to dull the edge of the fight against corruption, so there's a party uniform in all parties, no party is excluded from possible affairs. Lenac, Rijeka Bank. Do you know what you've done, where you've been, you've finished medical school you haven't worked for a minute as a doctor. But it doesn't matter. You worked in the pharmaceutical industry. Do you know what the SDP government did, took away the control package for Croatia by selling Pliva shares. Some say you influenced it, but I don't believe it. I believe that's not true. And that is why by politicizing today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware in this House to beat the edge of the fight against corruption. This government has produced an anti-corruption spirit in the Republic of Croatia. And just a few measures. Mrs. Pusic, you can stay as long as you want. Anti-corruption measures in terms of the strategy of the anti-corruption action plan, jumping courts, amendments to the Penal Code are just some of the anti-corruption measures that are due to this coalition government. One more time. There has been no over-the-counter political scene in Croatia, so HDZ and a coalition partner went into opposition, so you came and resolved various affairs. We are you and another message to the Croatian public. The zero degree of tolerance is the password of this government. With this, it will go to the 2011 elections. Well, when you mention the polls. The last most relevant poll six months ago happened. You didn't go well on her. It was a local choice. So the minister you're calling whose shift you're looking for, and Baxter then needed the prime minister and the entire government to resign, but you sacrificed Professor Ana Stavevic Rukavina. Sacrifice. Because that government has abolished 24 hours of duty. But the latest poll is relevant where people recognize who's fighting corruption and whether someone's in some kind of corruption affair. Because the latest poll, where Minister Kalmeta headed the list for the city of Zadar and headed the county list, said she trusted him with 60 large enormous, unreachable ones in Zadar, Zadar County. Why would I bring that up? Is Minister Calmeta from there. There we could best assess whether Minister Kalmeta is the best anti-corruption fighter. That's where he got 65% of the support points for his program. But not just that. We know that the Ministry of Minister Kalmeta has also developed an anti-corruption programme for all public enterprises and that it is the minister responsible for detecting many affairs, including in the Croatian Railways. We're getting backup. Here is Hillary Clinton, from yesterday's rally, sent a clear message to President Kosor, supporting everything this government is doing both in the European Union and in the fight against corruption. We are also getting support as you know the European Union, the whole world, the United States. And that's why we're looking for support, consensus. Croatia was three times in a situation where it needed consensus. It's '91. when the first Croatian president called for reconciliation because without this consensus, without that community, without that courage would not have today's Croatian state. It is the first consensus in Croatia. The second consensus and should be thanked in front of the Croatian government to all political entities, a consensus in the accession of Croatia to the European Union. But let's be honest and let's say and we need a third consensus, and that's the fight against corruption without politicizing, without dressing up party uniforms with certain corruption affairs, because that's exactly the kind of politicisation and this is exactly the way the debate is going to blow away the edge of the fight against corruption. But we will not allow this government along with the coalition partners. And that's why I want to point out once again the zero tolerance rate for corruption and that's the password of this government. You mentioned over a dozen times to the Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor, that he wasn't here. It is also today in an important meeting, an important event in Sibenik County where it opens up about 15m euros worth of economic content. And because of such economic content, I call for further debate on the confidence of the vote of mistrust that you asked for, and the government, based on arguments, facts and indicators, rejected your request yesterday. And that this debate once again demonstrates the determination that everyone recognises in Europe and the world only not the SDP, that this government in the last few months, and even before the first in the column, is the first in line to fight corruption. And in order not to beat the blade here, I pray once again, and the ruling coalition, and especially the SDP, we will not politicize you, and the creamworth I did not afford, we have left Minister Calmeti around the price of the road and around the stock and about the mileage that was built. Minister Kalmeta will, of course, as we agreed these days without politicizing facts, give the Croatian public an insight into what we have done in the last few years in the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia. It is time for ladies and gentlemen to take another small step, to be our Croatian, national interest above party interests and to make another consensus that is very important for the Republic of Croatia, which is a consensus in the fight against corruption. There's no one who's not touching. There is no one that will be preserved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia along with its coalition partners if it is in any way or in any way hidden or hidden if it is involved in any of the affairs in the Republic of Croatia. It is our duty both to the Croatian defenders and those who have laid an altar, to live on the altar of the Croatian homeland, and that is one of the things we owe them. This government is determined to do so. The government is calling on all political entities and there is no political party where there have been no specific corruption affairs in the past 20 years. But let's leave the color of the party uniform. I call once again on the consensus of Croatian citizens, all in the Republic of Croatia, to fight corruption because it is not only in our country. It's all over the place, and we're doing our best to keep it as low as possible. And I think that's what citizens expect of us to see as little corruption and such affairs as possible in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45287	Thank you. We've got correction seven. Still, few are improving in this regard. The first is Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45288	Thank you. It is not true that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, by asking this question, the SDP creates an anti-entrepreneurship spirit. Moreover, entrepreneurs are one of the greatest victims of corrupt activities. We mean honest entrepreneurs. According to this logic, the European Commission is creating an anti-entrepreneurship spirit in Croatia, citing corruption in Croatia as the main problem. 80% of Croatian citizens, by you, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, are creating an anti-entrepreneurship spirit, because it claims to live in a corrupt state, and I ask you when you will finally resolve the Brodosplit affair or you will claim that I am creating an anti-entrepreneurship spirit by asking you this, and I will not ask you now until you resolve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45289	You asked, and you won't ask him. Okay, that's good, too. Well, it's all right, I don't mind. Just ask. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45290	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I will correct two incorrect allegations from Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The first allegation is that SDP promotes an anti-enterprise climate and that SDP actually does not have zero tolerance in the fight against corruption. So, I am proud to point out and I will repeat this every time today when someone calls the city of Rijeka that the city of Rijeka is estimated by GONG and the survey of GONGA and Transparency International Croatia is the most transparent city in the Republic of Croatia.../ The speaker turned off and back on.... anti-corruption is transparency and responsibility. .../ The speaker has been turned off and re-enabled.....see Rijeka and there will be less corruption in Croatia. Another incorrect quote the gentleman said I didn't work for a day in health care. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, I worked for 4 years on emergency care and 2 years in Rijeka and 1 year in Krk and spent a year in the Croatian Army's personnel in the trenches. After that, I didn't get a job at the hospital just because my name was Jovanovic and I was in the SDP. Yes, yes, gentlemen. The best medical school student in Rijeka, the best student didn't get a job in Rijeka because HDZ's director didn't give it to him. It's hard to listen to the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45291	Thank you very much. This was indeed the correcting of an incorrect allegation. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. And I'll add one more thing. Here in this assembly are the three MPs who were in the first meeting of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Seks, Mr. Jovanovic and I, here. So, don't, I don't like to disqualify anyone you know, so let's be tolerant, let's be reasonable, and this debate will end the way it ends, and we know how it ends. Thank you. Gordan Maras, correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45292	Thank you very much. I would have corrected two incorrect allegations. The first is that the SDP encourages an anti-enterprise climate, which is exactly the opposite, as the highest growth rates of the Croatian economy were right during the SDP coalition government. And another incorrect allegation is that the SDP as abandoned by the steering... "Plive." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Milinovic seemed to have forgotten what happened after the opera in Verona, when former Prime Minister Sanader arranged to sell Pliva to a company that unfortunately ruined Pliva. And finally another thing, Mr. Milinovic, you told him that polls are the most relevant elections and I'm asking you now, will you call early elections when HDZ candidate doesn't get into the second round of presidential elections?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45293	You can't be a prophet. Whoever wants to be a prophet will only succeed in his own village, you know, no one has become a prophet. Now, we've got more, let's be patient, we've got another correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45294	When you speak of the prophets, yet a prophet came upon his own. But okay, let's just leave it. The minister says we're clearing up affairs, we're fighting corruption, and some ministers are still in charge of detecting affairs. Absolutely incorrect, because you're unfortunately creating them, you're trying to cover them up with the impression that you're doing something. And you see this non-human has outlived Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. So this outlived Eve... This has politically outlived Ivo Sanader, and how things... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] He'll outlive Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45295	Thank you very much. Please, the correction is being included, and this play is right? It is. Because please, don't say in the absence of arguments that man is a prankster or vice versa. Don't, let's let everyone say their... Please, Mr. Rajko Ostojić, also correcting the incorrect allegations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45296	Correction of incorrect allegations, there are 31, so I'll try at least a few 31. Unfortunately, the Minister of Health, the height of his tone, has no power of argument at the moment, can only be hurt by our hearing aid. He's right, Minister. The poll is the most important. By that, Mr. Minister, after a corruption poll, we are more corrupt this year than in 2008, more corrupt than in 2007. As far as we're concerned, Mr. Secretary, if this works out and reduces corruption, give us a list of defense attorneys, a public list of defense attorneys. And in the end, someone said this was like an ATM. It seems to me that for some, for some, for some, not for a party, for some, just for some persons might be better cash and cary, not ATM cash and cary but in the opposite direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45297	Thank you. Correction Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45298	I'm correcting Mr. Milinovic's allegations that today, corruption is trying to draw a party uniform here. No, Mr. Minister, everyone in this group of prominent businessmen in Remetec who are fully represented by football has long been drawn by the HDZ party uniform. And as for your call for vaccination, no thank you. I've heard and believed those who say it's less dangerous to shake than to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45299	Thank you. And Mr. Nenad Stazic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45300	You tell the ministers that you are clearing up affairs and that the government is determined to fight corruption. Well, that's what we saw. If not on another example, then for example, Rončević, how does he clean up these affairs? Well, you pushed your hand into the fire for Ronchevich. So today in an attempt to talk about affairs here, you're screaming at this House like you're at a HDZ convention when you choose your leadership.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45301	Thank you. Let's be tolerated maximum at all. Let's be patient, but I'm warning you, it shouldn't be offended like that, but obviously there's no response to that. So let's move on. Ten minutes, Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45302	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me, too, in these 10 minutes, clear that I can't say everything I have to say, but fortunately, I have the right to answer, so today I'm going to call again and I'm not going to answer any questions. I told both yesterday and the media that today, on the basis of the arguments, under the law, I would answer all the questions, without being overly politicized, even though the Assembly is clear where the political battle is being fought. I don't mean to discuss it this way today, but I'm thinking of discussing it as I've already told the facts and arguments. I wrote, and you all got one material that has over 30 pages, I could have another 30, but here I thought it was appropriate that it was serious enough and justified to answer these, this proposal from the SDP gentlemen who are looking for my recall, or my shift. So, I'm going to start with what's already been said and that's the fact that this government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia headed by President Jadranka Kosor, is expressing an unequivocal political will in the fight against corruption. And most importantly, that political will is fully visible in concrete action. We are witnessing the process of detecting various acts, illegalities etc., and that is what is important is that this political will and all the assumptions that have been made in this regard and that today are being done to act and act very seriously. It also recognises and accepts the European Commission and that is the fact. Furthermore, what I find important to say is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is constantly insisting on the legitimate, independent and independent work of all state services and public institutions, thus improving one environment of work without any non-transparent influence of politics beyond the authority, because any involvement of politics, or influence beyond power, is not in line with the strategic commitment of this Government, on the full depolitisation of all or operational affairs. Dearly respected MPs, only by such an approach is possible and that is a fact and that is the basis for the laws to apply to all equally. And that is why I believe that the political responsibility of the minister cannot therefore be sought because of any or any specific, however you will, failure, corruption or other unfair actions of persons at the operational level. This way and such philosophy, and such a setting of things would allow all those who are responsible under the law for their concrete actions to hide behind political responsibility. Therefore, someone there at what job down there can do something has political responsibility for the top one, it can be a minister, it can be any other leader and political parties, etc. And neither can the leader of the political party, for example, the SDP, be responsible for all its representatives, all its members, etc., if possible. If that were the case, then the rule of law would be suspended and the opposite effect would be achieved and that would be the interference of politics in areas where politics must not be, because institutions must work independently under the law, because the law gives responsibility, but the law gives power to apologize, but also gives responsibility. It is true that the Minister and Ministers are participating, for a short time, because as you know Mrs Kosor has proposed and it was in the government, that future members of the Supervisory Board will be elected through a public tender, but so far ministers are involved in the work of companies, either as a assembly or as a supervisory board. But the law on commercial societies has made it clear, it clearly states what powers both the Assembly and the members of the supervisory boards can and can only work within their powers, so of a strategic nature, and the operational management of the company is in the sole jurisdiction of the administration, and says the Law cannot be transposed to the Supervisory Board or to the Assembly. Then, not to spread my thesis now, there is a law on public procurement that defines and prescribes the concession of works and services, you all know it well because ultimately this Parliament has passed that law. If, in addition to this Act, you have the law, if we are already talking about the construction of spatial planning and construction, which again defines very precise responsibility and obligations, design responsibility, responsibility of the project auditor, responsibility of the contractors, independent supervisory board, engineers, etc., there is a law that precisely defines authority and responsibility, and it would not be good if everyone were responsible for what or if someone were responsible for what is not in his power. So, Croatia is a legal state, Croatia is a state that has brought all its legislation into line with the legislation of the European Union and we have nothing but to act in accordance with the law, legal powers and also legal responsibilities. True, despite all this, dear and respected representatives, despite all this happening, have been, unfortunately, likely to continue to take place illegalities, corrupt activities, etc. And no one hides it, no one escapes from it, but the fact is that they are being discovered, the fact is that they are being sanctioned and the fact is that so far, a lot of concrete things have been done in that area, it's a fact and we can't run from it, dear friends. Besides, you're calling me for corruption at HH. The public knows dear friends, institutions know, you know, Mr. Jovanovic because you were told on the Committee, that I was the one who initiated... So, you can't exactly call me for everything, but for some things I should have been commended for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, answer some questions that in your memo or in your search for my shift that say, for example, “settled tenders. ” Now, what am I gonna do? Am I gonna hang up or do I have a little more? I mean to refer to the charge of setting up the competition, the charge of "artificial price raising", "Prices in road construction", employment, etc. I want to, and I want to answer all the questions, but I've got a light on, but here I'm going to try and work something out. When we talk about these alleged contests, look. I have previously said that the procurement procedures are implemented in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, in addition to all those investments funded by the European banks, you know that, some of you who were in the Government, you know it well, are implemented by strict rules of these European Investment Banks and in accordance with their procedures. In addition, by means of an international competition, the selection of consultants. This consultant must give prior to each procedure non-rejections, must give prior consent to every detail of that contract and follow it all the way to the end. For example, consultants. Here's one piece of information, so far they've never had significant objections or negative assessments. And here's another information, the HAC launched a total of 3 thousand 913 procurement procedures, i.e. an average of 652 procurement procedures per year, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Of all these 3 000 913 procurement proceedings, 144 complaints or 3.6% were lodged, and of 144 complaints, the State Commission adopted 53 complaints or 1.35% for the control of the procurement procedure. Besides, dear friends, there's a business audit. I will also tell you, the State Audit Office is conducting a regular audit report on the basis of the Law on State Audit. In 2004 and 2005, they received an unconditional report from the State Audit. In 2007, they received a conditional opinion with 2 small shortcomings. Not to say that next year, the Assembly appoints an authorised external auditor, so there has never been any objections that the Croatian highways had and have consistently and reaffirmed the ISO standards. What am I saying? That the above is seen as one modern and orderly company, but the fact is that I don't run away from it, that even in the most sophisticated systems dear friends have and are known to have criminal activities. Well, you've also witnessed in some major companies in Europe, companies that are world-famous, that there have been huge affairs, millions of damages, etc., but it's been discovered and processed. So it's important to discover and process things. I've listed this for the reason that through this few data we can still see that it's a serious company that confirms international...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45303	Okay, thank you, Mr. Minister, you'll have your chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45304	I'll have a chance later. I thank you, I will continue with my presentations and answers to every question later.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45305	Thank you. Here, we have corrections to incorrect allegations. Mrs. Vesna Pusic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45306	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister Kalmeta said that if the minister were politically responsible for his portfolio it would release the responsibilities of those at lower levels. That's not true, Mr. Minister. In fact, those at lower levels are criminally responsible, not politically, and the minister is politically responsible, and perhaps criminally, but it is not for the Parliament to decide. I remind you of Article 114. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, paragraph 2 of the President and members of the Government are jointly responsible for decisions taken by the Government and are personally responsible for their field of work. So, you as Minister under the Constitution are personally responsible for your field of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45307	We have a further correction, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45308	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect quote of Minister Calmeta, who spoke of political responsibility, saying that it was not good for someone to answer for something that someone in his portfolio had done. That's an incorrect allegation, because that's why the minister denied himself. Namely, in the summer of this year, he resigned because of train slips from the tracks even though his responsibilities were not in it and that is why the prime minister did not accept it. And now he didn't resign just because he might be afraid that the prime minister would accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45309	It's legitimate to think. Mr. Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45310	I am correcting Minister Calmeta's incorrect allegations of the lack of political command responsibility for the minister. However, the minister's responsibility for the failure of the system and corruption in its portfolio certainly exists. Moreover, she followed the government’s collective responsibility, that is, what the English call cabinet collective responsibility. So, the government's collective responsibility is a constitutional convention, i.e. a collective responsibility agreement in the Government based on the Westminister system. So we wonder why the UK is holding us back in the accession negotiations when we open the chapter on the judiciary, and it's likely to stay that way. So it is clear to everyone that the Westminister system has become an international acquis deeply embedded in EU law and practice, as well as in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and is invented in the UK, and therefore only Minister Kalmeta claims that it cannot be applied in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45311	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45312	Thank you. It is an incorrect quote by Minister Calmeta that he would be relieved of all responsibility, so as he said what the law defines jurisdiction and for which one is responsible and that it would be the opposite effect, if he were to answer to the exculpatory effect of these others. This is about political responsibility, as has already been pointed out. If we went with your logic, we would abolish the Institute of Political Responsibility and thus say goodbye to democracy in Croatia, introduce self-government, authority and autocratic management in which those who have the most important functions in the country are not responsible for anything. What logic is that? I can't understand it at all, but surely it's not democratic logic, it's the logic of denying democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45313	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45314	I support the Minister's insistence to discuss the facts. So when the minister says the law is implemented in accordance with public procurement and it's about modern and orderly companies, it just doesn't stand. Because if the law really were implemented in accordance with the law on public procurement according to what it says then it wouldn't happen, here's the fact that I'm saying that on the Zagreb-Rijeka highway one consortium gets jobs, and then this same consortium and certain jobs gives. On Kivovica-Ostrovica, let's say "Granita" who participated in a public competition. On the Ostrovica-Vrata section, "Subterri" gives "Porn Croatia" and "Testama Varazdin" shares and "Kupjak" shares "Metrostava" and "Vrbovska" shares. I don't even mention that there was a construction fund that got jobs on all the shares, even though it wasn't mentioned anywhere in the tender documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45315	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to a club debate. The first club is IDS and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45316	Your Honor, Mr. President, Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I liked one remark from President Bebić that we should try to be as correct as possible in that performance. In Istria, it's a beautiful saying, "That's an ugly thing to say to a pretty person." But you also don't need to hide problems, you don't need to hide corruption behind nice words behind some patriotic phrases. And I personally think that these discussions do not melt the fight against corruption, but they send one message to those who are prone to such behaviour that they will not be untouchable in this country. I think the fight against thieves is simply a struggle of national interest or, by that "let's go, let's not give Croatia". For everything that's going on safely in Mr. Calmeta's ministry, Kalmeta is certainly not guilty. But he's responsible for a lot of things. I don't want to talk about the post office, I don't want to talk about the railway, I don't want to talk about Jadrolinia, I don't want to talk about that district control centre in Zagreb, which recently was 40 million dollars, I don't want to talk about anyone's drivers, I don't want to talk about the punishment, but what's going on in Croatian highways in Croatian highways, I'd say when it comes to price-setting is something that simply offends common sense. And I'd like to be denied by someone later on with those prices. One information, for example. The Velika Gorica road towards Sisak costs cca 178 million kuna per km, and the price achieved by ours from that consortium built through Montenegro is approximately 110 million kuna per km. Of course, these companies finance the road in Montenegro, and in Croatia all roads are normally financed by the Croatian state. In the last 10 years, when it comes to road construction, I am truly willing to admit it publicly, I dare say a world miracle. Here's how I got this material, the government's answer, so here's what it says between 2004 and 2009. Croatian highways have finished and left 413km of new highways on the market. Since the start of its work, a total of €3.8 billion has been invested in the six-year highway period, an average of €4 billion per year, mostly in the construction of new shares. Croatian highway d.o.o. in the 100th year of 2004 to date, more than €7.7 billion of credit liabilities mainly incurred during the previous period, etc., etc. So 20 and so many billion kunas. I don't know which other European countries built in that period, say the same number of highways, but I have the impression that our Croatian highways were the most expensive in Europe on a regular basis. I don't know maybe I'm wrong, let the minister just tell us that it's been moving for about the last 10 years or nine years. So I repeat once again that it doesn't make sense that one road from Sisak to Velika Gorica costs for example. Twice as much as that road from Boka or I don't know where it comes from from Kotor up to the Serbian border through Montenegro. Secondly, how much did that mile of highway cost at the start of Mr. Calmeta's term and what it costs today? Some say that this ratio is 1:2, others say it's 1:4, and from this government report, and I read it, just before we got it on the bench, we just don't see it. Or the figure some say of 4m euros for an estimated kilometer can grow to as much as 17m euros. And that's exactly what I think was the fuse for why this famous European anti-corruption agency got involved in this area. Europe financed our roads, but they couldn't let the money go into private pockets, that for something that wasn't clearly earned or done. I guess the best example is this last thing that happens to those tunnels. However, I dare say that the painting of these tunnels is a small matter which now deals with the State's Attorney's Office and has to deal with the State's Attorney's Office, and what a huge thing it is, say, highways, tunnels or anything else that goes into the building. We must also admit that our builders did great things. There you go, for example. One detour around the river. I dare say that such a detour wouldn't embarrass Monte Carlo. Now, was it supposed to be that luxuriant? Now that's a matter of some other judgment. But I didn't come here to talk about those miles and those lengths of the highway, so I'm going to try to put it that way to politics. So, in the Croatian highways in the Croatian roads, in Jadrolinia, in railways, district flight controls took place and some of the biggest affairs in the Republic of Croatia took place. So what now? I am convinced, it is clear that it should prove that part of that money, which will normally be proved by someone else, has been transferred to some private accounts, not only by state secretaries who have been removed, imprisoned or where they are, not only by those directors, president or members of the administration, but I suppose that went into the pockets of some ministers, prime ministers, which I know who I don't. We don't even know today why the former prime minister stepped down, we read that messages are being sent to part of the HDZ that Vidosevic, Primorac, Bandic should not be called. Why? Because some people hope that some opportunities in the country will be preserved, not changed. We see what happens that capital literally chooses, perhaps for the first time in the history of this country people to some functions. The money chooses those people, the media choose the president, and the story won't stop there, and the real chalice will happen right after the presidential election. I call on the prime minister, I call for early elections, but I think that message I spoke about earlier was sent by President Kosor, and some within HDZ, and I think that President Mesic has taken on himself another defence of Croatian institutions. But let's let the INA go now, these are the roads, or this is one other resort. In that context, it is clear that I am following this case. The state's attorney's office will see if the tunnel could paint 50% cheaper, expensive, I don't know. And I'm actually following something else. Which means, for example, Minister Calmeta's message that corruption was first fought by the former prime minister, that someone had 10, say, terms of office. For Zadar again will not change, and again when I look at the gross social product of Zadar County I see that it is about the same as Slavonian Countys etc. Zadar's something else. And that's actually the point. It's her or us or them. We're the ones who live on the job. They are the ones who simply want to arrest the whole of Croatia and who are ready for themselves, I do not know how to subdue Croatia to my own interests. Now, what will you do after this debate, Mrs. Kosor, whether everything will leave to the judiciary or appeal to that one moral, political responsibility or someone through some ministers actually protects themselves. I'm asking or I'm thinking normally, I'm not thinking absolutely of Mrs. Kosor, I'm thinking of the former prime minister, let's just say I'm completely open not to get away with it. And that's something in my court that will mark 2010. So, with the economic reality, with the strikes, I'm afraid the government will roll the streets. What will mark next year can be one struggle for power. This SDP request that we're talking about here today I agree that someone should be held responsible, political, political, like this. I guess it's somebody's fault. Okay, someone's gonna say it's got to be determined by a competent state attorney, courts and something like that. But I don't think in one orderly state it would be possible for all of this to happen in the last months in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia, that's my court, you can deny me is literally robbed. Neither Vienna nor Rome, nor Pest, nor Belgrade must have robbed Croatia as much as our best sons robbed her. Clearly the best under quotes, but I guess as we used to defend ourselves from Vienna and from Pest and from Rome and from Belgrade, so I guess we should know and defend ourselves from thieves. I know it won't be easy, but it'll have to go. And why isn't it going easy? Because some have money, they have power, they have media, they pay. Not only does someone get media space, but someone else loses that media space, etc. I'm really afraid that corruption has somehow almost eaten us, ruined the possibility of many generations. And it's understandable that it's not just a declarative commitment to fight it, it's someone's responsibility that needs to be taken over, so maybe you should also reduce and it's clear that you should both shut down and arrest. I think HDZ is on the move here today. It's either delegated or legitimized. Now we'll see what time will show. If HDZ doesn't do anything, I mean the credibility of the fall of the prime minister, it falls to the credibility of the anti-corruption policy, HDZ legislation in Europe falls, in one word remains an old policy in Croatia. If the changes may be made to this minister, the HDZ may be falling, perhaps most of them, may be followed by early elections. In the first case, it means a political downturn. There's an individual falling in the other one. In the first fall perhaps Croatia. The second is the fall of Mr. Calmeta. Now how can I explain it to you or draw it for you? In the first fall I said Mrs. Kosor's policy, and in the second fall I said Mr. Calmeta. Now you gentlemen at HDZ simply choose between what you will be legitimateized and what will be delegated to you. I think the country's been started a long time. The same people are hardly able to lead her, but the point is today, this debate has been called by someone in a replica before, perhaps President Bebic called a show to follow the world. If it doesn't come to your resignation, Mr. Matushic, your government's credibility falls, my government. The government is left without that reform potential. If it comes to the shift, maybe I'll translate it and HDZ shoot you on the seams. There may be another third solution. It's agony, blockage. I don't know about hope. And I personally think it's really an early election exit. Not everyone is in opposition or in my party for one such solution, but I think the best thing that would happen to Croatia in due course would be these elections. Before, Minister Calmeta said that we are the rule of law, that we have almost aligned everything with Europe. Come on, we're almost in line with Europe, but what is this practice of these roads, of Podravka, of Vartex, of Post Office Bank, etc. some other time. And that's right. One is political responsibility, the other is criminal responsibility, and I honestly think that the minister is somehow politically responsible for the situation in his portfolio, as the HDZ gentlemen will call me for what is in the County of Istria, the city of Buzet or elsewhere. It's all legitimate, I'm just wondering why he's not here in front of the building, and he's up to all these qualifications as a state attorney or someone from the MUP with one five, six Marches, so we can solve one small part of the Croatian problem right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45317	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So it is understandable that the presidential campaign is under way and that it is impossible in these discussions to avoid the topics that actually belong to this campaign. However, it is not appropriate to mention individual presidential candidates in the context as mentioned and to do so by one of the presidential candidates. That's not correct. There's no mention of this or that. You can talk about negativity and that. But I, in accordance with Article 114 and in particular paragraph 1, would not be directed, and I will have to, if certain presidential candidates are mentioned, warn the representative who is talking about it, and then after the warning and the second time I will take his word away. So here's everything in good faith as a reminder. Mr. Frano Matušić, has a correction to the incorrect assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45318	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I'm going to correct my colleague Cain's incorrect claim. Well, it seems that in Croatia, when we talk about the prices of kilometers of highways, it is the most expensive building in Europe. That's not true. The average price of shares built in the Republic of Croatia is 7.9m euros per km. In neighbouring Hungary, for example, the average price is 11m euros per km, the newly agreed shares in the Republic of Slovakia are 18m euros, and the newly agreed shares in the Republic of Slovakia are 32m euros, and in Switzerland and France, 34m euros. So now you're still making such a mistake. As for Olaf, Comrade Cain, you fight for honor in an dishonest manner by saying the lie here. Sam Olaf has denied doing any investigation into the Croatian highways. Why? Because they are only doing investigations where the European Union finances with its own resources. Therefore, do not deceive the Croatian public. Olaf had to deny it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45319	Thank you. Ms. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I would also correct the inaccuracies of the gentleman who points out that the construction of the highway is the most expensive in Europe. Mr Matušić has actually said what the prices mean among these in other countries of the environment, but it is incorrect and not only that the price in Croatia is far the lowest of the countries in the environment, and for example we can compare the built stock of Breznik Huma, the New Marof which was opened in 2003 and the price per one built kilometre was 6.67m euros and the Vrbovac-Bjelovar shares, which was numbered this year at a price of 5.56m euros per kilometre, which represents a savings of no more than 17%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45321	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45322	Well, I was also trying to correct an incorrect quote that refers to the cost of the highway. Mr. Cain, in the heat of his presidential campaign, wishes to deny the evident success of Croatian road construction and to create an imposed public perception of the unrealisticly high prices of highway construction in Croatia. It's not based on facts as we've heard from the previous two corrections. This is denied by the available information from the Croatian highways and the fact is that in Croatia the cheapest construction is one kilometer and 7.9m euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45323	Thank you. Correction of Madam Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's what I wanted to make Mr. Caine's presidential candidate right about Olaf. It seemed very important to me, since Croatia is using considerable funds from the European Union, not to spread incorrect information about how Croatia is doing, there is therefore no Olaf in this situation that Mr Cain has stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45325	Thank you. Correction, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45326	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not gonna fix that part of the speech that was part of the campaign president, you said it yourself. But I'm going to correct the only quote that you've tied to the impelation, which was at the height of the cost and cost of the road. As part of the EUROSTAT programme, a research was carried out at the level of the cost of construction and construction, and housing, and companies, therefore, and economies in 33 European countries. According to the survey, Croatian low-building is 31st. Or to simplify, for the sake of our viewer and listener, the third cheapest of 33 countries. So it does not stand for your claim that our roads are regularly the most expensive in Europe. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45327	Thank you. Correction, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45328	Thank you very much. I beg you, Mr. President, part of Mr. Cain's debate is not at all on today's subject, as you yourself have said in connection with a message being sent from the HDZ, which is absolutely incorrect. So it's incorrect and messages are on the candidates you're thinking about, because these candidates used to be in HDZ, but they're not anymore. And the only message is that our candidate is professor. Andrew Hebrang. And secondly, if Mrs Kosor's policy and the HDZ government fell, which is visible to him, it is visible from his debate. And right now our debate will show that this policy is stable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45329	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45330	Here I have to correct my colleague Caine, who claims that the biggest affairs were the Croatian roads, railways and the like. And he said I won't mention it to INA, and exactly the biggest affair was in INA in 2003 when 25% of the shares were sold plus one share and the handover of management rights. The standard is to sell the code that way, and hand over the management rights to 20%, so plus the price. And now colleague Ljubo Jurcic claims two days ago that he has no commission, but our former colleague Radimir Cacic, and colleague Pusic will confirm that he is always telling the truth, claims yesterday that the commission was paid, and if it is about $505 million commission is 110 million dollars, and we believe Mr. Cacic. I ask the SDP where 110 million dollars went missing, or who stole 110 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45331	You know who was against that deal, Kramaric and Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45332	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Correction. Your Honor. It's hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45335	It's hard to correct someone who hasn't said anything in particular here or listed it. That's why I think we should make a business provision to correct incorrect assumptions, because Agent Cain himself said he assumed everything he was saying, so then I'll make it right, because he said he assumed that the money had been poured into some of the ministers' pockets. I mean, given some presidential candidacy, it should still be concrete, so let's say what the ministers are about, which money is about, then that would be credible. These are just conjectures again. So we need to see business how we can correct assumptions, incorrect assumptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45336	Thank you. And I thank you for your ever-increasing understanding of what it's like to assess what a correction is, which is not a correction to an incorrect assumption. Let's move on. It is up to Madam Representative Vesna Pusic, on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45337	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, colleague and colleague. Certainly well and commendable that Minister Kalmeta announced and said here he would answer all the questions and respond to all the facts that have been presented. The fight against corruption is crucial for Croatia, perhaps only secondary to the European Union and, primarily, we cannot survive under these conditions. My deep belief that Mrs. Kosor when she came to the head of the government, if anything, stopped actively hiding cases of corruption, which, in my opinion, was the case, and that led to some of the things being revealed today. I will give this presentation on behalf of the HNS Club 15 facts and 6 questions. Well, I'm asking that if it's possible for us to answer that. The first fact, the HDZ government agreed before 2000 to build a 142km highway from Bosiljev to St. Rok for a price of 7.33m euros per km without competition with Bechtel. Two, after 3 January 2000 in Racan's coalition government, the portfolio was taken over by former Minister Cacic and arranged 170km from St. Rok to Dupol for 4.25m euros per km after the tender, so 7.33 per km without a competition and 4.25 later a mile after the public tender. Fact 3. In Sanader's government after the 2003 elections, this resort, which includes Croatian highways, of course, was taken over by Minister Kalmeta. Four, immediately after taking over the portfolio, Minister Kalmeta arranged 94km on the Dupolje-Ploče section for over 8 million per km again with Bechtel and again without a public tender. So in a few months, twice as expensive. Fact 5, former Prime Minister Racan and former Minister Cacic then warned the public at a press conference. In response, Sanader and Kalmeta claimed that a) the obligation of direct agreement in a contract concluded by the previous Racan government, b) that Bechtel would sue them if they did not abide by it, c) that no one could build more favourable than these 8 million euros per km, and d) that the contract was not actually signed. Let me just say it again for a second. It's not us, it's them, Bechtel's gonna sue us if we don't stick to the contract, no one's building cheaper, and actually there's no contract. The untruth was soon revealed when the unsigned contract was unbroken at the Sanader government meeting. Fact 8. Afterwards there was a public tender for the stock and the job was no longer received by Bechtel but by a group of Croatian companies for one billion kuna less for the entire share than what was agreed with Bechtel. Question 1. Where was it supposed to go, or to whom that one billion kuna was to go, more than the one agreed with Bechtel? The 9th fact, that's what you think Calmeta would give Chacic. So the 9th fact, in 2004, it was still not 4.25 million euros per mile as in 2003, but 7 million, so now there were no more 8 million per km but 7 million euros per km but you still see how much more expensive, compared to what was contracted the previous year at 4.25 million per km. The fact of the 10th time since then, under the leadership of the Ministry of Minister Calmete, the price of one km has jumped to 17m euros. So let's repeat, in 2004, a mile of 4.25m euros, 2004 km of 7m euros, 2009 km of 17m euros. Question number two, where's your money? Where's the difference? Fact 11. At this point, the investment was breached, on corridor 5c by 103%, so one kilometer costs a little more than double what was agreed on. And on the A1 highway, so Dalmatini is 68%. Question number three, in this case, same as number two, where are those money? Where's the money? Double price for a mile from the deal. 12. Fact, during this period, Minister Calmeta of Brodogradnja's term in the construction of the highway, a company established by the Zuzul Brothers Construction Fund, which had a stakeout with a new member of the HAC administration also came from shipbuilding. Fact number 13 over the last six years, and in the term of Minister Calmeta, every working day in HAC, over 6 years, each working day was employed by one man, so HAC grew from 1900 people in 2003 to nearly 3,000 employees today. At the same time, investment in highway construction is three times smaller, so three times less construction intensity, and 3,000 people each day one. Question number four, what are they doing? All those extra HAC employees, what do these extra HAC people do when construction is cut? Fact 14. 11. Six. In 2007, the then president of the HAC Board, Mario Crnjak, sent a letter to the HAC Supervisory Board, which warns: A) of irregularities in the collection sector, B) on the obstruction of internal control in HAC, C) on the unlawful appointment of the Director of Payments without prescribed and law of the required qualifications, D) on the appointment of suspicious people in the collection sector "HAC" literal quote, E) on the shifts of people in internal control in the "HAC" without the necessary process of determining the facts. The 15th fact, the president of the Board of Directors also states that 18 months. He hasn't been invited to any meetings with Minister Calmet for 12 months. 2005 to 6 months. 2007 During that period, however, Minister Kalmeta had a 45-fold meeting with the other two management members, with one 30 times, with the other 15 times. With the president of the board, I repeat, not one single time. Based on this, the black man, then still president of the HAC administration, is asking to be relieved of his post as head of the HAC administration, as you know later and done. Question No. 5 What Is God’s People? What is this? Compared to this above-mentioned painting of the tunnel by 2 times 22 million kuna looks like an unpaid parking ticket or a tax bust of Al Capone. Corruption and incompetence have eaten the highway towards Dubrovnik in these six years, the highway towards Sisak, the Podravina-Bjelovar route and many billions of kunas. As for the defence of Minister Calmeta, who has made public several times that he knew nothing about it, and that would be terrible enough that a minister who, as I mentioned under the Constitution, is personally responsible for his work area, therefore constitutionally personally responsible for the area of work under Article 114. If he didn't know where these billions were going, these money that isn't his, it's not ours, they're conditional on the state, but the state takes it from the citizens. The state takes them through taxes from citizens and taxpayers. So he didn't know what was going on with the money he was entrusted with by the citizens of this country. That would already be scary enough, not knowing where those billions were disappearing in his vault, but of course it's not true that he didn't know it. The minister knew what was going on in whiteness as the letter of former head of the HAC administration of Mr. Black. Nigger himself reported to chief state attorney Bajic about the toll collection and also informed the Supervisory Board. Finally, this year 2009. "HAC" is illegal, so "Croatian highways" illegally spent 3.6 billion kunas because the government did not adopt a public road construction and maintenance programme for 4 years for the period 2009 and 2012, so nobody knows why that money was spent? Is that part of some plan, not part of the plan? So, just in this moment, at the end of the year, such a plan is being adopted, and it was due at the end of 2008. So this whole year, these 3.6 billion were spent without a plan. Question No. 6 is, then, what, or what would a colloquial say? Everyone knew, and some stole. Whoever stole it should establish state's attorney's office and court. As we know, the procedure is already ongoing. But political responsibility is not criminal. The political responsibility is for this money that was in that vault and that was spent and spent in this way that I sketched here briefly on behalf of the HNS Club. Political responsibility is unequivocal, constitutionally unequivocal. The minister is responsible for his field of work. political responsibility has a name and a last name. The political responsibility in this case is called the God of Calmeta. Minister Calmeta, it's time! It's time to take responsibility and leave the government. This country really can't take it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45338	Thank you. We have a few corrections, and then Minister Calmeta will get his word. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45339	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Pusic incorrectly said that Prime Minister Kosor is if anything, and then at least she stopped hiding corruption affairs. It's a lie. Prime Minister Kosor has never hidden any corruption affairs, and her work was best monitored through the State Audit reports when she was always receiving unconditional opinions for her work in the ministry without any irregularities. That's part of the answer. The second part of the answer is that people say that it really doesn't matter what they say but who says it. This is said by a person whose president has accused Minister Calmet, a person whose president has publicly proven that his ministry has signed over 600 million contracts with his companies. And what is it, dear colleagues, but corruption? What's that? Your President, Cacic, has been clearly proven in the process led here by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest that his ministry has signed with his contract companies over 600 million kuna. So what is it? Did you clear that up in the party? You're here today to tell us what corruption is, and please, and that president of yours doesn't recognise, of course, the decisions of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45340	Thank you. Mrs. Pusic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45341	Mr. President, the breach of the Rules of Procedure consists of my colleague Matusic correcting something that I absolutely did not say. It has nothing to do with referencing Mr. Cacic, who notes this is the same Commission responsible, who has declared the entire trial before the court today, and no indictment has been filed against Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45342	Mrs Pusic did not correctly request a correction of the incorrect quote or you called on any of the articles of the Rules of Procedure, and therefore, as if we had not heard it. Let's move on. Mr. Josip Djakić, correction of the incorrect allegations. Please... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45343	Mr. President, Mrs. Pusic has found the prime minister actively concealing corruption and crime so far. That's not true. Prime Minister Kosor has been actively involved in fighting corruption and crime along with ministers who clearly direct state institutions to expose all those who commit crime. And it's incorrect that the price difference doesn't know where it is. There are contracts and reports that are both one and two from 2002 where it is absolutely talked about where 72 million kunas were given without any approval for the construction of the Tunel Mala Kapel once as an advance, and other times as a hasty completion of works for just a month. This is a crime that hasn't been punished yet. And I believe that when they consider such items, they may not make a decision to return the money to Cacic as he returned to the Rijeka drug dealer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45344	Thank you. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45345	Thank you. In 209, it rectified exactly the opposite of what I said. So, I did not say that Prime Minister Kosor does not allow the detection of corruption, but vice versa to enable the detection of corruption and the decommissioning of new situations. And that's why these cases come out. And in addition, the above-mentioned colleague did not correct any incorrect allegations, but was trying to cover up the fact that this was a maestro case of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45346	These efforts are mutual because Mr. Djakic corrected and even mentioned some figures in his explanation in correcting the incorrect allegations. And please, Mrs. Pusic, don't ever abuse the lifting of the breach of the Rules of Procedure again, because it's exactly what you were talking about before you sat down. Mrs. Nevenka Marinovic, correction of the incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45347	It is not true, Mrs Pusic, that the cost of building the highway is 17m euros per km square. It is true that the average price of shares built so far is 7.9m euros per square and the lowest in the environment. We've repeated that several times today. And the quality of our tunnels and highway quality no one can dispute, the more rewarded they are. Ms. Pusic, you are expected as a candidate for the president to at least be more serious and data-checking, not imposing on us well-known models of funding for Mr. Cacic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45348	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45349	Now she'll be a great colleague, so she will be. In fact, counterpart Pusic incorrectly states that the price per km during the famous Minister Radiir Cacic's visit was $4.25. Why? Because the minister used to let the highways unfinished. We remember those slides. I'll never forget when I said five years ago, thank God Cacic didn't build the Parliament building because she would have slipped to Ilica. However, Cacic was setting up jobs for his firm so that we had the feeling that this state would be called not the Republic of Croatia but the contingencies. And he was making money on a renovation where every contract had seven annexes. ... /The speaker has been disabled./... Thank you. Where is the basic contract would be 7 million and 10 million annexes etc. But, dear fellow, if it were an early presidential election, Bajic would have already done it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45350	What, a sequel to what you were saying? Ms. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's the incorrect quote from MP Pusic when he claims Minister Kalmeta didn't know where billions were going from his portfolio. Not that it's incorrect, but as a minister, Mr. Kalmeta has launched and set up an anti-corruption programme and initiated a deal with corruption in public enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45352	Correction of Mrs. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I am correcting Mrs Pusic's incorrect quote when she said in her debate that during the time she was Minister Cacic that the cost of the highway was 4.25, you repeated it from the bench, and that now during Minister Kalmet the prices have increased astronomically and that it is 17 million. Mrs. Pusic, since you are a presidential candidate, you should really be more credible to convince the Croatian public that you get a few votes. And I'm going to tell you exactly now, for comparison and for the comparative to remember. Don't laugh, you're insecure. Bosiljevo 2-Josipdol, which opened in 2003, which was under the leadership of former Minister Cacic, was the price of 6.73m euros, and to compare the price during Minister Kalmeta Šjeanovac-Račva last year, with a price of 6.67m euros. That's 1% of the savings. And how come during Racan's government when Cacic was the minister that no one could.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45354	Please, hello, thank you very much. You've gone too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45355	Well, I can't say everything because they're all lying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45356	Thank you. My people, laughing at someone's arguments is legitimate. Because it doesn't say anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that it's forbidden when someone else is talking about laughing. And it became a political practice in Croatia, when you have no arguments, then you laugh or say that this joker is the other one. Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Kalmeta. All in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45357	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Ms. Pusic. What I agree with you in this presentation is that the fight against corruption in this country is crucial and that it is necessary to continue with the increased intensity of the anti-corruption billing. But that's the only thing I agree with you. And I'm asking you a question right now. That by any chance Croatia was at a time when you and the president, then you seemed to be party president, was this arranged and organised both legally and institutionally, etc. In the fight against corruption what would then be that God himself might know. That I am God may know, but we know that then you couldn't agree, Mrs. Pusic, you couldn't agree on who would be head of the secret service just so you could. Now, here's the deal. You also said here you were very argumentably deluding the Parliament and the public. You said Cacic had arranged a stake of 4.25m euros, I guess I don't know what, and you didn't say that the stock he had agreed at the time had already been built there and that the tunnel had been dug up. You didn't say that first. That's all. And two. On those shares you mention we were up to last year whoever traveled down from St. Roc to Maslenica until last year doing subsequent works that he hadn't finished. And what I said earlier in my initial statement that the State Review had made two remarks. One was that the stock was built without any permission. So it was built without permission. Unfinished highways have been put on the market, and subsequent works left to other authorities to finance it. Besides, look away. St. Roc – Maslenica, also contracted by the former minister, was numbered 10m euros by Mr. Cacic. That's not what you wanted to say. Huh? 10m euros is being watched from St. Roc to Maslenica. That was the price of 10 million euros. So, they're nonsense. I don't say, I'll say everything. Look, I'll tell you everything, but you can't say that it was then built at 4.25 million on the easiest stock and that's a fact, but with the one I've said before that they were... The works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But don't say that the 10m-euro limited stock is right, you're more difficult, but 10 million, so that's what he's factoring out. Therefore, he did not bid only and receive jobs of 4.25m euros, but also 10. Let's just say it. And it's a clear thing, keep going. I said earlier that it was left to the government in 2004 only from Mr. Cacic's position of 2 billion kuna we had to pay, 2 billion kunas he didn't pay, not to mention that here's one decision he signed as chairman of the Supervisory Board. And I don't know my people, so it increases expenses. Therefore, payment for a part of the total expenditure of a billion and 121 million kunas will be transferred and executed in 2004 because he knew he would lose the election. So we will pay it and execute it, so that the deficit for 2003 is rebalanced in the amount of 3 billion etc. etc. i.e. for... a million kunas less than the amount of deficits granted by a decision on granting consent, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Next, a few more facts. Not to say he didn't go to the Assembly with the HAC's financial plan. He didn't go, he didn't recognize anything, he didn't recognize any Parliament, no institutions, what budget, what budget, nothing. Furthermore, you didn't say the same thing, Mrs. Pusic. You still didn't say that he was a minister with his companies, so he signed with his companies on behalf of the ministry, which he signed 150 million kuna of work. So my people, why didn't it come to the Parliament and why didn't we ask for his responsibility then? Not to say the other thing, let's say the HBOR took a billion euros, a billion kunas, I apologize to the funds without record in the budget that the work was being paid, etc. etc. So that's a fact. And one more thing about Mr. Mario Blackie. In his time 200 and some decisions of the administration were made. Only two points out of that 200 and something, whether it was a decision or a session doesn't matter, only two points weren't taken unanimously. Therefore, so much for how much he participated, as he did not participate. And now that we're talking about stock prices. I agree with you that it is very difficult to compare prices of kilometers and that is why we are all in agreement with highways both spatially and timely and that is a fact. Namely, type of soil, number and type of objects, somewhere plain, somewhere tunnel viaduct. Let's say this stock that will now be opened by the Diracje – Orehovica in Rijeka watch this information. It's eight, eight and a half kilometers long, so only one tape, one already exists is a billion kuna for eight, I think, half a mile. But he's there, and here's the thing. They know what it's like out there. It's a viaduct. It's a hell of a hard field. Thus, the fact is that it cannot be compared and that it is difficult to get completely two equal terrains and everything else so that it can be compared realistically. But that's why you should say, Cacic got a 5 million share, but the second insisted 10 or 15. And no, he's 5, and you're 17, which isn't true at all. So, but let me finish this perception that Croatia is building the most expensive highways. So despite what I said earlier, it's hard to compare. However, it is visible from the analysis carried out by some foreign consulting companies, which is not ordered by Croatia, but by some other countries, which has already been spoken here, that of the 33 countries surveyed, Croatia is 31st, therefore at the price, that is, as the third from the back said here at the price. If we're comparing, here's a comparison, for example. Prices, here's the Feast Hum-New Marof. It's a highway stock that opened in 2003, the price was 6.67m euros per km. Please, Breznick Hum-Novi Marof in 2003. Vrbovec-Bjelovar, which was numbered in 2009, therefore for so many years, that I do not know how much the price of fuel has increased, materials, everything and this, is 5.56m euros, so the price is now cheaper in 2009 than your former Minister Cacic made in 2003. So don't. I'm just trying here, and I think I'm trying to tell the truth, not deceive the public with one piece of information, and hide another piece of information. Therefore, the cost of road construction in Croatia is not true that it is the most expensive in Europe. However, it is among the cheapest in Europe. In the Republic of Hungary, your average price is 11m euros. Hungary knows it's a plain. So the average price of the shares built so far is 11m euros in Hungary. In Croatia, the average price of shares built so far is 7.9m euros. Therefore, these are data, there are figures, there are all, there are studies that have not done Croatia, but have done other countries for 31 countries. So let's talk about it, and let's not just talk about how we like it. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45358	Thank you. We've got corrections. Mrs. Vesna Pusic, first. No, I'm sorry, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure first, Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45359	Dear President, the Rules of Procedure, Article 214, gives the MP a warning if he does not stick to the topic under discussion in his speech. In this debate, Minister Calmeta spoke about everything but himself. So this topic is Minister Calmet, not about Mr. Chacic. So I invite you to give him a warning, and you also give yourself a warning that you didn't interrupt him because he talked about the wrong subject all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45360	Looks to me like you're about to get a warning. And you know why? Because Article 214 reads: The representative is given a warning. But since he was elected Minister Calmett, who was a representative one day or something, he is no longer a representative, so I can't give him a warning, and don't give up your plate incorrectly because you've picked it up wrong. I'm not going to warn you on principle if you don't force me to. Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Pusic, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45361	Thank you, Mr. President. So, a whole series of incorrect allegations by Minister Calmeta. Deluding in various ways the public, among other things, incorrectly. The St. Roc-Dugopolje stock is set for 4 million and 4.25m euros. Secondly, Racan's government's plan to build roads was first adopted by a four-year-old who knew exactly what was done contrary to what you did and spent 3.6 billion without a plan and without anyone knowing why and what. Third. At this point you are trying to defend yourself based on false accusations of others, and four members of the company's management under your supervision are in the custody of the minister. In custody. So let's stick to the planet of the earth and the real facts. People are in jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45362	Thank you. This deception of the public and mutual accusations. So everyone else says they're cheating on the public, right, this is what we've been hearing all along. Then let the audience and our people decide who's right, because we're not a courtroom or a lawsuit here. Thus, at 13 and 29, the deadline for the application was 10 minutes, and now the correction of the incorrect quote has Mr. Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45363	Thank you very much. I'm correcting Minister Calmeta's incorrect quote when he said Cacic's exemplified. Cacic did not count any shares, but he managed the ministry that carried out the tender procedures and only at that time, never before and never after, and in any other ministry it did not happen like at that time when a representative of the Croatian Employers' Association was sitting in all the competition committees just so that no one could be favored, or even his companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45364	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh, here's your correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45365	Mr. Minister said at one point that it's impossible to compare the highway stock. That is true, but it is not exactly how he uses it, because comparing the shares of the Holy Rock and the shares of the Maslenica, and the shares of the Holy Rock towards the north, are pears and apples. And in this particular case, the mountain road, the hardest road in Croatia, that's the one going down Velebit, is cheaper than the road you're building in Turopolje 4.4 billion kuna you say will cost to Sisak. That's 13m euros per mile on average. How is it possible to go out in the part where the road can be built in 7 months, you build it for 13m euros. And you know why? Because you were now forced to stop this whole procedure because the World Bank told you there was no building that road under these conditions and that's why you knocked down all the tenders. That's proof you weren't doing well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45366	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45367	I would also correct the incorrect assumption that prices cannot be compared because of different terrains. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45368	Please, don't rule out counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45369	So the truth is that you can, because we're talking about the average, and the greater the number of kilometers more accurate is that and the average price. As a confirmation, I quote the study of the capital transport infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia by Mr. Maria Crnjak, where he has just compared 11 different highways. Where three groups of roads could be found. One which was mostly completed by 2004, their average price is 4.5 million kuna, the second group entering roads that ended in 2004 over 50%, they have already jumped to 7.8 million euros per km, and only the agreed shares, such as Zagreb-Sisak, have jumped to 12 million euros per km.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45370	I know there's no tunnel between Posedar and Krka. I go every day like that. It's not the same as the other one. All right, let's move on. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45371	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. I'm not a presidential candidate like my two predecessors who spoke on behalf of the HNS Clubs and IDS, I'm just a parliamentary representative of Slavonia and Baranja. It's hard to talk at times like this when I would say this to half-serious and unserious debates, replicas, corrections of false allegations, we're actually making ourselves laugh, and the situation in the state is such that, without your explanations, and Minister Calmeta and those on the left, they know well, without anyone explaining to them what's going on in this country, they know well what's going on. So, without charges, without counter-indiction, without arguments, with arguments clearly see how they live and what happens in this country, you can say what you want. The indicators of this state of affairs in this country are that we have our employees through the media and we have pictures, we have our crying, students strike and the intellectuals are silent. And that's one deep silence very signifying. Why this silence, why these strikes, why are you crying at the worker? Someone here spoke, I think Minister Milinovic said Croatia must agree on about three basic goals. One is the foundation of the Croatian state that we have achieved, the second is the entry into the European Union and NATO which we have partially achieved and the third is a consensus in the fight against corruption. Gentlemen, do you think after 18 years of freedom in this country, freedom in one general sense is still an emotional interest in the common objectives of this country. We talked about Croatia, no, they have some. It was said we have democracy, no, they only have some in their own way. This democracy has led to the feudalization of this society, in which Minister Kalmeta also defends me to say the feud and defends what has been achieved by that state and that democracy, which is that it is the boom of corruption in that feud. Corruption, crime and everything that's wrong. As a result, citizens have actually lost their freedom, which is why they are citizens in apathy and have no interest in the future of the Republic of Croatia. That's why intellectuals keep quiet. So they're deep silent and there's no voice from them. The students are strikers. And when you count everything that's said here today, starting with the military trucks of Veronica Pliva, that's what you'd call it handsome, from Podravka, Brodoplit, Sunny Hvar, Maestro, INA and that octopus I still see at Pancic's on paper, then it's unnecessary or at all... to say that someone's accusing someone of crime but in a party uniform. Are you saying that crime doesn't have a party uniform? Inverted thesis. A foreign uniform and crime and crime and a party uniform. So look, let me say whose party uniforms are, look who these people are. But there have been other party uniforms before, so I don't exculpate any crime here, nor dress anyone special uniform, but today the situation is like this, for six years the HDZ government is at the head of this state, in the executive government, and for six years we've watched what we're looking at. Someone here mentioned Corridor 5C and overpayment of 106%, twice the price of the contract, so in Slavonia where this Corridor 5C actually doesn't start anywhere, it doesn't end anywhere, because there's a new budget with no bridge on Drava, there's no bridge on the Sava that should at all be in office and that would combine Hungary and Bosnia and Herzegovina over the Republic of Croatia, so in fact the biggest hill is Bundeva, yet the price has been overpaid twice as high as the one agreed. Interesting. Someone's with all this stuff I mentioned, where Stalldi is, where the money that's being thrown into the wind is. The Hypo Bank is not the current time for speech, it's about the Ministry of Transport, the relationship, etc. I claim that in the fight against evil, against corruption and crime, the injustice must not be stopped, and even when that fight is unprecedented, and we see by the reactions on this side that it is barbarous to hold the thesis, and it is barbarous to hold the foreign minister that, therefore, this struggle of all those who are here will bring any criticism or be for the impeachment of the minister, be irrevocable. However, as the late Gotovina said, there is no need to stop in the fight. I think Minister Calmeta deserves praise and mention. Someone was talking about Zadar here, so I am, and 10 MPs from that constituency. How could you not? Well, I'm surprised they're not more for HDZ, so I'd build him a monument in Zadar for life. But he's also mentioned by people in Slavonia, mentioned by 60 thousand Brodjans who wait every day at the lower ramp in Slavonski Brod. It is also mentioned by unemployed workers of the "Luke Brod", the river ports of the second most important in the Republic of Croatia that does not exist. It has been built for decades, unlike "Luke Galženica" which costs 220m euros or as opposed to one significant port on the island of Rava. Either from one road, someone in the material called, or I don't know in the inscriptions "Calmetina" to forgive me Mr. Minister, but here's what they call it from the port to Zemunik. The corruption affairs in this society have been covered up, I'm afraid even organized. Namely, the report on the killer doctors, about Dr. Simic, a Dr. from Osijek who has been charged with a 1800-dollar bribe and is therefore incarcerated by prison, has been shut down for 1800 kuna. And not only about them, but about others, to say small fish, that people would actually entertain themselves, that bread and games with such things, and these things that have now been spoken about and which are billions of kunas to keep quiet, to hide themselves. And then all of a sudden this same government and prime minister, so for six years, together with Mr. Sanader, she was going to say right hand, she was holding a ladder if we were going to be so folk. And now we're in the fight against corruption and crime, all of a sudden. Well, it didn't quite work out like that, so all of a sudden I'm gonna fight corruption and crime. Someone here mentioned OLAF, someone in the EU has it all. How come six years of silence, six years of hiding and hiding, and then here's something coming out? Employment at HAC, so gentlemen, we all know who gets a job on the highways in each of our places. Foreign people or those, and it's almost out loud and it's clear and very often, that you should give money, and I know and the amounts you're talking about, to get a job at HAC. First of all, the, uh, billing house. They mention him, Mr. Calmett, also mentions our railroadmen in Slavonski Brod, who have been redistributed to the Vinkovci railway hub. Look, from Slavonski Brod the railway hub was moved to Vinkovce and now 200 employees of the "Croatian Railways" from Slavonski Brod travels every day to Vinkovce. Lucky they have that so-called. I guess the director's card, yeah, if that's what it's called. And the rest that he couldn't do was either fired or left alone with the Croatian Railways. And by that they mention him, Mr. Calmett, in Slavonia and Slavonic Ship. Millions of kunas were wasted and spent, went to the wind due to an outdated court trial, due to a slow settlement in court, due to the loss of court disputes in Strasbourg, say 100 million kunas were spent on the process of a mounted and politically motivated Branimir Glavas, so 100 million kuna was spent there. So this, these millions of kunas and billions of them fly and flutter all over the place. It is true, and I believe that all citizens think of it, that it is hard honey to spell, and honey is not licked. Those beekeepers who are beekeepers know what it means to throw honey. But no one counted on how Croatian citizens live. Are you listening to this debate? At 4.5 billion euros, millions of euros, 7 million euros, 12, so that's millions of euros as if this country is America, as if it were Switzerland. So what did we do now? We have led citizens to the fact that our and external debt is 10 thousand euros per capita, including government debt and debt of banks and companies and companies and individuals, so that we do not jump out again with the correction of the incorrect allegations. In fact, every child of ours is in charge of 10,000 euros, and we have led to the loss of our freedom as citizens. I'm not talking about that freedom free, independent state of Croatia. We lost our inner freedom, we don't have the emotional charge that we had in '91. years to create our own, then, to create our own free and independent state of Croatia. No one cares what the government does more and how it will push it towards Europe, etc. They don't have people of interest anymore, they don't want to because the elitist elite realized what it had accomplished, and the citizens were completely abandoned and abandoned. I'm not going to talk about these affairs that I've been having here, that have been happening. Who did all the money go to and where did they go? Why, I wonder, refuse to call or resign? Does that point to anything else? Does this suggest that the head of the octopus and its main legs still be guarded? So that something else and even bigger would not be revealed. We gentlemen will continue to fight injustice, Mr. Matusic. So as much as we don't have... You said something now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, as much as we don't have looks in that fight, but eventually everything will come out. So you've heard everything I've said. Thank you very much for listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45372	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No matter how much the honourable parliamentary representative, Col. Grubisic, went emotionally, it is really inappropriate and immodest to say that it was just spoken or said that we have Croatia and that we have, and that we have lost freedom. I don't think it's like this Assembly speaker, whatever the subject is and it's in any way not a message that goes out of this House to the Croatian public. And secondly, speaking precisely of price differences in construction, which we have confirmed on both sides of the pay phone that there are differences in the quality of works and individual shares. The fact is that the construction of highways in Croatia during this past period is among the lowest in Europe. And as much as we want to deny it is through acts visible and it should simply be interpreted as a fact that speaks for itself enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45374	Mr. Representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Grubisic, said Corridor 5C, is not resting anywhere, does not end anywhere. And it's really embarrassing for you to say it like a Slavonic. So the Zagreb-Slavonski Brod-Bajakovo highway has a secession of Wednesday-Djakovo and ends in Osijek. Right? You didn't know that? It was built over 50 kilometers of highway and you say it's not keeping anywhere. ... If it concerns the term of office in the 9th electoral unit, just so you know before the construction of Kalmetina as you said and the construction of the Gagenica Mr. Kalmeta as the holder of the list received 9 mandates. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you'll never win it. ... No, not before 2003. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45376	Madam representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, on the same trail as I was a fellow Turk, I'd like to correct my colleague Grubisic who said the citizens lost their freedom. Thank God and our defender later, you've corrected yourself, and you've added emotional interest equally. So Croatia has fought its freedom in the Homeland War, and as far as apathy is concerned, because you say that Croatian citizens are in apathy. If we're listening to speeches like this, then for God's sake, we can't do anything but get depressed. And when you say that I'm making a cramping correction to another allegation, that we're holding aside Minister Calmeti, as far as I can see, Minister Calmeta is perfectly fine, he's very stable, and we're only holding foreign government, the government that's fighting corruption, and we're also going to insist on a government that's fighting for the truth. Minister Calmett himself can keep his side.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45378	Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's an incorrect quote from my colleagues, Grubisic, and I know he's shutting me down because he doesn't want to hear what's true, that party people are being hired on the highway. Namely, fellow Grubisic is being hired there by a public tender and primarily by defenders. So if you've got something against the defense attorney and their party membership, this or whatever it is, then you're gonna go public with it. And when you talk about the fear of getting to the head of an octopus, then you're probably your head and where it is and in which country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45380	Ms. Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's like Franco and I are making a deal and we're hearing the same thing. I am also correcting Mr Grubisic's incorrect allegations that party people are being hired. That's incorrect. People are hired according to exactly the proper procedures that the law says the advantage under the same conditions is the unemployed Croatian defender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45382	And Mr. Representative Ivan Skaricic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45383	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct Mr Grubisic's incorrect allegations when he said Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor held a ladder of organised crime for six years. It's just not true. And that's why you have absolutely no proof. And I think at the very least it's rude to say so here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45384	HSLS's club, HSS, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45385	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today it is asked of our colleague and Minister Calmeta that political responsibility. Political responsibility is, like any moral responsibility, something that is strict and unquestionably personal, something that depends on personal judgment, something that actually depends on personal conscience on what we can think of ourselves. Of course, according to what others think of us. It's always some unspeakable voice that every man must hear about himself and think about himself. However, this is a political responsibility as a moral responsibility, absolutely and only driven by the fact that four members of the former administration are in custody today and are encouraged by an investigation against these citizens of this country. This political responsibility is not encouraged and cannot be encouraged by the government's work as a whole, by the responsibility of the minister for the poor organisation of the ministry itself or by the lack of execution of what both the government and the ministry need to carry out. However, they should carry out only what we have given them in the task of acting and having to act in accordance with the budget, funds and other positive regulations, rather than being encouraged by the knowledge and suspicions that have arisen by the investigation. And if there was any evidence, any indication or suspicion that Minister Calmeta had ordered anyone, called, recommended that they act on any of these criminal acts, that they fail to do anything to make sure that it didn't happen, that he was directly involved or any of his assistants or someone who was directly under his authority again, that he was directly involved in the procurement process, then, apart from what is being said today, so the investigation and his responsibilities would be unquestionable. However, we do, with the initiation of the investigation, with suspicions of criminal offences, have absolutely no change whatsoever, the indication that Minister Kalmeta knew or that he had in any way influenced controversial and suspicious public procurement. It's impossible, perhaps to you MPs who don't have executive authority, it seems strange, but it's impossible for all of us who work in executive power to know at any moment what the company is doing in public procurement. That's absolutely not possible. If the HAC or any other company had 4,000 public procurements, it is impossible for the minister to know about certain public procurements, unless I repeat it again directly, he was involved or in any way influenced by public procurement procedures. And if this is proved, I am the first one to make the minister responsible and political and to answer to the Parliament and, of course, answer to the citizens of this country. This is how we actually encourage criminal persecution, by investigating the whole country and all of us into figures that will be under some kind of strong pressure from moral-political responsibilities, and in fact we want to say that it is morally and politically above criminal and legal. That's dangerous weights. Yet, in today's modern, Western democracies, the only one who determines someone's responsibility, and then of course and therefore all other responsibilities, is the legal system. You can't accuse someone and it's not right to be found guilty in advance by someone whose absolutely nothing has been proven and there's no direct line between the people who are in custody and the minister. Among other things, according to the laws of this country there is a supervisory board, there are audits, there is a prescribed process to give balances. There are ways and documents from which it is possible to see what is happening to individual companies, but simply the minister can't know how smart he was, no matter how wide, no matter how much time he normally had to watch what was going on in certain companies. Neither the mayor nor the mayor can know that. He can't even know, for example, the hospital director from where he'll know what's going on if a doctor is taking bribes. Neither can the President of the Court know what every single lawyer or judge or anyone else is doing. He can't even tell the mayor what's going on, for example, in some public company dealing with gas distribution. For public procurement absolutely cannot know, especially if it is true. I have personally checked the data that neither the revision nor the Public Procurement Appeals Commission, except in five percent of the cases, which is important, but statistically almost insignificant to such a number, to 4,000 public procurement. So less than 5% of the cases have been respected. Therefore, if there is no indication that this was happening with 50% public procurement, then the minister should say something is wrong with the company. If this were happening with 30% of public procurement procedures, the minister could say something again is wrong. But if you don't have any indication of a public procurement procedure, there's something broken, but you can only do that with a criminal prosecution, or with an investigation, then I think it's very difficult to speak and impose a man's responsibility. I wouldn't want us as a society, and unfortunately for us ladies and gentlemen, we can admit it to ourselves or not, but it happens to us to come into a state of moral panic, in a state of collective hysteria in which unfortunately the president of the state calls USKOK for the former prime minister, the former prime minister will not turn that upside down and jump on him. I'll have the maids on the payroll when they don't have the origin of the goods and I'll send them to you to question you. I mean, this is a state of collective hysteria. Before these local elections, I don't want to talk about myself, the chiefs and the candidates in my county alone, there's hardly anyone who didn't have any doubts. There were people who were reported four, five times anonymously. We truly live in a time of absolute moral panic, moral totalitarianism. Anyone can report it, and it might not be bad from the point of view of us all waking up together and in some way raising our civic awareness. But, gentlemen, there's nothing out of collective hysteria. We can't yell at all are thieves, shivering thieves. We can't live in that state to say Hegel's night, because at night all cows are black. No more distinctions, everyone gets suspicious. I think it's a condition from which we won't be able to deal effectively with corruption quickly. We simply must begin to distinguish not on the basis of an anonymous, let them register, let the citizens suspect but based on what has been proven, based on what has been determined we must begin to speak these are the people who are criminally responsible. These are people who aren't criminally responsible. And there are no gentlemen from the left and right of our shit and your thieves, our and your suspects. Yours and ours that used to work, and now we don't have to mention it anymore. They're working now, so it's worth mentioning. It was and there's corruption and it's everywhere. Let's not fool citizens by not being in the European Union. You have recently been able to read that our fellow representatives of the European Parliament, a good part of them, were not the European Parliament but the German Parliament on the WW payroll. So Wolksvagen paid them for certain services. In Germany, a country with a traditional and stable scale of value. You could read that there was a crime in the German post office, so no one called for Angela Merkel's shift. They cleared up, found themselves responsible. Let's not talk about the fact that there's no such thing anywhere else, that it's possible to avoid it completely, and especially let's not say that those who reveal it, that a government who now wants to fight it and who doesn't want to protect anyone, that it's responsible. Because then the question arises what the governments did that didn't reveal. Don't just say there wasn't any corruption at the time, because there's a lot of corruption in every society, statistically speaking. It carries the good part and the grey economy, the good part of economic growth, the good part of national good, it has it. However, it did not reveal itself. Saying it wasn't the same as saying look, today nobody committed a traffic violation on our highways or roads, because the police simply didn't punish anyone, so the police didn't punish anyone or find anyone today, so there were no traffic violations. Of course there are, and of course there have been before. There's been corruption, and it just hasn't been revealed before. The fact is that it has begun to reveal that state institutions, companies are not protected from it, that where the large funds are, of course, corruption risks are too high and that we have to precisely distinguish both the name and the last name of who is guilty of what. I'd like to take one more step especially if there aren't any small and large and ours and yours. If today any party is going into interpretation, then it should first show its credibility. You are colleagues from the SDP until recently, all of you were behind colleagues, Bandic. You were with him in the election. When he left the party, announced his candidacy, the second day you said that he, his mandate, was marked by corruption. Can I finish? The second day you gave him up and accused him of being marked by corruption. So let's not do it that way. If someone's ours, then it's all right, if they stop being ours, then we immediately suspect him of dishonest acts. No, I repeat your thieves and our thieves. There are no more or less suspicious when it comes to corruption has always been and has been in state-owned companies. It needs to be discovered, personalized and prosecuted. What I'd advocate is that we can systematically, because corruption is always systematic, it's primarily capillary, it's looking for its ways to use bad in a bad organization, and in a good organization to try to start, bite and make bad. We need to get to the point where we have people who have time sitting in state companies. Let the state also take independent audit houses and place them on board, to sit people who have time to read the balance sheets, who have time to check contracts for public procurement. This is what we advocate as a party, it is the only way, absolutely the only way that the supervisory boards can be more alert, in time to determine the situation, that both ministers, the government and we as representatives know what is happening in time and that we can prevent, or that we can reduce corruption to the least possible measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45386	Thank you. Three corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45387	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here I would totally agree with the exposure of my colleague, the Czecho, but I would only correct him if they weren't in the custody of four board members, but two board members. Well, it's not right because of these two who aren't in custody and who haven't proven any responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45388	It's no one, yeah, a little bit. Mr. representative of Luke Denon rectification of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45389	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Chehok, who at one point said, by comparing the knowledge and ignorance of the state authorities and the executive authorities at local level, that even at the local, executive authority at local level, I cannot know what is happening to them in their companies. Maybe that's the case with him in Varazdin. In other arranged units of local self-government, there is an organization where through the College of Directors there is a knowledge of what is going on in companies, because we have spent a united public procurement and we know precisely through the work of the College of Readers, to be precise, which happens weekly in every company, because we are not just dealing with the protocol but we are doing something.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45390	And Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45391	Thank you. It's incorrect what my colleague Chehok says is that this is the creation of some kind of collective hysteria. What he's doing is, in fact, rhetorical acrobatics aren't all relativized lively and esculpatory they act most of the functions and they're objectively guilty of what's going on in their vaults. It's called political responsibility, and it's incorrect when a colleague of the Czech Republic says, quote him, the only person who determines someone's responsibility is the legal system. Not a fellow Czecho. That's what you as a professor should know, politics isn't about, it's about some kind of political body, it's about politics. We're talking political responsibility here, and what you're doing is trying to get away from it. And so much to smoke behind you unseen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45392	SDP representative club, Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45393	You know when you don't have arguments that you can defend a minister who's burdened with numerous affairs, then you say we're all the same. Politics we're all the same is simply unacceptable because we're not the same, we don't have the same responsibility and we haven't all participated in the wicked acts. And as long as we behave like that, primarily here in this assembly, we are looking for an alibi to vote, namely that you vote and support one of the ministers who is hard to support, you are doing great damage to political life in Croatia. But we have already learned that here many people who raise their hands for something in this assembly come here and moralize themselves, observe our moral practices, and I think that the citizens have already seen it very well. As for Mr Kalmeta, it should be said that unfortunately all these affairs that have been opened by the departure of Ivo Sanader are, unfortunately, not an indication and evidence of a sincere fight against corruption and crime, but rather a consequence of the pressure of the European Union. The difference is that Ivo Sanader stood neatly behind his ministers, covered them in all their non-publicities, asked for no political responsibility, unlike Jadranka Kosor, who decided to get rid of some ministers for Croatia's entry into the European mind. Of course, only those ministers who do not have HDZ support fall. And now the prime minister is pressuring the party's decision to stop fighting corruption and crime. How Europe will be justified for this, we will see in the next period, because it still cares more about the European Union than about how and what Croatian citizens think about the HDZ government. On the other hand, the Prime Minister's standing next to Minister Bozidar Kalmet is destroying her credibility absolutely. She stood behind a minister who has the most affairs in his portfolio, who was convicted of a driver for corruption, or racketeering, who was arrested by the entire HAC administration, who had train accidents, who spent the most money in the budget, and who at the same time had the worst results, and who showed no desire to change anything in his portfolio. This means that the minister strongly supports all this and that he is not worried about the bad situation in the Croatian railways or Croatian highways or in the Croatian Post Offices, as well as the money out of the resort. We're not looking for any criminal responsibility, it's the State's Attorney's office and some other institutions, but we're looking for political responsibility. Not only in the media, but also in this House, SDP deputies have warned Minister Calmet of certain affairs countless times. We asked questions in the current class, we had some interpretations, unfortunately every time Minister Calmeta answered these questions in a way that we would not call him and that he was simply not guilty of anything. So he reacted, Mr. Calmett, and he had no political responsibility to at least respond to certain things in this House, and that he really did, as a minister, examine what was going on and then come before this House and say that I have established this or that fact. That's how Mr. Kalmeta acted because he knew he had HDZ support for all his ministerial indifferences from the beginning. When you talk about how difficult it is to ask Mr. Minister for political responsibility I will remind you that you are obliged to respect the Constitution, and the Constitution in Article 114 says the minister is personally responsible for his work. Both Croatian railways, both HAC and Croatian mail are all your scope. Therefore, you bear responsibility. In developed democracies, ministers resign for much less. The European Union has asked Croatia to take seriously the concerns of Brussels over the transparency of public administration and lack of culture of political responsibility. Kalmeta could look up to German Minister Franz Joseph Jung, who resigned last week only because of poor public information. And you, because of all the affairs that have been open to the public for a year now, do not feel that you should bear political responsibility. I'll remind you of some more things that are opening up in your vault. For example, a new district control centre in Zagreb has been invested recently 40 million dollars, but it has not increased the efficiency of the service in the last two years because of the flight delays across our country caused airlines to lose 60 million dollars. The state of civil aviation management of the government agency is also under the supervision of Minister Calmeta. Last year, US authorities banned United Airlines from signing a joint agreement with Croatia Airlines because Croatia has no basic regulations in the field of civil aviation. Even more dangerous than sea or air travel in Croatia is by train. According to world statistics, the safest form of transport is railways and the most dangerous bike ride on a wheel. Unfortunately, in Croatia, this is more insecure than the management of Formula 1. In addition to the tragic accident in the Rudins, a recent collision of the freight train in Rijeka occurred on Sušak and slipped away in Plaška. Croatian railways operate with a fantastic loss of management members driving luxury cars if they are not in prison, rail transport is underdeveloped, there is no vision of its improvement. The whole of Europe is integrated by fast trains that develop up to a few hundred kilometers of speed, while Croatian trains air-conditioned as in the days of Austria, while the transport of this transport is sealed with clean head-carrying in the bag. Minister Kalmeta has been justice all along in a way that is under his Ministry of 40 commercial societies and 19 institutions. The minister is not the one who has the task of controlling, and even if he did, he couldn't say Mr. Calmeta. When in this way the minister is led by one of the most important and financially demanding ministries, then it simply means he is not up to his job. Mr. Calmett didn't come to the Ministry yesterday so that he had to meet the state and the people, Mr. Kalmett at the head of that resort was six years old. It sounds inconclusive that he did not receive a report on the costs paid and that some of the amounts were not suspicious to him. The political responsibility and political responsibility of the minister would, after every affair that went out in the media or on the issues raised by him here in the Parliament, exercise internal control within the ministry and then ask for some information and then say whether it was true or not. Not once, when we asked the question here, we didn't get any answers from Mr. Calmeta. Just four months ago, Mr. Kalmeta resigned from Jadranka Kosor over a train accident near Kaštel, but then the prime minister refused. At the time, he felt the responsibility of command, and these days because of the HAC affair, Croatian post office does not feel any responsibility. As Mr Kalmeta defended his staff solutions as well as his ministry's indifferences, Mr Kalmeta said at the beginning of the year that there would be no change in the management of the Croatian Railways, as the affair with the transfer of 2.5m euros to the offshore company took place at the Agency for Integrated Transport. Very soon, Davorin Kobak was removed. Next, he defended his driver here, unfortunately it turned out to be a man who was deep in a Zadar construction racket. The media reported that in an unrelated investigation, police registered 28 calls to Minister Calmeti by a member of the criminal mile. We never knew if it was true or not, but who stopped the further investigation. Perhaps Mr. Calmett is not responsible for everything that happened in his portfolio, but that he is quite irresponsible in his conduct and a rather problematic political phenomenon it is quite obvious. Minister Calmeta defended his associates until the moment the investigation approached his employees, then reacted to their preventive shift. Less than a month ago for "Evening List" claimed that the position of State Secretary and Supervisor of the Supervisory Board of Zdravko Livakovic was secure. Soon Livakovic resigned with an excuse not to do so because of affairs but for family reasons. He also defended the HAC administration so that two days before his arrest he would change what he said was a bad media climate that is hard to work in. While ministers are untouchable, the country's citizens pay a large price for those who have brought companies into trouble. I'll name some here. The removed and detained members of the HAC administration will cost Croatian citizens a million kuna because so many rights are being drawn from the contract they signed. The HEP administration that has been replaced will cost the citizens 4.2 million cooks. The management of Podravka, which is in prison, will cost citizens 5 million kuna. The Croatian Post Bank, by the end of the year, will have lost state bank losses due to the former administration's move to $400m, as a reward for such business in 2007. 4 million kuna, for good work in that year, and 7.5 million kuna in 2008. So more than 20 million kunas in all these companies are the majority of state-owned companies, so only Podravka is beyond that criterion. So 20 million kunas will pay Croatian citizens out of their pocket for the people who have destroyed companies, who are currently in prison, on the other hand most citizens in this country may earn 40 to 50 thousand kuna during the year. So how long do we think we can act so irresponsiblely? Minister Milinovic here spoke quite loudly, I'm sorry he's not here, but I have to ask a question. Doesn't he really have a conscience? Last night in a charity campaign for the pediatric ward at Osijek Hospital, citizens donated 3 million kuna from their pocket. Seven children's pediatrician departments could be restored with these 20 million kunas that we're going to put in the pocket of the people who are in prison, who have destroyed the companies. Is it responsible for the running of the earth? Answer me that question, is it responsible for running the country? On the one hand, citizens will donate money to help children, but it is primarily a function of the state. Of course, the state, on the other hand, is crumbling with money and rewarding all those who destroyed the companies instead of being punished for it. And finally, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor very often wants to point out and speak one sentence, no one is protected at any level, so everyone can somehow bear their own responsibility. Unfortunately, only some are so unprotected, ministers are heavily protected in the government of Jadranka Kosor. Mr. Kalmeta is one of the most protected in the government of Jadranka Kosor, but also Prime Minister Kosor must know that she has placed one part of what she initially had as her positive moves, she has definitely put it at stake now, and indeed no one else in Croatia will believe her when she says there is no one untouchable to fight corruption and crime because today it all fell into the water, by voting support of Minister Calmeta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45394	Thank you. Now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First of all, President Neda Klaric, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to correct the quote, only one of the sequences because I won't have time. When Mrs. MP says you're defending a minister who's hard to defend, but I really must say, Mr. Secretary, it's not hard to defend you at all because during the 6 years of your duties as a minister, you haven't made any, not one investment that would have been missed unlike the policy that the SDP had before you. I'll just say one example. Here's from the "Croatian Railways" space, during your term of office, passenger transport increased by almost 100%, of course in that term of six years. The cargo has increased by 25%, productivity growth has almost increased by 58%, and it is in fact up to the ministers to commend you for taking over 5 billion and 600 million kuna credit commitments from the Croatian Railways since 2004, and you have invested an average of 210% more than the previous government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45396	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45397	So I'm correcting one of a series of incorrect allegations because all of this was essentially one political pamphlet without arguments again. He says because of the EU's accession, the prime minister is giving up the minister. I don't think it has anything to do with the truth. And she says a colleague is the most dangerous train ride. Well, I don't understand how the most dangerous train ride when they paid 34m euros in direct contracts without customs, or 4m euros per piece, and in Germany the same train was 2.7m euros per piece. And that's during the SDP government. I guess they bought those super-quality trains that we've got so bad security today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45398	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in an analysis of the situation at the very beginning of my colleague Opačić in HDZ, you said a whole series of inaccuracies. I'll tell you, don't worry, HDZ is a firm, single party and gives support to its president and prime minister and will remain that way. Furthermore, by stating what you stated in your interpretation, I must tell you that you probably did not read the government's statement because on page 16. This observation is about data relating to the business result of the Croatian Railways, and it is next. During the period 2000 to 2003, the loss, so during your government, amounted to a billion kunas of 409 million. In the same period of 2004 to 2008, loss of 150 million kuna was achieved. So only 10% of what was in the previous period. So I think we should read it and talk about the data when you say something like you say the real things that go to Minister Calmeta and this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45400	Thank you. It's our guest, Goran Beus Richembergh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45401	My colleague Opacic, you say Mr. Kalmeta is the most protected in the government of Jadranka Kosor, the most protected minister. I believe that you are seriously wrong, namely Prime Minister Kosor, by not coming here to the Croatian Parliament, has clearly sent a signal and a message that it is not so with hands and heart behind Minister Calmeta but to support him only formally and that she would certainly get rid of him if she had enough power and support in her own party ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45402	Thank you, but in our Rules of Procedure, there is no correction of error, but a false assumption, so I would ask you to take care of it. And we have another correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I am going to correct the incorrect allegations of a prominent representative who said the HDZ government and the prime minister are disowning the minister and are going to fight corruption just for the sake of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. I will say it once again here, I think we have heard enough times, that all the anti-corruption measures and all the activities we are doing on Croatia's path to the EU are being done solely for Croatia and for its citizens, not solely for some other political unions, as is the case with the EU. And who about what, then the SDP about honesty, so I'm going to say one more fact. That the lady said the minister was personally responsible for the area of his work. Yes, he acted that way, so he personally reported those accused of corruption in the Croatian Railways. He personally reported them, no one said in his discussions, you might mention later. And as for the purchase of trains, in the SDP's time after SDP's instruction, you made a difference in the purchase price of 12.4m euros. This would be translated into today's Croatian chances of 90 million kuna, which would mean 17 thousand 188 average Croatian salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45404	Thank you. And now, Minister Calmeta, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45405	So I'd continue what I started at the beginning when I said I'd be responding to the points that the SDP club wrote, which is why it's looking for my shift, so I'd keep going. But before that, just a few sentences to the presentation of the distinguished MP Opacic. I hope that during the day I will have more time to talk about the railroads and the "Post" and the "Croatian highways" because there are also very good things and successes in these companies, etc. And what I was about to say, I never run away from responsibility, I'm a responsible man and I never came to the current clock and I never very much answered you or anyone who asked a question to me, I tried always to answer the arguments. Now, who likes these arguments or doesn't like them, that's another question now. And it's not correct of you to say that these famous 28 calls were sent to me. That didn't say anything. ... It didn't say anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one calls me so many times a day, not even a woman. And a troubled political figure maybe I am, maybe for the SDP that I probably am, because you know for what reason. But obviously not the other way around. But now I'd go back to what I was going to say and try to explain some things again. So, in that SDP proposal, it says in my opinion that "the prices have been artificially raised". I would again like to say here that all prices obtained in international public tenders are in line with what I said before to the Public Procurement Act or if they are financed by European banks, the European Investment Bank, the European Development Bank, etc. in accordance with their rules with strict control and prior consent to any step. And what I'm saying is, I can't raise prices. What I understand is what you're trying to say as an artificial price hike, it's called a calculation of the actual works carried out. These include extra-expensive work, unforeseeable work, more work and what they're called. Namely, what I would like to say is, if there are differences in the performance of the works compared to the projected parameters, and the professional valorisation is assessed as necessary for the quality of the works and the transfer of objects to use, then according to the law, according to those regulations, these works must be determined and accounted for, and it is necessary to make an analysis of the prices that are then re-confirmed by the independent and supervisory engineer who guarantees it, with his responsibility and criminality. So, the fact is that all this can affect the overall value of works and the client is obliged to recognise the real situation on the ground which is legal, again I say contractual obligation. For example. When building a tunnel, there's some kind of cavern nobody knows she's in there or can know. Of course it's some work. Besides, whoever of us didn't build something, renovated something, etc. It always starts one price, and then eventually, yeah, we could do this, we should do this, I haven't seen this, etc. But what's most important is the law predicts it. Therefore, the Public Procurement Act allows for up to 25% of additional works to be negotiated. Well, he's not a legislator, and this House voted for it. To enable up to 25% of additional works, clearly in accordance with the procedures, according to the law, according to the certificates, according to everything. And I'm saying that, I want to say one more fact. When we talk about HAC, the total value of these additional works agreed on contracts for construction in 2004 to date is 2.8% to this day. It's not over for years yet, but to this day it's 2.8%. Just for comparison, not for that reason, in 2000, 2003 it was 4.8% at that time. But here's an example, my colleague Jovanovic, I don't want to do it now and I don't say anything. But look at an example from Rijeka. So the river builds a swimming pool and in 2002 the final cost of costing the pool is announced, so it will be 73 million kuna. And that, therefore, was said that the pool would cost 73 million kuna. This is how the initial price of the swimming pool in the making of the documentation was, it will cost 73 million kuna. Already at the first presentation of the project in 2003, prices rose to 120 million kuna. But I'm not saying anything, I'm just saying it as an example. Then in 2004, when the city council was adopted, prices rose to 132.94 million kuna. Two years later, the price almost doubled and amounted to 225,717 million kuna without the reconstruction of the existing swimming pool and without the diving pool. Finally, the construction of a swimming pool complex in Cantrida will amount to over 400 million kuna as much as possible. Now look. Let me watch that, colleague Jovanovic. ... No, I'm not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me finish. ... I'm not just saying that to my colleague Jovanovic. I'm not saying that anything's wrong with that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't mean to say it, I'm just stating how, from 73 million kunas, it grew to 400 million kunas. I'm the only one who gives examples. I didn't say it was wrong, I didn't think they were... I didn't say it, which you would certainly tell me and what you're telling me at the end of the day. We'll see if there's a prison here when it comes to the pool. Or you keep saying political responsibility. Here's another example of the city of Rijeka. The city of Rijeka is through its municipal company, listen well now when we talk about political responsibility. By the way of his municipal company, the plumbing and sewerage ordered works, received by one company, and it is generally known that only one or two companies can work in Rijeka, it is easy to check. Just one or two. Despite the great transparency, but it doesn't matter now. Because of the poorly performed works, the bad construction organization, etc., etc. A girl died, unfortunately, and a police officer died unfortunately. That director, I think today is the director of the municipal company, no one asked the mayor for political responsibility and no one asked for his political responsibility. So much for your credibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45406	Thank you. And we have two corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45407	Speaking of additional works, the minister tried to say that at a time of the current government, far less than 2.8% of these works were completed compared to the former Racan government when additional works reportedly were concluded at 4.8%, however, I have one calculation right here from the Croatian highways. Don't think that information I'm getting and the papers are coming from nowhere. They come from Croatian highways, Croatian highways Rijeka - Zagreb and Croatian roads. So this data suggests, say, the direction of Bosil, the knot of the Holy Rock, which will say two kilometers on the basis of 10 and a half billion kuna jobs. Additional works have been increased by 322 million or 3.17% means during Racan's government as opposed to the Holy Rock knot – Longfield in 170 kilometers, the value of works 6 billion and something. The extra contracts were heavy 930 million kuna, which means 18.4% six times more than before.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45408	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you very much. Let's go, it's the honourable representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45409	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it's an incorrect assumption that only one or two companies can get a job in the city of Rijeka. The city of Rijeka was the first in the country and so far the only units of local self-government had electronic public procurement on the portal. Only one tender by the Commission for the control of procurement procedures has been invalidated throughout this period. The pool is not one, but is a pool complex within which there are a whole series of different things. Also, no one has ever filed any charges against it. Therefore, defending yourself at the expense of the city of Rijeka, the most transparent city in the Republic of Croatia in which there is not a single lawsuit is a completely missed way and I really do, Mr. Kalmeta invite you to talk about your things, not about the city of Rijeka. Here today, the subject of debate is not the city of River Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45410	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. Don't get used to it, please. It's the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45411	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There is no greater thing at this time for Croatian society than the issue of the consolidation of state institutions, their adjustment in the fight against corruption as an instrument for preserving what is left, and that is the state budget, and much more is left. Privatization is more of a done deal. One attempt to privatise that went past the law and according to old practice has been stopped. For this reason, one minister in this government had to leave the government, and for all of us, who are members of the coalition government and colleagues and colleagues who are members of the opposition at the moment, and so I understand the initiative of colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, there is nothing more to do than set up mechanisms in the state to stop further erosion, further abuse of funds from the state budget, especially through public procurement mechanisms, especially through negotiation mechanisms and, of course, different types of bargaining mechanisms. In that sense, the work that is going on will not be able to be completed either with this debate as it is likely that it will not be able to be completed with any further discussion. But when the process started and both the Prime Minister and the Government in the process saw a chance for this society to stabilise it and stop further negative economic flows and further destabilise state institutions, then it is indeed an important issue that is put before us all to ensure that the government continues to fight corruption on the one hand and on the other hand to ensure stability. And for those of us who are members of the ruling coalition, that is a key issue. At the moment, the government needs stability, not only because of members of the ruling coalition, but at the moment, the government needs stability because of the state's interest. And that is beyond a doubt, and that is what most citizens are likely to say today in Croatia, as most MPs in this House will probably say, including initiators to discuss the responsibility of Minister Calmeta. Just as indisputable as this fact that there is a need to safeguard the stability of the government at the moment, it is so indisputable that it is necessary to open all spaces to continue the fight against corruption and, in that sense, to the political stage of the Assembly, the public and any other one cannot be inaccessible, and then to those who work their business as investigative and as judicial authorities. But there's one thing we have to look out for, and that's the devaluation of that debate. And in some segments, in public space, it began to accept elements of devaluation. If everyone's guilty, if everyone's got something to say, if everyone's got something to pull out, then it's the best way to get that tunnel through which they should actually be prevented. And then actually this job that we all have to do isn't done. And for this reason, I think that it is our responsibility in the Parliament not to restrict the freedom of the media, without limiting the legitimate public interest in contributing to the seriousness of the approach: a) strategic struggles for corruption and b) increasing political culture between us and members of the government, no doubt. And in that sense, I am convinced, colleagues and colleagues, that this debate that has been launched by our SDP colleagues will contribute to both one and the other and strengthen responsibility for corrupt mechanisms and corrupt measures as well as corrupt behaviour, but at the same time to strengthen political culture when it comes to the behaviour of individual functions. This may not happen at today's session, perhaps the expectation and results that exist today, but there is no doubt and may not be achieved in that area in which people who are exhausted from corruption and from the conspiracy of corruption might want to do so today, but there is no doubt that this will be achieved to a good extent, and everyone after this debate will be given the opportunity to examine and review the measure that the government itself can contribute to the stability and its orientation to clarify the issue of corruption. Everyone. So am I, who am here behind the pay phone, and everyone else who is in a more significant position to make decisions or to monitor decisions or implement individual programs. What I think only matters is that I'm going back to that one more time. In particular, government members should not contribute to clouding this area. There were stories about the supervisory boards being just some sort of program council. Clearly, that's not the case. Clearly, it is not a good argument, either in the government's view, or in the position of anyone who calls for it. Because if that were the case, the Government would certainly not have decided that the supervisory boards would no longer be elected by political mechanisms, and that they would no longer be members of the Government, but rather go according to the professional criteria and competitions. If that were not the case, the government would certainly not have taken action in one of the companies as it had done with law a month or two ago in one sector. So, I think we're all responsible for contributing that what didn't start yesterday, either in 2007, or in 2003, began a long time ago. It started a long time ago, and I won't repeat it because yesterday was an anniversary, so from the perspective of that anniversary, I won't repeat something that was etched alive in my memory when 100 wealthy families were said and mafia mechanisms were a legitimate tool in democracy. I don't think so. The possibility created in the early '90s, that what was interpreted as social property of everyone and nobody, so that in the privatisation process it could literally be taken by anyone and didn't belong to anyone, and that there wasn't anyone who would control it, that kind of mentality, that kind of philosophy that has been passed down to today must be changed in this society. You have to know what's national. It must be known what the state is responsible for and why the state official or minister corresponds, and it must be known that what is private must be protected and clearly distinguished in this regard. And today that kind of mentality, and that kind of culture we still don't have, unfortunately. I understand this debate as a contribution and to clarify it, to shed light and to create this culture, and at the same time to give everyone a chance to examine once again the degree of responsibility for action or inaction in the things in which it could have been done. And finally, allow me colleagues and colleagues to finish what I started with. The SDSS Club, in the interest of preserving the stability of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the moment and in the interest of supporting its fight against corruption, will certainly pay attention to how further action will be done in this matter, both in this topic and in this potential responsibility. And we believe and we believe that people will know to answer the question that is being asked before them, but I do not believe that this answer will be found today, with all due respect that can be seen in this respect from the initiatives of our colleagues, which we understand, not only as well-intentioned, but as on the line of that other component that we point out, which is the fight against corruption, which we need to coordinate this moment with the stability of the government and what it has to deal with. My colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the SDSS, there is nothing more I could say about this matter than I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45412	Thank you. I have to say that the esteemed representative, the late President Tudjman, said and talked about 100 or 200 rich families, but he never said that mafia methods are legitimate methods that can be done, because during that time I was over 5 years minister of the interior and I would certainly know that he said that. He certainly didn't say that. And now, at the end of the day, we have clubs, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45413	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary. When I read the proposal these days to launch the trust of the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure to Bozidar Kalmeta, the SDP Representatives Club, I felt that from the speech, from the rhetoric of the SDP Club, there was an icy wind of past lead times, one wind of lead political indictments and political judgments, which ended first on various political tides, and then moved to courts and afterwards to theatres and sites. I'll tell you why this spirit I feel, like in that song, a cold wind with a field of pyres, how I feel it in this assembly room. Why and how? The motion to launch a trust issue with Minister Calmeta, in my opinion, and I will explain that, is drawn up in the form of indictments, political indictments and in the form of political judgments. The political indictment and political verdict were brought against Minister Kalmeta, against the government, and against the Croatian Democratic Union in this proposal. A political indictment has also been brought against the company. Croatian highways, Croatian roads, Railway Holding, Post Group, Zagreb-Rijeka highways, as well as those members of the administration who have been arrested, who are under criminal responsibility against whom criminal proceedings have been brought, political indictments have been brought against all of them and political judgments taken. They were all found guilty, accused and convicted in this SDP representative club submission. This submission does not care and neglects that there is an Article 28. The Constitution under which each person shall be considered innocent of a criminal offence until it has been established by a judicial verdict. As crown proof, political indictments and political verdicts of Minister Calmeta, the Government and the Croatian Democratic Community are taken as crown evidence, criminal proceedings against members of the Croatian Constitution and part of the director of the HAC are being initiated, so the criminal proceedings already being taken to blame, that they are responsible, the presumption of innocence from the Croatian Constitution is disregarded, and they are immediately being upgraded, these are responsible, these are now indisputable and the next step in that architecture is going towards determining responsibility based on the established responsibilities of members of the HAC administration towards the Minister of Calmeta and the Government. This is crown proof that criminal proceedings have been initiated against part of members of the HAC administration, the crown proof is that there is also political responsibility of Ministers Calmeta and the Government, as follows by the Croatian Democratic Community. Which is the legal political basis for the political indictment and verdict. I have read, I will now read what I could not believe that I would ever understand and understand in a democratic Croatia, it has never been written by respected MPs and MPs in any rigid times and events and periods, in different countries in this Eastern part of Europe. SDP representatives believe that Mr Kalmeta, as a resolute minister, has political responsibility for the suspicion of serious criminal and corrupt activities in Croatia road construction and in Croatian highway companies, Croatian Roads has this clear for the company Holding HZ, so we stop for a moment over this workshop which would not be ashamed and mildly rested by Visinski, that the minister has political responsibility for suspected serious criminal and corrupt activities in Croatia road construction and these companies in the area of road construction. So, the Minister dreams political responsibility for others, who have committed criminal and corrupt acts, and in itself it is understood that we ignore the Constitution or that someone is already guilty, that he is already responsible, so the minister bears political responsibility for the suspicions of serious criminal and corrupt acts committed by others. In ancient Rome, there was one principle in Rome, one property responsibility for the damages that would have been done by employees and for whom the employer, so-called. Culpa in eligendo, responsibility for the error of choice, responsibility for me hiring an employee in ancient Rome as an employer, one employee, and I haven't checked whether he's capable enough, qualified enough, and then he's done damage to someone else, and now I'm doing that responsibility for the election error, in choosing me as the employer for the damage that my employee, the employee does to someone third. It's a logic that was in Roman law, but in the SDP's Club of Representatives, it's not worth that logic, it's worth one other logic to blame whoever's suspected and accused and innocent is the one who determines and proves to others that he's innocent. The statement that the minister is having political responsibility for suspicions already disqualifies the indictment and the verdict to this end. Which is why he is charged on the basis of the indictment and for which the political liability has been committed by Minister Kalmeta and these all numbered companies in the area of road construction and all these numerous people covered by the investigation, by criminal proceedings with or without detention. Why are they, who is their crime, what is their crime? Their crime is seen in the fact that, as the SDP's indictment of "Croatian road construction" reads nicely in this submission, all participants in the construction of road infrastructure and significant investment buildings were created within "Croatian road construction". Participants in this corruption programme are the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, etc., "Croatian Highway", "Croatian Roads", "Autoesta Rijeka", the company Institute of Construction of Croatia, interested companies or their consortium operating in road construction. The impression, with a strong impression, that this SDP indictment says that Minister Calmeta and the Ministry, all these companies, the consortium, all these entities, the entire ministry are united in a criminal enterprise with a criminal criminal plan that the Croatian state is damaged by billions and millions of kunas. So, this indictment, but it goes on and on. It's an immediate verdict. A joint criminal enterprise based on a joint criminal plan to severely damage the property interests of the Croatian state and the state budget. That is, the joint criminal enterprise is headed by what is the criminal plan, which are its objectives, who is in that race, who are all actors and is immediately and decided. It's done, it's accomplished, it's withdrawn. That's what it says in this indictment. What will happen now in the Croatian Parliament if this is accepted? It is only enough that if the Croatian Parliament confirmed this to be forwarded to a state lawyer who could place this indictment and the SDP verdict on the stand and send it to court for trial. This is what some would want or do not want, knowingly or unconsciously, following from such a political indictment and such political judgments and such a truly phenomenal legal institution of political responsibility for suspicion. In the Soviet legal doctrine of the great Andrej Visinski, there was one principle of trial based on the guilt of those who could become dangerous to the state. So it was then placed in camps and condemned by camp’s direct courts to condemn the numerous categories of Soviet population as possible enemies of the Soviet society. Doesn't it smell a little bit like this? ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45414	Thank you. We have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45415	Thank you. It's amazing that he was now performing a fellow Shakespeare who, by interpreting his impressions, is not talking about what should be the text, but actually talking about his impressions. At school, you'd say...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45416	Excuse me, correction, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45417	Correction of an incorrect allegation, so it's not true that there's a political indictment, so listen to me, geniuses. It is not true that the political verdict was written, it is true that in this same language, former Prime Minister Sanader addressed me when I was talking about the "Brodosplit" affair, accusing me of this and that. Consequence, Sanader untraceable disappeared aboard a ship with a broken climate. Ice winds blow from Interpol, ice winds blow from the Austrian Ministry of Interior and from the money laundering office...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45418	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45419	It's a colleague of Shakespeare's sequencing of that and don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45420	Let's move on with the corrections. Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you, Marine, thank you. Please, a little peace. Now it's the honorary representative Goran Beus Richembergh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45421	My colleague, Shakespeare, apparently inspired by the conspiracy theory, you said it was a political indictment and a political verdict. I'm correcting your inaccuracy because it's only the Rules of Procedure of a defined interpellation that doesn't even seem to seem to pass here in this House, and the cold wind that's in the field of pirates you've opposed the warm breath of godmother with Mr. Calmett.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45422	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45423	So, Mr. Seks wrongly, incorrectly read and claimed that in something called the legitimate right of the works of parliamentary deputies to question and ask for responsibility in this Croatian Assembly of people in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, they have chosen to claim that it is a political indictment and verdict, that it is also a criminal enterprise. You know, Mr. Shakespeare, I really expected you to do it a lot better than this, and I'm going to tell you what it is that I think. All we're asking is that Mr. Calmett in the last six months. He was supposed to read the paper and he was supposed to listen to the news. And that's something to be obvious about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45424	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Vladimir Seks, Vice President of the House, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45425	Comrade Denon, you signed this political indictment yourself, and then you need to read it a little bit. You probably signed it without even reading it. Maybe someone pushed you to sign it because if you'd read it then you wouldn't be saying I was incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45426	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45427	Yeah. That's because I didn't say it. Well, you can't even correct me. You wrote that he was carrying... and you wrote another in that indictment, it was created by all the participants, etc. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45428	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45429	I never turned any of you off. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45430	Thank you very much. And we have yet another correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boris Shprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am sorry that I cannot highlight the replica that I can talk to Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament with Shex on this subject, so I will correct its fundamentally incorrect allegations, which is that it is the SDP indictment. This is a legal proposal to raise a question of trust to one of the ministers, in this case Minister Calmeti. And what I can say is that it's written at first and it's being taken out of context, that this is about political responsibility for the situation in the vault by three basics. Not to repeat now, we heard it here in the debate. And I would remind you this time this Croatian Parliament is a majority policy I would say that there was no problem in the truck's affair. That's what you were very proud of when you figured it out, but as we can see, we're coming. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45432	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you. Please, Your Honor, you're giving us a deal, it went well, but now you've started by correcting incorrect allegations to add opinions and attitudes and something new that isn't said. I'll tell you while I'm running a session like that I'll interrupt and it won't work like that. Thank you very much. Let's go on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I listened to all the debates on behalf of clubs and slowly recorded certain things I listened to. I'd start at the end. I belong to that younger generation who really loves this country and I want to stay in this country and I want to have children one day that will have good education in Croatia, good health care, etc. First of all, I was startled at the end of a sentence about long lead times. I'm usually a historian who's seriously digging through archival structures, funds, and scaring her to hear about black dark times, lead times. I'm not calling you Mr. Shakespeare here, but I've felt a few times so far called in this House that as a man who was 12, 13 years old when, say, Yugoslavia fell apart, it was shouting at us communists, communists. And it comes from a party whose tens of thousands of members wear or have skeletons in their closet from those old, black, lead times. No one called the first minister to speak, the Minister of Health for his speech in which I did not feel like the last thief when he said it, that his rhetoric was the same. After all, he was a student of these black lead times and a member of certain organizations in black, lead times. I'm not. Let's move on. Political responsibility has been constantly discussed here, and the HDZ is the best, most responsible political party. When Minister Polancec resigned, the prime minister said he had shown responsibility to the HDZ government. One word did not mention responsibility for Croatian citizens. And was the responsibility politically the incredible responsibility of Sanader's departure. He climbed up, I said, I ran mine, I'm going to move on. The state in charge of the government before it, unemployment just started to grow, corruption leaks all over the country, the state administration just swells up and it goes away. Was that HDZ's political responsibility back then? Here you are in two, three corrections to the quote that you are the most responsible. Now I'm going to say the next quote. My colleague Djakic and I are almost agreeing with your first correction. Let's go investigate all corruption. Let's go Brodosplit now, let's go to Verona, let's go see who's got watches, who's got yachts, who hasn't had broken kunas two years ago, today he's rich. Let's move on, let's go to 2004, third, second, let's go see everything. There was already a lawsuit about Victor Lance, right, it didn't go through, but let's see it all. And then as a younger generation of politicians, let's go back to the '90s. Let's go into conversion and privatization into those embarrassing things that actually happened tragically there, where the foundation is, could be in the '80s, however, I am personally interested in the same thing. The question of whether many people here were interested in talking about the '80s. Furthermore, let's see where the foundations of economic destruction, the moral destruction of this country actually arose. Let's talk about 200 best families just the same. About everything, let's go to the Turks for Christ's sake. All of this, if we want to fight corruption, we need to talk about it, and these people need to be sanctioned, property taken away. But with HDZ, it's fascinating how short-term memory goes to you. There goes Sanader a few months ago, already half the people have forgotten him. In the '90s, that's what the dear God doesn't talk about what happened in the '90s. That short memory was with Minister Milinovic today. It's also fascinating. It's taking a very, very short time. As for the anti-corruption fight and the fight against corruption of Jadranka Kosor, short and clear for those who are following it, who are communicating with Brussels and it is about synergy, above all the pressure of the European Union, we find the Progress report on the progress of corruption in public procurement as the biggest problem. We've been researched, we're still being investigated, and now we're looking at some kind of audit reports, whether they're faked or not, and they're going to hear more of it. In the end, it all comes from media pressure that came from employees, agencies, state-owned companies who had enough to watch what was going on, so they let the media write about it. And that's the only thing that prompted Jadranka Kosor of HDZ to go into some kind of fight against corruption. Without that question, would there be any struggle? And now here, for example, Minister Calmete breaks the tests breaking the test of a compromise fight against corruption and it becomes actually a compromise struggle. When it comes to the big beast under allegations from HDZ or personnel that it has brought to state companies that have been caught with their hands in jam, as it is said, it is not known who is responsible. There's no responsibility. What the Constitution says is that he's responsible for his portfolio is the minister that doesn't matter. You just don't know the responsibility here. So, we've heard maybe five times more that the minister offered his term six months ago. Today, the mandate is not being offered, and HDZ has brought into place the state-owned companies responsible for billions of kuna damages caused through corruption, and the minister says he did not know what was going on, maltene, that there was no control in the portfolio. Well, he was a minister for six years. Well, I guess he could have taken control in six years. If not the day has taken control, then he must leave because he has been sitting in a vault for six years whose reins are not in his hands. And the battle and that fight against corruption, now what we have when we recapture. We have billions that have left Croatian railways, HEP, HAC, that purchase of expensive electricity, Croatian roads, the door will be open, water issue, Podravka, Croatian mail, Verona, Brodosplit. All these affairs that brought all these fascinating names have been those in most cases for the past few years and are linked to the cadre brought by the ruling HDZ elite, i.e. I brought you into these companies. And now we have billions of damages that someone needs to cover and cover who? Citizens, citizens. They got the hack to pay, they got increased VAT, they need to cover the holes, and the administrations that some and replaced for responsibility received millions of severances for what and a proposal from which they paid. Again from those same citizens. My colleague Milanka Opačić said well, with the money that has disappeared so far, which has been mentioned here in billions we could have long had free education for everyone from the cradle to the grave, free health care for everyone, should not have paid additionally, billions could have been encouraged by entrepreneurship and should not have introduced any additional taxes. I get the impression that this country is reduced to one cake whose slice per slice, fetto per fete, as you will, the nick in the ham is shared by the privileged elite. That's my personal impression. And now why do I think at the SDP club that Jadranka Kosor can't fight corruption? First of all, the prime minister has been at the HDZ summit for 15 years. She saw everything that was going on in HDZ, was Evey Sanader's right hand, cutting the tapes, that is. She stood behind them when different tapes were cut and now we should believe that after 15 years she knew absolutely nothing, but now it's revealed and now there's a fight going on. There's an old folk proverb, gentlemen, "the thief is not only the one who steals the egg from the henhouse, but the one who holds his ladder," and the bogeyman and the one who stands by the side is watching and silent about it. That goes for the coalition, too, because HDZ doesn't rule the state itself. That goes for all those to be investigated. And that's true for those who have watched and kept quiet for years then, and now they're suddenly talking about fighting corruption. Short and clear. When Minister Milinovic said that, that HDZ is the edge of the fight against corruption, it was scary to me because then you invited us to be some sort of cover behind all that corruption. If we were really a blade, then the political rights of the blade and the right to fight corruption would be the entire HDZ political elite since '95. To this day, he should start answering some very, very unpleasant questions. And that's not going to happen at least not as long as HDZ rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45434	Thank you. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's listening to Mondekar's series of incorrect allegations in his debate, but inspired debate, and it's not true, Mr. Mondekar, when you listed state-owned companies, crime in this company, crime in that. I've been listening since morning to see if one, one of the largest companies in Croatia will come from the left, and that is Holding which employs 13000 people. Did you keep 10 years of Lotre Bandic when he picked up the city register? You gave him a lot of lottery, and now you want to put it all on Bandic. In fact, for 10 years, you robbed the citizens of the city of Zagreb, four times you ran for mayor of Zagreb. But if he hadn't run for president of the state, you wouldn't have replaced him today. Here's so much for your credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45436	Thank you. Time's up. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, please. Please don't throw it in the benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45437	Here I have to correct my colleague Mondekara who said that the most affair is about the last few years. But it comforted me, here's my colleague Mondekar's historian, so I believe he'll look closely into the period from 2000 to 2003 where he's the biggest, you want me to count it, I'll list it later. But from the INA, Croatian railways, great reach in the acquisition of mobile ticket collection devices and so on. So there's an incredible lot of affairs that are there archive construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45438	Correction, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45439	I said the correction that he said was the biggest affair of the last few years. That's right. Archival structure in Bajic's too. There's been an awful lot of hearing that lately you've picked up everything on the railroad, all about trains and stuff, and you'll find a lot on Pantovčak. Here, so now you've got a connection there, a link. Yes, you do. Enjoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45440	Thank you. And now we have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative and vice president of House Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45441	Well, it's not true, colleague Mondekar, your claim that the Prime Minister's responsibility should be installed while she was Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. You want to install her responsibility on the basis of the liability of objective responsibility without guilt. That's not working. There is no objective responsibility, no responsibility without guilt in this respect. If you had written a little bit differently the text of this petition, if you hadn't written it hard that it was about the indictment and the verdict, then it might be in a different language and consider it with a vocabulary to consider what is being discussed. And finally, it's not your claim that you'd foggyly put out to... The HDZ should have been responsible from 10 years and before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She may have to answer, but for what she did to create and defend the Croatian state, sovereignty and independence. So maybe you should answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45442	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to correct the incorrect allegations and the mention of Olaf again. My colleague's wrong. So Olaf had to deny doing any research at HAC. Sam Olaf denied it. Don't deceive the public. You're so young, and you're already so deceived by the public and you're still a historian. Second, when you talk about... For times, you're the heir to a party called the Communist Party, which gave to kill people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're an heir. The SDP is a party that inherited the Communist Party. You got their property, your leaders were communists. Those responsible for the murders of Croatian intellectuals. You're the heir to the party that gave you the power to kill Croatian immigration. Are you aware of that? You're a historian.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45444	Thank you. And please don't throw it out of the bench. Honorable representative Mondekar. And take it easy, man. Don't throw it away. Come on, peace. Correction, no benching. Answer the word, Your Honor. Don't throw it away. Frane, no throwing. Please. We do. Dear Representative Mondekar, please don't throw it out of the bench. I'm going to have to take some tough action, and I really don't need it. Why would he do that? Don't, don't throw. So let's get to work. Honorable Vice President, and that applies to you while you're in the bench. We're going with the corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45445	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Mondekar said Vice President Polancec did not show political responsibility to Croatian citizens. So this Croatian Parliament has chosen Croatian citizens, of course, but Vice President Polancec has shown very much responsibility by solving the biggest and most difficult problems, and one of them is, of course, the repayment of the debt to the pensioners that you denied to exist. And the pensioners are very important and important citizens. Is it political responsibility, to deny that someone's rights belong to them, and to press charges and judge that is, and my God, my dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45446	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45447	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Mondekar, if I understand correctly, you compared Croatia with cake, each of which grabs whoever they want. I'd correct that incorrect quote, she's not a cake, she's a supermarket, as someone said cash and cary, but only cary, no cash, or a washing machine, but not laundry, not dishes, but a money launderer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45448	And this is neither correction nor humorous. I don't know what it is now, but good. Let's go. So we're done discussing clubs, and we're moving on to an individual debate. Here's a solemn announcement of exactly 50 applications. So let's go with the first one. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45449	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, Minister. I'm sorry that today, in this debate in the House, there's been an apparition of the past. We seem to have nothing to discuss without going back to the past and trying to make God's future more beautiful. And as long as we stand in this way, we will not be more likable to the citizens, nor look smarter, nor benefit them. The government's testimony that I had the opportunity to look at this morning, according to its content, as evidence that someone was accused, blamed for some guilt, and I will only address the minister in further discussion and there is nothing personal. I will state my views, what I heard from the ministers today, and read in the government's statement. So I don't really consider it until the state's attorney or court finds otherwise, that there's your fault. No one else can or can assume and begin with. But we're discussing your responsibility. It's the least spoken of commanding responsibility. A colleague of mine was joking recently, so he asked me if I knew what commanding responsibility was, but... He can interpret it in any way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, he says, that's one order, the other one fits. If we start with your responsibility for the great resort you're covering, I simply cannot accept all of your claims that there is not at least a little of your political responsibility. In European countries, the Ministers gave and quits, resignations for far less of the responsibilities we are talking about today. It's your basic message that you didn't know, and that for what you did, you immediately reported it as it was in HH. Okay. But I'm sorry, for a few of these affairs that ended up raising investigative actions, starting investigations, the media has been writing for months. I expected you today to tell me that just the same day after some article in the paper you started internal surveillance systems in the vaults. I didn't hear that. So I was running internal surveillance systems. I've been looking for emergency reports from the board of directors. He called for a talk by the administration or the president of the administration and requested a special report. And then after that, if you didn't even know it, he'd ask you if they were lying to you. Now I ask you, Minister, did they lie to you when you asked them? Whether they gave you falsified reports or they gave you partial reports, that's why you didn't know everything. Second. Examples of mail, or a case of liberal... It's a last name. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The man spoke publicly a few days ago about suspicious car purchases in Croatia post office. He witnessed it publicly. So it's not tomorrow we didn't know, I'm asking if within the Croatian Post Office it's been ordered by your internal surveillance, and to take it off the agenda? It's a classic example of what's now in the media, and today it can, and maybe it's already under investigation by the State's Attorney's Office. Secondly, every week, SOA President of the State, President of the Parliament, submits a weekly report to the Prime Minister. Special consideration of organised crime and corruption. DA has information that ministers are receiving separatists for the area for which they are responsible. I am now asking you for this whole time in no week's SOE report there were any indications that later turned into an affair, not just a media affair, but one that deals with Cvitan and Bajic today, or one report is not read. I can't believe that our intelligence community didn't in any case at the time of the government, the president of the state and the president of the Parliament signaled at least in an indication that something was cloudy there. THAT responsibility in my opinion, if anything else lies in the fact that the internal surveillance system has not been well developed. You mentioned a positive example from the Croatian railways when you were warned on time and when you made the application. But there were others inside the railways, and there were other current affairs, which you didn't clearly say you were sharing applications. So I'm asking you, if you've requested internal surveillance and received reports, whether in the case of HAC they lied to you when you received the reports. It's your argument to take off command responsibility because you were deceived then, but you have to tell us. So far, no one has said, either in the government's statement, nor in the Deputy Prime Minister or you, it is an additional problem for the board of directors or boards of directors of public enterprises to dare lie to a resolute minister. Furthermore, who put these people in HAC, both in roads and in Croatian roads and in Post Office, Government. On whose suggestion? Who do they answer to? Vladi. Who are they submitting the report to? Vladi. So it's not about a system that comes before the Parliament with its reports, it's only about the government level. The second part of responsibility is, you have to take responsibility for the fact that you've proposed people who were corrupt goods. Turns out they did. It may be proven that they are not and will be released. Bajic says he has the elements to suspect they were corrupt goods. To every question the government answers Ali Baba, who was stealing in the roads? But Grandma. Who's stealing HH? But Grandma. Who steals in the post office? But Grandma. I'd say that Ali's grandmother has 40 tycoons because she can't take everything to Ali's grandmother. When that unfortunate train accident occurred, you offered your term as Prime Minister, not because of your guilt but because of moral responsibility, command responsibility. And then you acted credible to me and it was a good move, but believe me, in my court, the same elements of moral responsibility are in this too... and because of your credibility I expected that if anything else this morning, the prime minister would offer her mandate, because then it would be a really rare move recorded in Croatia that one minister twice for moral reasons or feelings of moral responsibility would do so. And to colleagues in HDZ for the way we discuss the day, just one message. Last night, so much dirty laundry was thrown out in front of the Croatian public, for people and for people who were defended here a few months ago, clapped and claimed to be the most honest when they were members of HDZ, when they left HDZ just from HDZ members, the Croatian public was covered with so much dirty laundry that no washing machine in Croatia could wash it. It's not a good message to the public. That the issue of honesty or crime, responsibility or controversial corruption is indeed what Vice President Milinovic said, the issue of party uniforms. And to defend or accuse or attack by party or color only. But it's a fact, and I'm going to end up with all those who ended up in Remetic having the same color uniform by now. Ministers without a grudge, if you had offered the prime minister a mandate this morning, no matter what she would have done, we would have really made the right move.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45450	Thank you. Now we have one correction of the incorrect quote and three replicas. The first correction of the incorrect allegations is the honourable representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45451	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's an incorrect claim that yesterday only on TV HDZ's dirty laundry came out, yesterday on television visible and that the HNS, your former mayor of Zlatar, went out with another 7. You could also see Cacic, Ferenchaku, and Djuraku a lot of nice things in yesterday's shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45452	We have the replicas of the now respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45453	You've presented a whole series of allegations you're trying to convince Minister Calmet that he misjudged when he decided to defend himself this way until the last minute. And the situation is so desperate that people started talking jokes, I don't know if you heard a joke about how the construction fund got the job. He says they came to the HAC to sign the contract and report a job has been done. They come from the HAC and see that only half of the tunnel pipe is painted, people say this is only half painted, and they say you don't read the contract, it says the Construction Fund on the one hand, and the HAC on the other side agreed to paint the tunnel. We painted our side and you painted yours or give us another 22 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45454	Look, the debate in the House is very serious, and I have to tell you that the replica you gave has nothing to do with the fundamental exposure of the honourable representative, don't throw it away, you have no right to argue with the chairman, calm down. And we have no right to turn Parliament into jokes. If you want to tell jokes, go outside and keep talking. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45455	Thank you. Goran, I'm not gonna answer with a joke, but I'm gonna do one thing, one thing that's terribly important to me, thing. There is no Mr. Deputy Prime Minister now, if he says so, we would have to develop to perfection a system of early cancer detection, in his portfolio. In all other restaurants, the perfect early detection system for corruption risk is indeed the best prevention, and I must remind myself that the only report on the National Anti-Corruption Council in the Assembly was rejected. I'm sorry that you didn't come to the session at the time to hear many, many good proposals that went only in the direction of developing early detection of corruption risk. I've seen and heard that after that, a series of these proposals and more than that, you started to implement. And this debate of mine that way should be interpreted because whoever instead of you sits down my approach would be the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45456	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45457	Thank you. Mr. Lesar you spoke of commanding responsibility and I must remember that because of this commanding responsibility our honorable generals are located where they are. So ignorance doesn't justify it. It's a legal formulation, especially a ignorance that represents carelessness for taxpayers' money. I'd ask myself, Mr. Lesar, what if the HAC was a private firm and some kind of director, and there are 30, I made contracts without the owner's knowledge. So how would the owner react, let's say, in this case, to the analogy of Minister Calmeta, if that's what the directors do to him and it's a private firm? Then how would you react? I'm saying I didn't know. Therefore, ignorance does not justify, I speak in terms of political and moral responsibility, and for that other potentially criminal liability, they have legal systems so let them do their job in that I do not interfere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45458	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45459	Comrade Boro, question of knowledge, ignorance of what was going on. I, in this context of knowledge or ignorance, must publicly resent the reason for the shift of the HAC Administration. What you said publicly sounded like you replaced them because of climate change or global warming. Of course, I didn't believe in those interpretations at the time, as I don't believe today. And because of that, you see this is now an example that it's not good to run away from the fact that something that had to have resulted in their replacements, maybe sooner, but... And if you'd come out with those arguments then, the public pressure would have been less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would certainly be smaller because it would show preparedness after the internal discovery of the problem you entered..., but this explanation that due to climate change the HAC administration had been removed was difficult to swallow at least without a good background before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45460	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would say that I fully agree with you that this is extremely serious matter and that we should not joke here at all. Mr. Lesar, I do not agree with you that you need the questions that you have listed, to be directed to Mr. Secretary, I disagree. He's not the one who needs to answer those questions right now. He's us. Now it's our responsibility. You probably like me, like all the media, have countless documents that can easily prove that honest people within the public business system have long warned Mr. Minister of numerous failures. I'll just read you some of them from 2, 3 years ago. The fact that this and this gentleman, the director of the sector, has not acted on the findings of internal control is a serious offense, especially when he is still obstructing internal control with the help of the board members and so on, etc. Furthermore, this gentleman has named his associates as key places of persons who do not meet the required conditions, difficult working pasts, or punished by disciplinary measures, etc., at 30, 40 p.m. The text was already known by the minister at the time with the help of the secretary of state who was sitting clearly in those bodies. And what was done? Nothing, it's our responsibility now. Trust me, buddy, it's our responsibility. This is a little unserious. What we're doing, I can't agree with this kind of work, and I don't think this can end well together. Namely, if it's only 10% of the information that I'm dealing with exactly, then we have to seriously imagine what and how.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45462	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45463	My colleague Doric, I will not be able to agree with you that it is our responsibility now because it would be with the situation of one order, and the other is responding. I don't feel at all responsible for this situation we've found ourselves in, nor accept that the thesis in which my colleague Chehok earlier seems to have told me there are no yours and our thieves. Come on, if I accept it, there aren't ours and yours, but dangerous thieves who are equally damaging to this country, but the difference is that every government sets its own, and then by that principle there are theirs and ours. But the question of taking responsibility I would be willing to do that if the Government of the Parliament had asked for help in the anti-corruption fight, and we are now in a situation where we continue to help fight corruption as quickly as possible, as effectively as possible and therefore I have said, but also believe me that you would be personally happy that by the end of the term we do not have to discuss any more responsibility, this, this responsibility for any minister. This would indeed be the greatest contribution that such parliamentary debates should no longer be but to solve problems where they have arisen. We here now have to solve it because we're trying to solve it because it didn't get rid of it where it came from.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45464	Thank you. And now it's individual debate, second, distinguished representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45465	Are we discussing today whether Minister Calmeta should step down or not? This is not just a debate about Calmeta. This is a debate about Croatia. This is a debate about whether or not we respect the Constitution. The constitution is clear here. The 114th article says the minister is personally responsible for his work area. Not for your work, not just for your work, for the field of your work, for the condition in your vault. Is the HAC in your vault? Yes, it is. Was that where people ended up in custody because they were stealing because there was corruption? They did. What are we talking about next, Minister Calmet? The government has made it clear in its statement that it does not respect the Constitution at all, the constitutional 114th article, as the government says it cannot seek the political responsibility of the minister due to concrete failures, persons at the operational level. So the government believes Article 114 should not be applied in Croatia. The government gave up the same thing. The government wants to be a continuum authority. You see, Minister Calmett, six months ago, you didn't think so, you respected the Constitution. You offered your resignation because of that train accident in the Rudins, and there was an accident because there was a weed spraying there with some kind of means that then caused that train brake inability. You did not buy the means, nor did you stop it, and yet you offered to resign. So why did you offer your resignation? Well, because you applied article 114. The Constitution. Because you were aware of your political responsibilities. No guilt, no criminal guilt, your political responsibilities. There's been a circus in your vault and you've offered your resignation. The prime minister didn't realize what you were actually saying, and that's where she refused. It proves he doesn't realize today when he signs this argument. Because she doesn't know what political responsibility is. She does not know what Article 114 means. The Constitution. This isn't just a debate about you, Minister Calmet. With this debate and its decision today, Croatia is at a crossroads. It must be decided by this House, elected MPs must decide whether we are going into the glib of corruption, crime, robbery of irresponsibility, or whether we will be responsible and honest. Today you back up after there's been pig shit going on in your vault. And it happened. So to encourage everyone else to continue with such pigs, not just in your vault in anyone's. So to the other ministers, to the members of the government, no matter what happens in your portfolio, you're not going to answer anyway. If they catch by chance, they catch, then they'll go to jail, and the minister will never happen. Do you understand Minister Calmeta what your responsibility is today? You are today in a position to send a message of responsibility and honesty or to miss it. This isn't just a debate about you, Minister Calmet. You'll go away I'm sure of it, today or in a month. It's a matter of time. Well, that's what your coalition partner Pupovac told you who, speaking on behalf of the SDSS Club, said I'm not sure this issue will be resolved today, but I believe he'll be resolved soon. You will leave as Roncevic has gone, as Polancec has gone. And HDZ defended them, so they put their hand in the fire for Roncevic, their hand in the fire. All efforts were made to prove his honesty and good work. He ended up with the charges and was removed. They were defending Polancec, and they were totally defending him. Until that defense became pointless. When the circle of indications was squeezed around Polancec, he had to leave. Don't let the Ministers of Calmet know that they'll be different with you, Olaf came to Croatia, he rips you one by one. The question when is which turn is that only question. This, of course, is not just a debate on Calmeta, this is a debate on Prime Minister Kosor and she is in a position to confirm her thesis that she is a great anti-corruption and crime fighter in Croatia. This is her chance. No one has ever mentioned her in the context of corruption, robbery, crime, converted this one, that one. Today in Croatia, she figures as a completely clean person. By signing this argument, by refusing to relieve you, and having pigs in your vault is difficult. She has lost credibility and will find it difficult for her to be in front of the foreign public, in front of foreign ambassadors who are monitoring this debate, to prove that such a anti-corruption fighter is as represented. Too bad for her, too bad. He'll leave her in her position. You're weakening the Prime Minister's position. She's not gonna be trusted anymore. This is not just a story about Calmeta, this is a story about all of us here in the Parliament. We've been chosen, ladies and gentlemen, we've been chosen. So ask yourselves, why have we been chosen? Who are we chosen from? Well, we've been chosen by the citizens. So why? So to protect the minister whose resistors were pigs or to say no, no. No matter what minister he is, no matter what strong foothold he has in his party, no matter how many mandates he has brought to his electoral unit, but if the pigs have happened to him in the vault, he must leave. Well, that's why people chose you. People expect the same thing from you, the same people who chose you, each one of you. This isn't a debate about the Minister's guilt. The blame is decided by the court and therefore the debate of Shakespeare has been completely missed, that this request is a charge, a conviction and a conviction. We're not us, we're a political body. We decide political responsibility. You Ministers of Calmeta can settle this issue today, now. Now you can go out for a pay phone and resign. You have become a burden to this government, you have become a burden to the state, you have become a burden to coalition partners, and do not cultivate the illusion that both government and coalition partners will long bear the burden. You've increased the pressure on their backs. They'll take you off those backs like they took the Polancec off. But Minister Calmeta, decide whether you stay in your position, and then help these brothers out there paint another tunnel or you'll take care of the stability of this government, the reputation of the country in the world. Will you do anything for the sake of your patriotic feelings that I have no doubt today make the right decision and step down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45466	Thank you. You really answered the last minute, but you did, you did. Let's make corrections to incorrect allegations first. I can't even add them up. Dear representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45467	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Stazic cites a claim that is definitely incorrect and says, "The Prime Minister doesn't know what political responsibility is." That's not true. On the contrary, the prime minister is very well aware of what political responsibility is because she has gone into a sharp deal with corruption, as she has faced key issues of Croatia's present and future. In addition, it highlights spiritual values that must not be left to the acts of chaos but rather clear and true values that it places in the heart of the Croatian man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45468	Thank you. The second correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed representative of Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Stazic, it's a really sad train accident to call it a circus because four times in this House you've repeated the pighouse. I don't think this is a house where words like that should be used. This is the correcting of your inaccuracy. What? You said, "You will leave as Roncevic and Polancec left." He won't leave, Mr. Stazic, he won't leave. I've worked in local self-government for 15 years. In 2000, you brought the Chief of Police and these methods are very well known to me. For every job in my Benkovec, I've been invited to an informed conversation. So that's the same method you want to apply today. So it's incorrect that Mr. Kalmeta will leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45470	A false allegation, the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect claim that with this debate and the support of Minister Calmeti as well as the Prime Ministers, we are moving on to the fungi of corruption and crime. That's absolutely incorrect. We're going to stabilise and strengthen the government and deal with crime. And we cannot allow you, with your party convictions, to blame everyone who works honestly, honestly, and who has been willing to deal with crime and who is counting on crime. You weren't prepared, and we can't let you come back and produce such a crime as it was at the time of your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45472	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the inaccuracy of fellow Stazic, who said the prime minister lost her dignity because she did not replace Minister Kalmet. That's not true. Comrade, lower yourself a little among ordinary people, among the citizens, and you will see the dignity and respect of the current prime minister among the people, what is the attitude of the people towards the prime minister and vice versa. And at the end of the day, as usual, my colleague said poetically, this is a story about all of us, so I wouldn't be surprised if the SDP asked for a break, to wear some T-shirts, and to be written by them, we're all Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45474	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45475	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct my fellow Stazic's incorrect claim about when he said the people in HAC were stealing. Well, I don't think that fits the truth, because these people have not yet been proven guilty. It also confirms that the truth is what you are based on your proposal, which is doubt. On the basis of doubt, you can neither judge nor accuse anyone. And that's not why the people chose us in this House as colleagues to condemn and accuse and condemn us on the basis of suspicion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45476	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45477	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It incorrectly states MP Stazic that Prime Minister Kosor will lose credibility in the fight against corruption because she did not ask for Minister Kalmeta's release. On the contrary, Prime Minister Kosor will retain and have legitimacy for the reasons that she has passed laws in this and previous government, empowered institutions that are seen to work independently every day. And if her legitimacy depended on whether she met the political wishes of the SDP, then she probably wouldn't have that legitimacy until she replaced all the HDZ ministers and herself, so let the SDP run the country fairly as it did in 2000 to 2003 when those institutions absolutely didn't function or had a legal basis for it, so apparently there were no irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45478	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45479	Thank you very much. Namely, I would like to correct Mr. Stazic's incorrect claim that we are at a crossroads today and decide whether we will choose what he says about glib and corruption or responsibility and honesty. That's not true. We are at a crossroads today either to support Minister Calmeta and the Croatian Government on the one hand or to accept on the other hand this political pamphlet of SDP to destabilise and bring down the government. Because it is not the aim of Minister Kalmeta of this political pamphlet and this whole debate today, but rather the purpose and purpose of the Croatian government and the Croatian Democratic Community.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45480	Thank you. Now we have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative of Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45481	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm correcting Mr. Stazic's guilty allegations that he's precisely claiming to be gentlemen and related to the HAC in custody. But he also claimed immediately as a cowboy with four guns, found guilty and said they were guilty. It is absolutely incorrect at this moment, but the style and manner of speech itself speaks enough about itself, and by the way the methodology and way of talking to the distinguished representative is more like a tavern than a Assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45482	I also thank the correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45483	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting Agent Stazic's guilty allegations. The truth here is how to destroy the truth, create an affair, and there you are. But that's nothing new I'll remind you of something. When Mary, in Bethany, anointed her feet with expensive ointment, rebelled one of his disciples, saying, “Why is this fat sold and 300 dinars given to the poor, ” and St. Ivan commented on this statement, "That's not what he said that he would care about the poor, but he was a thief holding a bag and stealing what was placed in it." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45484	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45485	Thank you, dear fellow Stazić, for mentioning earlier the European Anti-Corruption Body Olaf, who is actually studying the evidence and extracts as you paintly said one by one responsible for the affair. I'd like to remind you of the Brodosplit affair or if there's anything in common about the heist in Haak and with the Brodosplit affair. In fact, I'm sure and we're all safe here that the affair would certainly have been archived if it weren't for the Austrian Interpol, also so that the Brodosplit affair wouldn't have been if it weren't for that very body, so the HAC affair wouldn't have been if there wasn't actually Olaf of this anti-corruption body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45486	The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45487	Exactly what you said, the best testimony to this government's sincere intention to deal with corruption and crime. She does it when she has to, when all the evidence comes out in the paper, when there's nothing left to hide anymore, when it's simply impossible under the carpet, in the drawer, to hold an affair that burdens the government. The honest intentions are gone, proven by Brodosplit, but also proves the affair trucks, five years should have seen what could be seen the first day. I don't believe Prime Minister Kosor, but I can see that she doesn't trust Minister Calmeti either, she didn't come here today to defend him, they say she's on her way, but that's not why she didn't come here, she didn't even list herself as the person on behalf of the government to defend Calmet. She's obviously ashamed, she doesn't have the arguments to defend him, so now she's sending a Shuker who's gone, and she sent Darko Milinovic around the halls somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45488	Your Honor, it is certainly not the Prime Minister's shame, nor any minister, and let us not argue in such a way because it is not correct. Let's move on. Dear Minister Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45489	Here's a short, esteemed dear representative. You said that they happen as you say they are, it's true, but you forgot one other thing that as you say pigs, they discover that they are being processed and that I'm in the detection of some of those pigs I've been learning about and I got the first signal and I've been involved in the exposure of these pigs. So that's what we agree on. Just that you added this second, which is that they are found to be sanctioned, to be processed, to imagine that, I will not go back, but imagine that there has already been a speech, that before there was no pigery, that everything was clean, that I can say whether or not you covered them up or today my colleague Stazic, you will not say a word about the City of Zagreb, you will not say a word about the city of Rijeka, you will not say a word about the town of Koprivnica, where the mayor, is constantly something loud, there is no lately see it. You will not say a word of it, nor will you say a word of it about the jeweler. So, I accept criticism and accept responsibility, I'm not mad at anyone who criticizes me, I'm not mad at you either, Mr. Stazic, I just want ok, we're talking about, as you say to the pigs, or we're talking about what's going on, but we're talking about everyone not just yours, not ours, not just ours, but yours. That's all I'm asking you to do. And finally, I don't know if I'm still going to have a chance, I hope I will, I repeat what I said at the beginning that this government with the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, has shown and expressed an unequivocal political will and results in the fight against corruption. I remember your conversation before nothing is done in the fight against corruption, nothing, nobody, nothing is revealed, nothing is processed, nothing is wrong. Today, when it is revealed, when it is processed when all such assumptions are created that it is indeed, and when everything is depolitical when every institution is doing its job without the influence of politics and when there are results today is no good again. In your opinion today, the minister needs to be replaced again, the government needs to be replaced, or as your colleague Leko said, we will not have the entire government one by one. That's what your colleague Leko said. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45490	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45491	So listen, it's not exactly true that I wouldn't discuss all these other pigs just have to come up on the agenda, today you're on the agenda. Second inaccuracy. It is not true that these questions of political responsibility were not before, for example. at the time of Racan's government. So Minister Stavivic Rukavina resigned because of the filter code... Neither did those filters, nor did she get the filters, that's what HZO got. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's been a breach in her ministry. Second day of resignation. That's what responsible people do. What we asked of Stavnic Rukavin, that's what we're asking of you today. It's just... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45492	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45493	Mr. Vice President, I suggest you grant us a 10-minute break so we can arrange for the session to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45494	It's a deal. So 16, we move on at 16.25. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45495	Ladies and gentlemen, continue the session. During the session there shall also be a vote for the members of the National Attorney's Council, and the Club of Representatives of the SDP... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, let's go to the deal that will... Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So as far as the point ahead of us is concerned, I personally think she's headed for the wrong address. It's pointed to the wrong address, and I'd say with the wrong explanation and a pamphlet they couldn't be ashamed of...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45497	Just a little buddy, we still have to do something. Come on, ten minutes to vote, and then we'll continue the debate. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am going to pick up where I just tried. In fact, it is quite certain that what the SDP and the signatories of this document were looking for, that it was completely searched the wrong way and in the wrong address. The wrong address is Mr. Calmeta. Why? Because no one brings him personally into any relationship with any possible illegal activities. So, Mr. Kalmeta has not been brought into any document by any state institution dealing with the investigation of any corrupt acts, so he has not been brought into contact with anyone they are investigating. It's the first wrong address. The second wrong address is the government of the Republic of Croatia, which many have called for because it stood behind Minister Calmeta because it is the government of the Republic of Croatia that has made it possible for corruption to be counted in Croatia at all. And it's been made possible in the last few years. The mechanisms and USKOK have been strengthened, the mechanisms of the State's Attorney's Office have been strengthened, assumptions have been created that a good fight against corruption could be carried out, and this has been done by the HDZ government along with its coalition partner. Furthermore, it is completely wrong and the way the SDP is looking for it. In fact, what was brilliantly dismembered by a fellow vice president of the Parliament, Mr. Shakespeare, saying that this reminds him of lead times. In the lead times in which the party and the party court made advances without having been verified and without being based on facts and making accusations and at the same time making judgments. That's the case we have before us today. Today we have a sentence that he has set out and that needs to be repeated because the Croatian public needs to understand what this is about. a sentence that says that Mr. Calmeta's political responsibility is needed on suspicion, because of someone's suspicion. So, not because of proven guilt, but because of someone's suspicion. And there is a tragedy that today in a democratic society such as Croatia is still trying to work on methods of the communist, totalitarian and criminal regime. What does this verdict and the indictment remind me of? Reminds me of one charge, I'm sorry there's no young colleague of Mondekar who said he was a historian, is there? Now you'll hear your colleague continue that story from a moment ago. I'm sorry you obviously misunderstood what I said, but I'll say it now. This verdict and this indictment, which was drawn up by the SDP, reminds of the same verdict and the indictment that was drawn up in 1944 when communists killed over 40 Croatian intellectuals in Daxi. Without any judgment and no guilt, no court and no guilt, preventively, probably preventively, it was the priests, the friars, Croatian intellectuals. So it was people who had nothing to do with fascism or Nazism. As much as some of them had something to do with antifascism. Some of them were anti-fascists because the Italians shut them down, locked them up in Prevlaza because they were anti-fascists. So the fascists of the Italians put those people away and they were later killed on Daxie. But what matters is what it reminds you and this thread lasts is that the letter that today is the document in the archive and I am asking you and calling you to find it, find it, because it is available and published in some books. Where it is clearly signed by Ante Jurjevic Baja and that document, which some of the SDP colleagues are laughing at, are clearly written by you and you and those communist opponents, intellectuals. And at the end of the last sentence, it says, "Anyhow, kill them must be killed." And unfortunately, these people died in Daxie without a court of law. It was later announced that there was a mistrial, etc. which is not true it was subsequently published because there was a need for justification, because all of Dubrovnik was buzzing about it. So Ante Jurjevic Baja signed that sentence. So when we talk about the lead times that we're talking about here, then we really need to remind ourselves of the topics... that are unfortunately used.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45501	Comrade Matušić, let's get closer to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45502	Fortunately, it won't have such tragic consequences, because it certainly doesn't matter what you put in your reasonings. And Shime has something to do with your credibility as a colleague of the SDP. Because if you were credible then you would be based on the judgment of Eduardo Nodil, who was sentenced to 7.5 years in prison for ruining the Rijeka Bank, you could have raised the question of the political responsibility of your current mayor, Private Obersnel. Why? Because he was on the Supervisory Board of the Rijeka Bank when that embezzlement took place and stole that $100 million. And we should rightly ask where that $100 million is? Is it also in Private Obersnel's pocket? But if you were credible then you'd say convicted is Edad Nodillo's man for a $100 million robbery and on the board of directors was sitting in Vojko Obersnel. Where's your political responsibility? Or another story, another case. The road we've been talking about all day. Mr. Calmeta has made it clear about the price and millions, and I'm going to say something about the construction of the small chapel tunnel. Here's a document called the report, which was made by the Independent Department of Internal Control in the Croatian highways. In 2002, Croatian highways signed a contract with... worth 261 million kuna. A few months later in the 12th month of the same year, an additional contract was signed that obliges the contracting authority to pay the advance even though it was prohibited by a basic contract of 24 million kuna. But what is most tragic in 2003 in the 7th month is obliged by the client to pay the performer 48 million kuna premiums, because the performer will complete the construction of the Mala Kapel tunnel a month before the construction of the tunnel. So in the 7th month of 2003, it is known that the performer will complete the Mala Kapela tunnel instead of the end of December 2004 at the end of November 2004. So they were psychics. They were very psychic when they predicted it. But for that, they paid them a premium of almost 20% of the jobs they contracted. So 48 million kuna. The question arises, who did the 48 million kuna of the premium go to? Who was paid with those 48 million kunas? Who stole 48 million kuna premiums? Who do you... share 48 million kuna premiums with? Watch out for deadline cuts was 3%. So one month was 3% of the agreed 3%, and the premium for that 3% reduction was 20% of the agreed amount. 48 million kuna. Should we doubt whether it's stealing, that it's about money? We need and I hope that the state's attorney's office that I believe listens to this debate follow up on this memo and ask for documentation on these matters. And it's well known who sat in the ministry and other institutions at the time. So that's another case. Next case of the Ministry of Interior of the Ministry of Interior. A very interesting case that we can compare with some subsequent events. The MUP acquired 210 fire trucks at the time of Racan's government and in what way. The competitions were first launched and received a price of 81m euros and one other, which was 20m euros less than 60m euros. After that knowledge, the MUP annulled the tender and then concluded a contract with a company that was more unfavourable. So a more unfavourable offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45503	It's good. Okay. Thank you. Ladies and Mrs. Tomljenović, Hursa, Simunović, Denon, Korusec and Soja will go to the boxes. Count it. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here after this long debate today, let's try to recapture why SDP is today seeking the political responsibility of Minister Calmet. Well, they've been getting so sweet these days, because they've been attacking and they've had a prescription, the ministers are provoking resignation, one by one, and then they get to the authorities and crash HDZ without a choice, because they've failed multiple times in the election. But they have recalculated on the government's political responsibility and this minister will be declared by citizens in the 2011 elections on a regular basis. Citizens also said in 2003 when they said what they thought about the SDP government in 2000, 2003. HDZ won, brought its anti-corruption programme, its general government programme, and the government's programme was under review again in the elections, ahead of citizens in 2007 when HDZ again won. In this term, the HDZ government has promised that in two mandates and a pre-election programme it has passed a series of laws, a series of programmes and made major steps in the fight against corruption. On the political responsibility or political merits of Minister Kalmeta, the citizens also pleaded in the elections in such a way that in the election unit where he was headed for the 14th term, the list was given 10 seats, that it received 60% of the vote in the local elections. But here's a proposal for what it's like, the way we all saw it. According to MP Stazic, the debate between Vice President Seks on behalf of the MP club has been completely missed. Just the other way around, Mr. Track. Mr. Shex's debate is just pointing to the essence, which is that the political responsibility of the minister is sought on the basis of the criminal responsibility of some other people who are only at the stage of the investigation, so at the stage of the basic doubt, and what is this proposal doing. The methodology of making the proposal itself has a formula accused without undermining facts, shapes almost as a matter of clarity and insight and leaves no room for disputation and therefore assumes the role of the judge and rules immediately, and even takes a step further, also seeks political responsibility that no one should say anything about. Because like the ancient Romans, Rome says there is no debate. So in such circumstances, with such a proposal flat-rate without any concrete, concretely supported evidence, the SDP is seeking, it would discuss the political responsibility of Minister Calmeta. And why is that? By referring to the provision of Article 114. The constitution, however, says it is the minister and members of the government, are jointly responsible for the government's decisions and personally responsible in its field of work. Fellow Members and colleagues, this means that the minister is personally responsible for his ministry's portfolio, that the resort is functioning. But not from far away that the minister can be held accountable for each individual shop, each employee in his portfolio, not to mention that this ministry has about 40 public companies within that ministry. So it's just impossible. What Minister Calmeta did today is mentioned here with the mockery. So he cleared the HAC administration. Why? Because communication did not allow for further work. And that's what the minister can and can do. Because let's not forget, only after that has the attorney's office launched an investigation, detained certain people, etc. But based on that information the State's Attorney's office can have, and the minister can't. Today, it is said, also presidential candidate Mrs Pusic speaks with a mockery of people who are in custody and boasts that her party counterpart Cacic has not been processed, although the parliamentary confidence found that he was in conflict of interest, the fact of abuse of the position has been established, as jobs worth 600 million as ministers have given to his own company. That's the problem, colleagues and colleagues. Why? It was not processed because there was no political will, because there was no legal tools for persecution, they did not adopt the necessary regulations and because they were not strong and self-restrained institutions that needed to act. It is therefore not good for us today to serve and advertise former Minister Cacic as some sort of example or desirable form of behavior. It would be better if some MPs asked their party colleague Cacic to answer us and to agree with the coalition partner then, so whether the compensation for MOL's management rights was paid or how Mr Jurcic said it wasn't paid, so when they agreed whether it was paid or not to tell us where your money was as you like to tell us who stole it or where they ended up. Or Minister Kalmeta should answer, for example, because in HZ after some HZ employees received documentation on the suspicion of corruption, he reported and forwarded the materials to UsKOK and asked USKOK to investigate what it was about. Is it because some of the people to whom corruption suspicions have happened to be members of the SDP, so now in this SDP proposal it points to the fact that HH as a system does not work well, that the bad situation in the railway system has not been invested since 2003, etc. etc. How bad it is in the railroads we see. Therefore, an increase in the number of passengers from 2003 to 2008 100%. Weight tonne increase from 2003 to 2008 25%. Growth in productivity 58%, investment of over 3 billion kuna compared to 500 million in the time of the SDP government, and half of this proposal says nothing was invested in the railways during HDZ. Furthermore, the government's fight against corruption and what the promoter says and what Mr Jovanovic says is that this government is talking about a zero-tolerance rate on corruption, but that it only comes down to paper and small fish. On the contrary, this Government of Continuity, the HDZ government, has adopted, as many times already said, a number of legal regulations, strengthened human and material institutions. Thus, the Transparency International chart shows since 2001, since the perception of corruption has fallen, so that corruption is more and more until 2005 when it suddenly begins to increase and has the best score since the date in Croatia. So, the result of exactly such a government policy is that today Mr. Jovanovic can speak freely of a series of affairs he loves very often and speaks very well using his position often as president of the National Council. But why would he do that? It's precisely because this government and this House passed a law where an opposition representative is headed by that council. There was no such law at the time of the SDP government. At the time, HDZ's representative as a representative of the strongest opposition party could not be the head of a commission that would oversee the fight against corruption, of course, because it did not fight. And if we could do that then maybe then we could talk about 50 million government guarantees, the SDP government's private company, Victor Lenac, owned by a gentleman who's a close friend of the then president and vice president of the government. They might tell us where those money went, where it evaporated. Maybe a little less talk about a little bit of vitre, maybe some other yachts. We could talk about who was on the bank's supervisory board when 100m euros were embezzled, today legally convicted. But that's where we got the river recipe, but I don't have time, because also don't give us God's river recipe, no matter how much GONG says it's transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45505	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just when I thought we had reached a consensus that corruption has no party colors and features, when we start talking about concrete things, we return to ideological trenches even World War II. It is not enough for us to share ourselves, but then we remember the experiences of the Soviet Union. I really admire people who still live that once upon a time, I thought the past lives that were left behind. But history in these areas lives and we have to face it. I'm not going that far back in the past. I'll be back maybe three years ago. I'm not a prophet, I'm not a visionary, I'm not looking at a magic ball, I'm just thinking rationally and I'm still able to add up two and two. Two plus two with me is four, with the director of the Croatian highway it could be six, and it could be three. Depends on how they fit. Three years ago, I said that the affairs in Croatia will be road construction, as it is the largest infrastructure project around which the biggest money revolves will be the noose around the neck of the current government. We saw what happened to the former prime minister. We'll find out what's the main cause of his sudden leaving the prime minister's post. We're not speculating. But with this government decision today's road construction affairs can be the noose around the neck and the continuation of the former HDZ government, or the government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Because this isn't about painting tunnels, one tunnel, another tunnel, 20 million kunas, or driving some cars. If all the damage was in that, we'd say it was incidents, no one should have known about it. Those who are responsible will answer. But this isn't about a few dozen million kunas. This is where it works, the data from the State's Attorney's Office could be read 6 to 8 billion kunas. So almost a billion euros in these 6.7 years ended up somewhere she shouldn't have ended up. The state's attorney's office and the competent institutions need to determine where it went. We are here talking about the political responsibility of the people who have been in charge, both the ministries and state-owned enterprises. Let's remember, it doesn't turn out that we're Alice in wonderland. Three years ago, I was talking, and that's where it started. The people themselves, employees from the Croatian highways, Croatian roads, often members and HDZ delivered materials where they talked about things that shouldn't have happened. We're on the road to Gazenica-Zadar. It is never answered to the ordinary question why the road that was supposed to cost 283 million kuna, which was said to be cheaper by changing the route, below 200 million kuna, in a numbered competition came to 453 million kuna, and could eventually be read that with the purchase of land, its value came to 660 million kuna. From 283, or 200 to 660 million. How is it that because of the affair of trafostations, because the money for the stock was not there, because of the affair of trafostations and 300 million kunas went away the leading man of the Croatian electroprivreda, while at the same time the director of Croatian roads became the director of Croatian highways. Or we'll move on. The Rijeka-Zagreb highway. I would pray at last, I wish State Secretary Livakovic were here. He rarely responded correctly, but at least he tried to answer something. But all these years, I can't hear why a firm that got a job in a contest, let's leave that 30% higher than planned. Let's leave aside that it was a big affair. 11 tunnels because Strabak complained, because he had a better price for tunnel equipment. Let's put all this aside, but give me a final answer, you who are experts, because I'm a layman, as highway directors say we don't know anything, but to have someone answer me how the companies that signed up for the contest didn't go through in that contest... Later they appear as performers. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] The argument that it was a tender, that it was the money of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is no argument. That's also the European problem then. And for this reason, it investigates, or determines the references to the truthfulness of Olaf. Which is why we didn't do it. We have a law on public procurement that we're constantly calling for, but that someone says it's normal. The company competes, loses in the competition, and then appears on certain shares as a performer. And at the same time, there's a "Storage" that doesn't appear anywhere in the tender documentation as a performer. In the end, she gets almost the most of the jobs. Or, say, Macelj Road, the Croatian border, 762 metres long, 156 million kuna. The second offer was 74 million kunas that were rejected for technical reasons. So a good master in the house when he's building a house, and he's got a 100 million planned, I don't know anything, the euro, if he gets an offer of 200, 100,000 euros, if he gets an offer of 200,000 euros, then he'd be a fool to accept that offer. Well, I guess they'll go looking for new performers to come up with a price of 100, 120 or 80 where they'll assess what's more worth it if it's a quality or a cheaper product. Or let's take the Zagreb-Sisak highway that jumped from 1.8 billion kuna to 4.4 billion, without the shovel being buried yet. The arguments we've heard here and that it's about the contests. Yeah, it's a contest, but it's a set-up. We have a simulation of market competition. In such competitions prices increase, and then they increase further with annexes, and jobs are shared with similar ones. I'm saying all of this on the basis of these 4, 5 examples, and there could be even more. And why no one takes material from the former head of the administration, Mary Nigger, who just shows how years went by prices grew enormously. With 4m euros per km of highway in 2004, we came to 5, 6, and now we plan to build, say, towards Sisak for 12m euros. There's one stock, just to find it, the Little Prolog-Ploche 13.8m euros. What kind of argument do we get? That it is an extremely difficult ground, that it is about tunnels, underpassers, overpassers and I don't know what it is, but somebody answer me why the Zagreb-Sisak road, we know what the plain-based terrain is, costs 12 million euros, and let's say Beli Manastir-Osjek 9 million, and Zagreb-Lipovac 4 million euros? How does that make a difference? It's three times as high as it's been built before. What kind of road is that? From gold, maybe? What are the consequences? It's built up expensive and it's built unquality. Maybe I haven't said this here yet, now for the first time. The number of victims per billion train km in the EU is 3.5 people. With those of us who have the most, thank God, highways per capita, the number of victims means that one billion train miles is 18. Why? Because experts themselves will say that non-quality material that does not pass atheists is being built in, and everyone knows it, and all the kickings go through. Since the red light turns on, I'm going to lock it up. I think it's good, maybe I'm different from some of my colleagues, to keep the minister in office. We know why. And I would conclude, or I would appeal to all of us that if we already swear in Croatia that we all truly love that we do not rob it for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45507	And Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45508	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must remind you, in fact, that the minister is a very senior state official who has rights, but also has obligations. These rights and obligations are regulated by the Constitution and those rights and obligations are regulated by the Government Act. And therefore, colleagues and colleagues claim that the minister did not know or that the minister had nothing to do with the fact that he was missing Mr. Vice-President of the constitutional provision on what the minister should do. I don't really want to talk about the responsibility or irresponsibility of Prime Minister Calmeta. I want to talk about the constitutional provision and about one political principle, the principle of responsibility and with it, in fact, the principle of trust. First of all, political trust. On page 2. 2. The government's statement stands for colleagues and colleagues in this formulation: "Therefore, political responsibility cannot be sought by the minister because of specific failures, corruption or other unfair actions of persons at the operational level." Well, for God's sake, the minister is not responsible for his office, but the minister is responsible for the events in his portfolio that he is obliged to organise and control in an optimal manner. It is not the minister responsible for administration or bureaucracy but, among other things, the minister is also responsible for the use, i.e. spending of public, budgetary or credit funds. The minister is a person who must not say in my court that he does not know what is going on in his vault. That's what we heard about this case on several occasions. There are only three possible solutions for colleagues and colleagues. Or... Or the minister didn't know what was going on in his vault, and he had no right not to know what was going on in his vault. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Another possibility is that the minister knew what was going on in his portfolio, but he did nothing to correct the failure of corruption or other dishonest acts. It is either the third option that the minister himself has been instigating or perhaps inciting failures of corruption or other dishonest activities. In the first, second, in the third case, the minister is particularly showing his inability to perform his ministerial duties and to control his portfolio. It is that the inability to perform a resistor is an assumption that it must have its specific conjecture. And if I'm a minister who doesn't feel responsible for, let's call it a sin of indemnity, then actually someone else has to do it. We expected the government to do so, and it must be done by the Parliament. The second aspect, colleagues and colleagues, the second aspect we are actually talking about is the factal aspect of the government and the Croatian state, the way it works. The government also said in its report that the head of President Jadranka Kosor is counting on corruption with strong political will. We would like this strong political will to manifest itself realistically. Not only in law making, but in law enforcement. The moment you amnesty the Minister of Not knowing about what is happening in his portfolio, that moment you colleagues and colleagues stopped a strong political will to fight corruption. The moment the government did not recognize the minister's responsibility for not knowing what was going on in his portfolio. Let's say that ignorance, at that moment the government actually took responsibility for everything that's going on inside. And at that point, the government, along with an irresponsible minister or minister who is unable to perform his function, has actually proved himself incompetent. But in this incompetence, there is another greater danger for colleagues and colleagues. The moment we set political limits as long as the fight against corruption can go, as far as the fight against corruption goes, we admitted that the fight against corruption is only partial that there can still be untouchable and unmistakable. But this great danger has its own consensus that at that moment we have actually stopped, and perhaps blocked Croatia's path towards that goal that we have all actually declared, in fact, that we have consensually brought. That's the way to the European Union. The opposition said less of its own, the government said its own. Your colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition are on the move. It is up to you to decide whether responsibility and the fight against corruption will have its own political limit, its appropriate political level as far as it can reach or not. Or in the rule of law, the right will apply in all cases if possible in the same way. And it's actually in your hands, if we're going to have a negotiation blockade again, or if the negotiations are going to go further towards that goal that we have consensually reached. The opposition said its own, it's up to you to say yours, and I'm afraid this time, the fate of the state is in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45509	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45510	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. My colleagues today have presented a whole series of reasons why they hold and solidly argue why it is necessary to bear your share of responsibility. I'll tell you a few things as a representative of the Turopoly that I think you should leave your post. First of all, these are opportunities related to the construction of the Zagreb-Sisak road that you promised us on several occasions in Velika Gorica. You've given us three or four deadlines, promised us great speeds in construction. Here's to remind you that in 2006, you promised to reach Lekenik by October 2007, and it arrived from Kusanc to Bunševec. So it's a unique highway in the Republic of Croatia in the length of less than 9 km. By constantly entertaining the public of the Republic of Croatia, Velika Gorica prevents the construction of the highway and in fact every metre is built, built exclusively in the territory of the town of Velika Gorica, and not one metre in Sisak-Moslavina and in the area of Zagreb. Neither the country bought out in time nor the project documentation was in time, nor the deadlines were respected. This is what we are concerned about and what is one flat track which 47.5 km is long from Zagreb to Moscenica builds as if it were the hardest highway through the biggest gudura we can imagine. And now we've put ourselves in a position to put pressure on the international community or, specifically, the World Bank, all the contracts that the state has signed to build that highway are cancelled because the World Bank has estimated that they are not concluded in a transparent manner and wants to if it already engages its new ones to do so according to their rules. And we're nowhere. Another reason. I personally warned the Minister of two extremely important things at the Airport Trade Society Assembly last March until today. I'll say it first. I don't know if you know Zagreb Airport has been statisticalally viewed for two years in a group of airports where a difficult plane crash can happen at any time. 80% of all aircraft accidents occur in the summer landing corridor, and in our case they are two settlements where nearly 3,000 inhabitants live. If an accident occurs and he is unable to intervene within 3 minutes to start cooling the plane's hull a chance to survive on that plane is zero. Every year we record more than 100 incidents falling large pieces of ice on the roofs of houses in these settlements. So far, nothing has been done to avoid any disaster. And another thing. In the summer landing corridor there are more than 600 houses that the state has been threatening to tear down for decades, and it has absolutely no power to define its policy, where it will be, whether and how the new runway will be settled, and 600 houses do not have a building permit even though they were built after 1968. I warned the minister about the problem. He didn't react until today. We've been born there for the third generation of people in houses who don't have documentation, there live several hundred refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina who didn't come to the weekend or to the cold, but came from misery and trouble. No one fled their home because he had a good time, but because he was miserable and in trouble. And we forget those people. And a third thing. Now it's the fourth. Remember that the minister replaced the director of Bosko Matkovic Airport just because he refused to agree to the IGH concept and that it was agreed with Prime Minister Sanader. Within a month, it was removed not only without the consent of co-founders and co-owners of the Airport, but with their open opposition, which is the town of Velika Gorica and the city of Zagreb. So what happened now? It was brought by the Director of Catering to be the interim director of the Airport in order to change the statutes of the company so that a man who did not meet the criteria for the Director could not be brought in. These are very important reasons why we in Turopolje, because there is a large number of my fellow citizens who think Minister Kalmeta is responsible and must go. And this thesis that the minister is not responsible simply is not correct either according to our regulations, but not according to practice. Minister Calmeta is the president of a company assembly located in his portfolio. Well, for example, the Zagreb Airport has seen that it is able to change the man immediately, in which case, the man who brought the company into a positive business after 5 years and put into reserve 30 million euros for the construction of a new terminal. And how long it took for us to face large circuses and road construction affairs and other activities, that nothing happened to anyone until the moment the USCOK and the State's Attorney's office entered the story and gave the signal it was over. That's when they started to change. Mr. Minister, the public is asking for responsibility. Parliament is the only possible place where it can be measured on the political responsibility of the government and ministers. Let's not let that be talked about on the street, outside the institutions. It is only Parliament who can measure and make a decision, no one else. But when my colleague Lovrin says that the time has not come for your political responsibility, forgive me, it sounds a little funny to me, because colleague Lovrin is one of those who has left her post for political responsibility and is not the first. And you probably won't be the last either. But it is simply that the preservation of democratic standards must be one of the criteria in Parliament. I know why your colleague Lovrin is defending you, why your colleagues from Zadar are defending you. Well done, Minister Calmet, you've been a very good minister to your homeland. Well done! That minister from my neighborhood even charged us with state land for a cemetery of nine and a half million kuna, and it's an honor for you. You've restored the dignity of the war with the wrong and the damaged Zadar. But that's where your public engagement stopped, and in that sense I think the time has come to say thank you, I was wrong. I'm in no position to run my portfolio the right way, and I'm a weight on the government's neck. I'm the one who disturbs Mrs. Kosor in implementing anti-corruption policy. I am the one who interferes on the way to European integration. Be aware of that, show your responsibility, and we'll give you a round of applause from Minister Calmeta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45511	Prior to the closing statement on behalf of Mr Zeljko Jovanovic, a representative of the government. On behalf of the government, another Deputy Prime Minister. Don't! Darko Milinovic, Minister Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45512	Thank you, Mr. President. Here we are at the end of a day debate that has produced a series of data. ... I can't say it louder, 'cause they don't like it loud. [[- You can't hear me!]] A series of data presented by Minister Calmet and we've actually come up with a few uncontestable facts. I don't know why you can't hear it. You can hear it. I can't yell, then they get angry. You can't hear it. What's up, they say you can't hear. One, can you hear me now? What about technique? Tech, come on. It's okay now. So, a few uncontested, here it is heard, a few uncontested facts that Minister Kalmeta presented here today, and here you were last involved in an individual debate, of course the Ministry of Calmete could not build a road in Velika Gorica before because the mayor refused to change the spatial plan together with you and thus boycotted or disabling the issue of a building permit. I want to say one more uncontested fact. So power cannot be changed based on polls as some wish, but no change in power has occurred in the elections. And once again, I would like to congratulate all those who have in any way participated in the discovery, the resolution of corruption affairs in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, congratulations to our coalition partners. Another very clear attitude and messages to the Croatian public. Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor and this government have a zero degree of tolerance for corruption and no one can change that. We can compete, but this government does not accept that anyone else be a frontman in this fight to this government and to the ministers and coalition partners in this government. Once again, I want to say that we are not politicizing this topic, and I will repeat what I said in the opening debate. Every policy on this subject is beating the edge of the fight against corruption. Also, the uncompromising facts are also presented today and we can all, I call on the Croatian public who is interested in addressing the ministry and verify that the price of the road is not the highway or road that you said we were on from 33 European Union countries to 31 almost the last. Here are 31 places, that the railways were invested much more than during the previous governments, that the loss was much lower, that the postal services market was arranged and that it was ready for liberalisation and will thus welcome Croatia's entry into the European Union. We also had a few inconsistencies, and I call on those who have that information to say Mr. Cacic paid 48 million kuna in 2003 only for a month to cut the time limit for the construction of individual sections of the road. It's also unrelenting that this government has built 545 kilometers if I don't remember the roads. So 200 or so, and the former is 200 kilometers, so twice as much. It is also undeniable, it seems to me that we have broken and reached an anti-corruption atmosphere in the Republic of Croatia, and I think we have come to a stage where we can once again invite all, political entities, and governmental, and NGOs, all citizens to the consensus that we are fighting together against what is not only the problem of the Republic of Croatia, but many countries of Europe and the world. We have also found inconclusive facts today, that the river basin from 73 million jumped to 400 million, an incredible 550% higher. It's an inconsistencies fact. We have data and we call on all relevant institutions of this country to request these data, such as the works of the Circular Crossroad, parks in 2007, I'm talking about the River with 10 million and 700 increase by 5.1 million kuna, 50%. They're all inconsistencies. But once again, I call for a consensus to fight corruption. Congratulations, Minister Kalmeti, that he once again had the strength and opportunities in this House to give all the facts and all these facts are available to the Croatian public and all these facts speak of the senselessness of the political indictment of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45513	Thank you. And final review, on behalf of SDP representative club promoter, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45514	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. One of the most common paroles heard in this House was a society of knowledge. We see how much knowledge we are today, that ignorance reigns, and today the most common parole was zero tolerance against corruption. I hope it doesn't end up as a knowledge society for Minister Primorca. In the opening explanation of our proposals to raise the issue of trust to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, I asked everyone if the latest affairs in state-owned companies in which investigations take place were sufficiently strong evidence that the fight against corruption finally took place in Croatia in the right direction. Are these affairs proof of the readiness of Jadranka Kosor and her strength and authority that due to Croatia's citizens' interest finally clears up with corruption to the end. And right away, I said our answer was negative. We have received confirmation through this debate, and although the decision on our proposal to raise the issue of trust is yet to follow, it is clear that the ruling coalition in Croatia does not understand what the concept of political responsibility is. But I would have to ask Mr. Calmet, but also all of you here how you now estimate that your main coalition partners are not in the assembly. Is this another escape from irresponsibility and responsibility, whether it is another evidence of shame to support Minister Kalmeta and remain a minister in this government, which speaks on paper about zero tolerance for corruption. I don't see HSS, I don't see HSLS, I don't see SDSS. It's very indicative and very much talking about the future of this government. The fight against corruption rests on the integrity, transparency and accountability, so if, as Prime Minister Kosor really has to tell us, with my apology, in a sad indication of our proposal, it says that ministers cannot be politically responsible for their work, we get crown proof that there is nothing from fighting corruption. Following this observation signed by Prime Minister Kosor, who reminds you of the National Coordinator of the Government Anti-Corruption Commission, the fight against corruption remains on paper and words, and the credibility of Prime Minister Kosor and the entire government remains highly questionable. I hope the citizens recognize the absurdity that Prime Minister Kosor does not respect Article 114. A constitution that speaks of the personal responsibility of every minister for the field of his work. I wonder if Lawyer Kosor knows the Law on Commercial Society, in which responsibility, powers and obligations of the Assembly, the Supervisory Board and the Administration are clearly elaborated. It is amazing that by the government's decision, which proposed the resolution of the HAC administration, the Assembly represented by Minister Kalmeta resolved the administration because of the negative climate created by the media, while not using the legal opportunity to use the legal possibility for the state-owned company and the gentlemen to be replaced. No, I don't. Neither the government nor the minister did so, so HAC gentlemen were given the opportunity to fill their pockets and their sponsor's pockets because of the lack of harm to their work, the possibility that after they damaged the budget for billions of kuna, they would still have the opportunity to be on vacation, and to take more severance in millions of kunas. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that nothing else was responsible for Minister Calmeta, which we were talking about today, only this information is proof that he was politically responsible for what was happening in connection with the HAC and the damage to the state budget. I said several times that Croatia needs more justice, more responsibility, more transparency in order to fight corruption, and protect the quality of life of all Croatian citizens regardless of which party they are in. Croatia needs a new generation of politicians who will see the concepts of responsibility and transparency towards the citizens of Croatia, not party members, parties or communities as their motto. I didn't mean to talk about the Word, because I speak on behalf of the promoter, but here I am being challenged by my colleagues on this side, because Mr. Minister is also in his defence for what the SDP accuses him of, and he's not accusing him of guilt but political responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, as much as it bothers colleagues and colleagues in the HDZ of Rijeka is the most transparent city. Not from the SDP poll, but from the GONG survey and... I said, I promised, I'm responsible, I'm responsible, I'm going to give it to Minister Calmeti. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the price list, the cost of the Candride pool complex. Lies are about 70 million, lies are about 400 million kuna. The truth here is 285 million kuna cost the pool. Well, gentlemen, we've requested government approval of 300 million kuna. So why? Because that's what the complex was supposed to cost. And it's not just a pool. There's a lot of stuff out there. The lady who called me, my colleague Buterin, knows best because the area where she lives is solved and the water is ready with money for that pool. Here I will let Minister Kalmeti see how it is done transparently and responsibly in the interest of the citizens of Croatia, in this case the citizens of Rijeka. The most you respect are polls, which are election polls. Well, dear gentlemen, '93, '97. In 2001, 2005 and 2009 SDP and Mayors Slavko Linić and Vojko Obersnel won in Rijeka. Is this good enough proof that in the SDP River politicians are responsible and transparent? Dear colleagues and colleagues are not all politicians alike...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45515	Peace, please. Peace, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45516	Not all politicians are the same fortunate Croatian citizens, some are in HDZ, others are in opposition. The opposition has proved today what it means to be responsible, how responsible politicians behave, and your coalition partners have fled because they are not able to act responsibly towards their coalition partner. I invite you, have your last chance, act as responsible representatives and do not vote your Minister Calmeta's vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45517	Everything's gonna be in line with that movie "Straightly-controlled Trains." I'm closing the debate. We are now going to vote on a proposal to raise the issue of trust of the Minister of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure to Bozidar Kalmeti. He is proposing 32 MPs, members of the SDP club. The debate is closed. I would like to stress that Article 115(5) is consistent with Article 115(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the adoption of this decision requires a majority of all MPs, 77 votes. I am voting on the motion for a decision to show no confidence to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Bozidar Kalmeta, and in order to avoid misunderstanding, I would like to emphasise the following. Those who vote in favour vote in favour of distrusting Minister Kalmeti, while voting against the draft of this decision shows confidence in the minister. Please engage. So those who vote for the minister vote against. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. What's the score? In order to show no confidence to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Bozidar Kalmeti was voted by 38 MPs... Wait a minute, what is it? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Do any of the agents have the key to Mr. Representative Heffer? It can't be. Someone's gotta have it. 39 is for distrust, 38, one is abstention. So it's not. I find that the proposal has not received the necessary majority. Just a little peace, please. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45519	Mr. Vice President. It's obvious the Businessman was injured. Mr. Heffer was registered to vote, and we all see he's gone. We have to vote again. The man doesn't have a record you've registered to be restrained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-11-0.u45520	Okay. We're going to vote again and we're going to figure out what's going on with that famous key to Heffer. Please, gentlemen. Let's vote again, the rules you know. The result? Now he's got 33 for two abstentions and 66 against. So I'm determining that the proposal didn't get the necessary majority. ... and that Minister Kalmeta still has the trust of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Congratulations to everyone Christmas and New Year's Eve, pleasant holidays and have a great time together. Good luck to all presidential candidates so everyone can pass. I'm closing the session.
