ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37299	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to Mrs Jadranka Kosor, vice-president and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am opening the 13th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament at the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 197(5) and Article 200. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you to pay our respects to the tragically deceased in the severe railway accident in Kaštel. - Moment of silence – Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, draft agenda, as well as material for the session, are published on the Croatian Parliament's website during Friday. They were delivered to the boxes during Saturday morning. Any objections to the proposed agenda? Here you go. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37300	Your Honor, Mr. President. As you have now explained to the representatives and to the general public why an extraordinary session was called and called for the provisions of Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I ask that point 12, Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, be left out of the agenda of this extraordinary session because there is no, its content has nothing to do with all the other points why the Prime Minister and Government have explained and asked you to call this extraordinary session. By the way, I'm just saying, so if there's even a need to talk about it right now, it's a land that this bill wants to legalize in a way that has become owners of those who haven't paid in times of crisis in 19 years, and now the state should give it to them. So if that's the part, that's the only thing that makes sense. So, it's an anti-constitutional law, a law contrary to the concession law, a Law of Property, and it can only be figured out why it's now on the agenda, because Mrs Kosor was in Brussels, because we already know that from Brussels they come from some kind of structure, which is why these hotel owners who have been illegally holding that land for 19, 18, 19 years and have damaged the state budget by millions and millions of kunas. Now we should give it to them right now. That's too much. So we ask that this item of the agenda be removed from today's extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37301	Thank you. That is what we will decide when we come to the vote on the agenda item, noting that there are objections to, otherwise it is proposed in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37302	No matter. No matter. And how did they explain that to you? They were obliged to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37303	Any other objections? There isn't. Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37304	Unlike Mrs. Ingrid, I think this point 12 should remain on the agenda. Let them already pay once what this state has given them for 19 years, to use hundreds and hundreds of acres of so-called. tourism land, and they don't take any bills for it, until, say, a small caterer has to pay one square for one chair and one table in front of his catering facility, so I don't pick up any more. However, what I personally ask is that all these other points, points 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, be left out of the agenda because it really turns into one hack to past work, or to those who have a job. So, I propose to delete this particular salary, pension tax, a bill on wages in local administration and self-government, it's scandalous, it shouldn't go away if we want to preserve the autonomy of these institutions. To delete the Law on Value Added Tax, to delete the Law on Amendments to the Law on Special Tax, well, let's keep it that way. That this proposal for a law on employment mediation and rights during unemployment, etc., because certain social rights and the burden of getting the country out of the problem that this government has put us in, is actually being downloaded to 4 and a half million citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37305	Thank you. We have an objection to points 3 to 11. In the process of voting the agenda, we will note that there is opposition to inclusion in the agenda. And now, on the basis of Article 205 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. These are the acts set out in the draft agenda referred to in points 3 and 5 to 11. These are the Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Payments, Pensions and Other Receipts, with a Final Proposal for Law, Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 414, point 3 of the draft agenda. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 416, point 5. Proposal for a law amending the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 417, point 6. Proposal for a law on support for job conservation, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 418, point 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 419, point 8. Proposal for a law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 420, point 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions, with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 421, point 10. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on compulsory health insurance, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 422, point 11. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on those laws. Reference to the entry on the agenda from point 3 to 11 of Agent Damir Cain. Then leave out of this agenda point 12 of MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, on behalf of the SDP club. The Prime Minister will declare these remarks. Here you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37306	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The government does not accept this proposal, which, on behalf of the SDP club, was issued by MP Antičević-Marinović because it is one of those laws that we hold anti-recessional and that is why we sent it in this package, but also these proposals made by MP Kajin because all of these laws that we have submitted in addition to budget rebalancing are going to the state finances to stand down and that we have the real basis for making the 2010 budget. So, the government stays on its proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37307	Thank you very much. Let's plug in first and check the quorum, please. We have a quorum, 114 present representatives and representatives. We move to a statement on certain points of the agenda that are proposed by an emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives other than Mr Kajin have any objection to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, P.Z. No. 414, item 3, so Mr. Cain is against being even placed in the agenda? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Let us include and vote on the urgency of the procedure for point 3, i.e. P.Z. No. 414. The result? The urgency was accepted by most votes, 75 votes for, 10 abstentions, 26 against. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the law on value added tax, P.Z. No. 416, point 5? Mr. Cain's asking me not to get into the agenda. There isn't. We're going to the vote. Let's get involved and vote on the urgency of this one. The result? The proposal to be classified as an emergency procedure was accepted by 75 votes to, 7 abstentions, 35 against. Third, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, P.Z. No. 417, paragraph 6? Mr. Cain against getting involved in the agenda? Of course, the government has rejected all these proposals. There isn't. Let's go vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 96 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 12 against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Employment Support Act, P.Z. No. 418, paragraph 7? Mr. Cain is against inclusion in the agenda. There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 93 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 8 against. Fifth, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Employment and Rights Act during unemployment, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 419, paragraph 8? Mr. Cain is against inclusion. There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 75 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 22 against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks? It's an emergency number, P.Z. Number 420, point 9. Mr. Cain versus the enrollment. There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was included in most of the votes, with 85 votes for, 10 abstentions and 9 against, by emergency procedure. Seven. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Contributions, P.Z. Number 421, point 10. So an emergency procedure, Mr. Caine against inclusion. There isn't. Let's vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The emergency procedure was accepted by most votes, 78 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 21 against. Eight. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance, P.Z. Number 422, point 11. Mr. Cain against involvement. There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 80 votes for, 16 abstentions and 10 against. Any of the representatives object to the remaining points of the agenda, except Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, on behalf of the SDP club? There isn't. I'm putting this proposal to keep this item 12 or not on the agenda. Please, let's get involved and vote. It was voted on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club not to include this 12th item in the agenda. Now we're voting whether or not it's going to fit, and please let's get involved and vote. If anyone votes for it then it'll be to get into the agenda. The government remained at its position that this item of the agenda remains on the agenda. So we vote on it, if there are more votes plus, then it stays on the agenda. Those against entering the agenda will then vote against entering the agenda. Here you go. The result? The proposal to stay on the agenda on the government's proposal is 79 votes, 3 abstentions, and 38 against. So item 12 of the agenda remained on the agenda. And since there were no objections to point 4. Proposal for a Payments Act in local and regional (regional) self-government remains that point, because... There were no objections, so I declare that the agenda has been adopted as we have read here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I ask you not to read the whole agenda, and in accordance with our tradition that after the adoption of the agenda it is only a waste of time, and we have seen that the agenda is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we move to the 1st item of the agenda – 1. Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 Proposal for amending and supplementing the financial plans - Croatian Waters for 2009 - Croatian Roads for 2009 The proposal for amendments to the State budget and financial plans of extra budget users for 2009 (consolidated) is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 174 and 175. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by committees, but we didn't get a report from all those committees. Which we got for local and regional. We have received the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, which has not reached the benches, so I ask that the report of the Committee on Finance be shared as soon as possible, because it is the parent committee for this agenda point. I ask the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to further explain the draft budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37309	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, let me, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, once again, even if the Government has done so, express my deep sympathy to the families of those killed in the car accident at Kaštel, a serious car accident, and to announce on behalf of the Government that I believe the investigation will be really quick and effective, that today or tomorrow we will have all the information so that we can withdraw additional moves related to the responsibility of those who have contributed unfortunately to this tragedy. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Here's a new budget rebalance for 2009. Let me say a few words as a frame of what we propose. In fact, it is certain that we will all agree that today we are in a difficult economic crisis, which is extremely large, which has affected many. We could actually say all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but that it should be seen in the context of the global economic crisis. In fact, even the world's largest economies are unfortunately falling and stagnation. Countries considered to be the most economically strong have shown great weaknesses in economic policy in the banking system in the way in which investments have been invested over the past ten years. This has led to a huge international crisis, it could be said, so above all, a crisis of trust in which people do not want to invest anymore, they do not want to spend. Credit crises in which banks do not want to borrow business activities, income crises, in which governments fail to raise enough funds to maintain the same level of public spending. Of course Croatia is not an exception, of course Croatia is not an island. It is clear that we are not isolated from events in other countries, because global recessions are not spared. I, of course, will not waste your time now to make instructions about how it is in other countries, in particular the European Union, but also in the world. Because I know and I believe you're well informed about all this. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in a complex situation, but I will say immediately that the situation is certainly not critical, that the Croatian Government is that everything it has to do and that the powers of the Croatian Government are under control and that we believe and we are confident that this rebalancing will, above all, create sound assumptions for the development of the 2010 budget. And that we're going to make real intentions and real activities, if you will, at least we don't like that word, but I'm going to use it at this point, see and feel the reforms in the budget that we're going to make for 2010. So, we're going on at that job right now. When I say to me, I mean, of course, coalition partners in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and already here for this week, I have announced a series of meetings where we will actually start building the foundations for the 2010 budget. In this budget we will also include all those valid remarks and proposals that I believe will be made in this debate. And I invite you to propose, I invite you to the truth to a constructive debate. And believe me, you will see that those proposals that are realistic, which are feasible and which can help the 2010 budget to be a guarantee for Croatia's future in truth we will do so. So let's put them in that budget. We must all be aware of the difficulty facing Croatia. And we need to understand that the new economic reality we need to find ways to respond. The difficult decisions we have made and the decisions you will discuss today are inevitable in our judgment. We are sure that we will recover, that we will preserve jobs and maintain control of public finances so that we can count on growth as soon as financial opportunities are stabilised. Namely, if we don't do anything, and at this point surely the damage can be great. Of course I can talk to a lot of people around Croatia these days. I know of everything, so, of course, in my family, I know of all the fears, all the doubts, all the thoughts that go for it, what should be done. Of course, there have been many conversations in the Croatian public these days. There's been a lot of attacks on the government, of course, but of course we're here to handle everything. Therefore, nothing has been taken for harm. Because I think everyone who talks, everyone who proposes, everyone who makes any suggestions on the public political scene, doesn't do it in a bad way. So we all have only one Croatia and we have to fight, we have to do everything to keep it stable in every sense. In fact, many people are talking about fear for the future these days. All mostly have some loans, for apartment, car, furniture, vacation, clothes, for schooling children etc. Therefore, I can say on behalf of the government that I am headed, that there is no reason for fear. That we will do everything to make it really better tomorrow, more stable and that all the efforts we make these days, which we will do this summer. And here I am, and I announced that there will be no rest. Maybe for a few days, they go after it to really make deep, heavy, sometimes painful cuts. But those who will be the foundation for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, here comes the question from the opposition order, what does that mean? So let me say what that means. By the time the economic crisis occurred, we systematically implemented a policy of fiscal consolidation and a reduction of the fiscal deficit. When revenues were realized and better than expected, we kept the expenditure under control, thus reducing the fiscal deficit and the need for borrowing. Under the current conditions of the economic crisis, the responsibility of fiscal policy has been to take all possible measures to preserve the stability of public finances and ensure the rapid recovery of the economy while preserving social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know and as you can see, in addition to the budget rebalancing, we have tabled a series of new or legislations, or regulations that regulate some issues in Croatia differently. I must say, by looking for a way of solutions, we spoke tirelessly first of all with our social partners. A series of meetings was held. I may regret that after these meetings where we simply sought the best solutions, solutions that all social partners or at least most will agree on, then these proposals may never have been wrongly interpreted in the Croatian public. Because of course each of the participants had the right to tell the public, to the press what was discussed at these meetings, they talked. But no conclusion was final until Friday's cabinet session. The government's session was announced the day before. So, I reject any speculation about it and we could hear it and see that it was a questionable cabinet session, its maintenance. No, she was announced the day before, she was held when we of course all that could have been agreed first of all in the coalition and then certainly with the social partners. I'm not giving up on that and that kind of work whether you like it or not. So, talk, talk and talk, listen and listen, listen, hear your partners and then decide what's best. That's how it was in the conversation with both trade unions and employers. I must say that some of the solutions that have really come before you from the union centres and that is the real truth for which the Government finally decided that most of the unions, meaning the state and public services of the union centres, have been defined for the solutions that are ahead of you but also that we have received a certain one, so not quite certainly without the rest but also the support of the Croatian Employers' Association. What do we suggest? But before that, let me say something else about the very structure of the state budget on the trail of all those who say they have ideas where even more could have been cut off without touching pensions or salaries or social donations. So, the structure of our budget is that about 80% of the budget is exactly what I'm talking about, so pensions, salaries, but also child benefits, maternity benefits, social benefits and so on. So that's what we're dealing with. Of course, we, you know well we have additionally, in the first and second rebalancing, reduced everything that has been given, so from this famous and famous representation that certainly is not and cannot be a measure of all things to buying cars, using cards, so a different manner of behavior that drives us to the situation we are in but that I personally think must be generally accepted in the future. So, regardless of the time that is coming and that will certainly be better someday, regardless of what is certainly going to be higher one day, I think that this way of conduct is only acceptable to what is called state administration and state budget users. So, as you can see, we also proposed a special tax relating to pensions and salaries. It is a tax that will last for a short time, so by the end of this year and by the end of next year, so on 31 December 2010. The tax will not be touched by pensioners up to three thousand kunas of pension, nor by employees who have paid up to three thousand kunas. That way, ladies and gentlemen, we protected nearly 900 thousand pensioners and about 600 thousand employees. Of course, or rather I'll say here's the information. 891 thousand 581 pensioners means who has a pension of up to 3 thousand kuna won't pay a dime. Then we introduced a rate of three thousand kunas to six thousand out of two percent. This percentage will include 228 thousand 133 pensioners. And we have a rate above $6,000 for salaries and pensions. In particular, 40 thousand 167 pensioners will include pensioners. Let me say one more fact, of course, in the light of all the decisions of the previous governments, and I think I have the right to say something about it. In this rebalancing which is really hard and painful, we haven't touched any single lip supplement for children and maternity benefits. So it's about 4 billion kunas that remain intact in the state budget. Why did we decide to do that? Because the allowance for children receives about 400 thousand children, because it is about 255,000 users, because we think that in this way we hold first of all one of the pillars of the government's work, which is a population policy which is certainly a strategic and first-rate national issue, because in this way we empower families with children and certainly maternity benefits that remain delimated for the first six months, means full pay for mothers but also everything else that belongs to women, mothers and families under a special regulation that came into effect at the beginning of this year. And let's think of some times past when it wasn't like that, so when all these receipts weren't intact, but we thought we could find other ways to do it once again and leave the 4 billion absolutely intact. As for investments that have been talked about a lot in public, of course especially in political life I will say that all investments related to road construction we are prolonging, meaning we are reducing the dynamics from 4 to 6 years and of course we are looking for new ways primarily of lending or financing. As far as the Pelje Bridge is concerned, which has become one general place for all those who have something to say about the state budget to always speak as a central place, saying that if the Peljek Bridge were removed from the budget and he was not in the budget and I believe everyone here you know then all the problems about state finances would be solved. So, as far as the Peles bridge is concerned, 200 million kuna is in place to this day. We've decided to cut that investment by 100 million kuna, leave what has to be done and can be done at this point. We're prolonging construction like I said by 2015, we're not giving up, we're prolonging. And for these 100 million kunas that we have further reduced in that position will be built, improved county or local roads because we believe that it is our duty as a government to take care of around 50,000 construction workers who certainly cannot and should not be left without a job. You will also see that we have made some decisions that are related to support the economy, so on the so-called We found a space to support the economy, i.e. the economy, but we also introduce on the trail and your discussions a special additional luxury tax, on mobile phone. Here's when I mention cell phone, let me tell you some interesting information that I've collected about this. For example, the number of text messages in last year reached 3.8, so almost 4 billion messages, and compared to 2006 it increased by 50%. The number of minutes spent in mobile phone in 2008 was 7.5 billion and increased by 40% compared to 2006. The number of users of mobile communications networks in 2008 was 5.9 million, and in 2008 and in 2007 the average increase was 16%. Here are some figures that I think I can at least explain why the government decided to take these measures. Ladies and gentlemen, what we will continue to do and what you can expect during the summer, so until next year's budget is a new revision of all agencies, offices and everything that has been established, of course with the note that everything we had to set up in line with the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union will have to be left behind, and there is no doubt there. So we said in the coalition nothing is untouchable, everything is on the table, so we'll talk absolutely about everything, from support to further. Each public undertaking, i.e. a majority state-owned undertaking, must develop an action plan to reduce indifference. And I have to mention since we've been making some decisions about textbooks over the past few days, 300 thousand textbooks that have been collected will be sent to counties that have the lowest income per capita. I mean, above all, the counties that were killed in the war and that the purchase program was completed, i.e. providing textbooks for children who needed it, so the two ministries, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, science, education and sports are working on it, but so is the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. So there are about 42,000 and 500 students throughout Croatia, and of course we are also looking for ways to subsidise transport for these students. It is of course about students whose families will meet the requirements regarding the review. Ladies and gentlemen, here may be the end of the data that you need to know in view of the structure of the budget this year for pensions is needed, i.e. the planned revenues are 34 billion 710 million 65 kuna and 897 June. The revenue from the contribution is slightly higher than 20 billion, and revenue from the budget is greater than 14 and a half billion. And here we still have about 8 million and 514 kunas of other income included. Please consider this when you discuss all the proposed documents and allow at the very end to remind me further that we have reduced salaries to officials 10 and 5%, that we have reduced preferential pensions, that we have made decisions to ban the purchase of cars, ban the use of cards for everyone except ministers and state secretary, and for them only for official travel in Croatia and abroad. And I also announce the creation, that is, the debate on the Law of Salary in the local administration. I just have to mention that one fact, when we announced it, and constantly in the talks with the local pay unions, is that at the local level, they stand out as a stumbling block when it comes to paying in state and public services and at the local level. We have big objections here. When we set out to make this law that should regulate it together, therefore, and pay at the local administration, indeed one canonad of objections began. In that sense, nothing is simply to be touched. I only mention it on the way because you'll have that law now in your first reading. By the way, because a lot of those who suggest what the government should do speaks for example about the government being needed and here it was a direct message for me to fire 70,000 employees in public and state services, when at the moment it would save public finances, but there are also suggestions that we should eliminate these huge municipalities, cities and counties immediately. So I'm announcing, and I've announced that we're going to go into the analysis of all this. It means if we really have too many municipalities, cities, counties. I call upon all of you who want to engage in any way in this group that will first analyse whether we have really too many, so if we have what we should do and where we should end it. And I guess there won't be any political barriers in the sense that you can, as you've done so far in these measures that we've proposed, you can cut everything, you can reduce everything, you can do reforms, but all the way to my door. When you get to my door, don't touch it, it's protected and we'll fight it with all the means. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I once again call for an agreement on this debate. We did what we could at this point, certain that this rebalance also leads to the stabilisation of finances and that it leads us to a good, stable, stable budgeting for 2010. On the other aspects of the rebalancing, I suggest that you be told something by the Minister of Finance. And here I am immediately announcing that after noon I will have to go to a meeting, so please excuse me, to accept an apology, because for today I have called a meeting with representatives of public companies to discuss price-freeness, given that the government has also proposed a 1-percent VAT raise, and I have such a meeting tomorrow, of course with my colleagues, with all those in Croatia who can say something about food prices and other important products and I believe that we will reach an agreement and there is no reason to raise VAT prices by 1% for food and other life-important products. At the very end, when I mentioned the VAT, I'm going to say that it's right out of the ranks that you're sitting here, from some parties, coming up with a proposal to increase the VAT to 24, to 25%, but there were also those who... there were those, Mr. Cain, and there were those... And there were those who are constantly calling for the IMF to arrive. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, I ask you to consider all these facts. I think that we are able, smart, to have enough and strength and wisdom and knowledge, but first and foremost to solve our problems and our questions alone in Croatia without anyone's help, because we can and of course what's most important, because we know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37310	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue, I would like to inform you that so far it has been reported on this agenda item of 7 clubs and 52 MPs plus one club for five minutes, so far I am saying, which is approximately 11 hours of debate, no replication, reply to replicas, corrections of incorrect allegations and participation of the government's representatives in the debate. According to my assessment, free would be from 14 to 16 hours of discussion cumulatively, and perhaps even a little optimistic in this regard. Now we have nine corrections of incorrect allegations, so let's start in order. Mr. Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37311	Thank you. It is incorrect that the Prime Minister's statement that the situation is not critical, that there is no reason for fear and that this is the social budget. Mrs. Kosor, this isn't a social, it's a dalton budget. The red light has turned on, everyone sees red, only you see green and in your famous fifth speed continue to drive towards the break-in, with unfortunately a complete Croatian society in the composition. You here boast that a million and a half fellow citizens who retire, which those who work will not be taxed because they receive 3,000 kunas of wages, up to 3,000 kunas. It's in itself already a disaster, it's already in itself critical, and what you're hoping to save your text messages is just talking about what an unexplainable situation you've come into and what straws you're getting at.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37312	Thank you. Mr. Representative, I would just like to warn you at the beginning of this debate that you are not using the institute to correct incorrect allegations to convey your opinions that fall within the line, not to correct incorrect allegations, because you have not corrected anything but to paralyze it. Let's move on. I know this, of course, and I'm aware that I'm talking in vain, but it's my duty to warn, say it, and occasionally I'm going to take this notice in this regard and return it. Don't mind me. When you have the right to make corrections about anything, then we too can warn from the President's desk that these are not corrections but are actually replicas. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras' turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37313	Thank you very much. Now you'll see that it's not in vain what you said, because I'm going to stick to two allegations exactly. One allegation is, Mrs. Kosor said we know how to keep expenses under control which is absolutely incorrect because this government has been acting as a drunk billionaire for the last five and six years, and she can't keep spending under control, which is proof that the budget on the spending side has increased from 90 to over 120 billion kuna, or 121 billion kuna. If he didn't know how to keep the expenses under control, the fact is that since the last rebalancing, they've announced huge savings, and they've managed to save everything over 100 million kuna. And the only solution they've offered is then that Croatian citizens' hack to make those out of their incomes, billions and 400 million kunas give the government to continue to be irresponsible. And another incorrect assumption is that when Mrs Kosor says she has protected some Croatian citizens with this budget, that some will not pay taxes which is absolutely incorrect.../The speaker has been excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37314	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37315	Because VAT will be paid by all Croatian citizens, not only by some but by all Croatian citizens... /The speaker excluded./... and those who have no income and this authority has not protected anyone but themselves and their coalition partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37316	Thank you. Except by correcting your opinion, you're taking a little longer and more time than it belongs to you. So that's why I'm warning you when it starts to blink here that we need to stop the debate. That goes for everyone, of course. It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37317	Well, I would have corrected the inaccuracies of the Prime Minister if the expenses had been kept under control. So, Mrs. Kosor, in the term of the HDZ Government, you increased the intellectual and personal service item ten times, from 126 million kuna in 2001 to a billion 300 million kuna in 2009. You've tripled your promotional and information services. Only last year, so in 2008, you increased these two items by 30%. If it hadn't been for such an unnecessarily increasing of these unnecessary items today, you wouldn't have had a reason to introduce a hack.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37318	Thank you. The hack is singing in "Death Smail-age Cengic". ... One of the songs. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] And there was Duke Bauk [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] And now it's Mr. Arsen Bauk's turn. [[/Intruder: That's right!]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37319	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I will correct the assumption that it is completely incorrect, which is that the Croatian government is keeping things under control. Last week we could see... Last week we could see him keeping them under control. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] So, on Sunday, 6% of state officials and public servants were down, on Monday, 8% or crisis tax, on Tuesday 5% and VAT increase, on Wednesday, 3%, and on Friday, 2+4. That shows, colleagues and colleagues, that the government has completely lost the compass. However, passing by the government building today I found a compass. He is turning quite this interestingly, however, the only direction he shows is the direction of the government's descent from early elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37320	Thank you. Please. Changes in proposals are the result of negotiations with partners. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37321	Thank you. It's incorrect that Madam President said that we didn't reduce the child's, and we're not reducing the child's allowance with this either. It's simply an incorrect Madam Prime Minister because you reduced the child's allowance by a rebalance less than 10 days ago. I let you forget about that at all, that's what I'm letting you do. Secondly, it has already been corrected here, but I am also correcting, as Mrs. Prime Minister said that the situation is not critical and it would really be just a court of law that the facts are irrefutable and that they are given bare hands to touch. Not that the situation isn't critical, but it can't be more critical. So, the government that led us with the one who ran away and the one who didn't know the clue, so it has led us here now, so it's charging, it's putting out accounts for the pensioners, the clerks, the ones who didn't make those bills. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37322	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37323	So again lies and muttering.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37324	I warned the MPs a few days ago, so let me do it again, that using words is a lie and a lie is not appropriate. You can say don't tell the truth. It's a little offensive, and it's a little offensive at least. I warn you of a moderate, so to speak a moderate dictionary, moderate to too moderately moderate a dictionary. Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37325	It is incorrect to say that the Prime Minister is not to be touched through this budget by salaries and pensions. In fact, at first glance, maybe that's the way it is, but our people say, "It's not neck, it's neck." The crisis tax law or, as already spoken to in the people, the pay is reduced by 2% or 4%, depending on the level of pay, equal to pensions, as pensions are further reduced by abolishing regular harmonisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37326	Mr Davorko Vidovic, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37327	Well, I'm also correcting what the predecessor said. It's not true that the pensions of up to $3,000 will not be touched. The absence of indexation, which is an integral part of retirement pension, will take an additional 700 million kuna. So if these 700 million kunas are taken by pensioners who belong to them by law, it's nothing more than a reduction. So, they're touching pensions below 3,000 kuna. It is also an incorrect finding by the Prime Minister not to touch on children's allowances. Children's allowances in 2009 are 100 thousand children less than in 2002. One hundred thousand children less, and it hasn't even increased the weight for children's extras in the last seven years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37328	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37329	Now, if I told Madam President that it's not a problem if VAT is going to be paid 23 or 24%, but that it's going to be between 10% on domestic food, on electricity, on gas, on water, and then we can cancel the zero rate we have for children's supplies, tourism, the newspaper to stay 10%. Well, that's the only way, ma'am, to encourage consumption, and that's the only way citizens in this country could be somewhat full of it. And I said something else about VAT, that a 30-day VAT payment deadline should be extended to 60 days and I said that the importers of those small ones who pay VAT within 8 days should at least be returned to the one two years ago and pay VAT within 30 days, if not 60 days. And another one of your incorrect allegations. It's a country bridge if it's not in the budget. But this bridge is also filled with... /The speaker is disabled....
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37330	Thank you. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37331	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister said, I quote, "this budget rebalance will create sound assumptions for the 2010 budget", absolutely incorrect. The truth is, you'll be burdening the people anyway, which is not a healthy assumption for 2010. This budget is not dynamic, it's not in development function as the only assumption of development that can get us out of the crisis. So the ministry was cutting its expenditures, but it was absolutely not enough, it should have been done long ago. That's what we've been warning you for two years, but it can't get us out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37332	Thank you. The Minister of Finance is still in the lead, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Mr. Minister, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37333	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So allow me, given these corrections as well, to make clear the facts that anyone can simply read on the portals of the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian National Bank. So we can talk politically and we will, but the number is something that's there, like it or not like it. But what is the primary objective of this budget rebalancing? The main goal is to finance all commitments by the end of the year at a time such as during the first 7 months and provide additional funding to the Croatian economy. The second thing is, we keep forgetting that in the era of historically low interest rates, we forced debt, we borrowed, we built, we boasted, today these loans come for payment. In 2009, it was together with interest rates over a billion and 100 million, I'm talking only about the central state. Next year it's far more. But today we're saying that what we're introducing is a hack. Was the reduction of 10% of salaries based on the IMF Directive in 2000 a hack or not? Was the non-payment of Christmases and gifts for children far more financially when the average salary was almost 40% lower than it is today? Was it a far greater and stronger financial blow for Croatia than it is today? But then they were higher goals, and today it's a hack. Is the story of introducing a kuna and 20 for building Croatian roads and highways, when you add VAT, kuna and a half, then it was a development tax. But don't forget that you took this kuna and 50 from the Croatian economy and from Croatian citizens. So, every time he carries his strategies, he always carries his taxes. I'm just repeating, don't forget what you were doing at times when the world's economy was in expansion. When the global financial market had as much money as you wanted and you could get it at very favourable interest rates. Today the situation is very different. Today, the situation is that you are financially marketing for what it is, the funds are very hard to get, and we are where we are. What have we done this year? When you add up all three budget rebalances, the original budget is reduced by 7 billion kuna. And even when you add those 2 billion kuna commitments that came from shipbuilding and some other things that have been redistributed, and that's not why the increase in expenditures, then we can talk about reducing the budget of 9 billion kuna. You know what, I was also an opposition representative here. And I remember a lot of things. They remember the reasons why we sold the Croatian Telecom control package for a very low price, to finance the deficit. You have a signed "stand by" arrangement with the IMF, Annex 2003. Where you say you'll finance the 2003 deficit with the INA's assets that are late. Those were the days Mrs. Pusic, you'll have a chance to say. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37334	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37335	Your reaction best shows me that I'm telling the truth. But you also say that the budget has increased by so much and so much. Let's see where those funds are spent. What were the pensions, the mass of funds for peace when you left power? You know, wait a minute. So why is my people nervous? I just want to give you an explanation of the expenditure side. You don't let me do that. Because look, you're already in these corrections saying things that I want to document to you so you don't bother, to correct the truth for God's sake. So let's see where the 30's went and some more billions. So the pensions were 22 billion 700, and today they're 29.3 when you add defenders then it's 34th, so that's an increase of almost 11 billion. The salaries were a mass of 22 billion, now 30 billion. That's already 20 billion increases. You want this one to see how much more EU funding is being raised to help the Croatian components? You want to talk about how much money we raised in one place when we cleaned up those 150 accounts of yours that kept billions of kuna? So that's it. And we've come to the expense side as it is. But no one's gonna say the government budget deficit last year was 0.8%. And if this global and European crisis hadn't occurred, we would have a balanced budget today. That's a fact. That's true. And you had a 6.3 deficit. But I'm saying that's all you could talk about. But look, despite the difficult situation, we have provided for agriculture and the economy with a budget of 596 new millions. We've secured them. No matter how much anyone liked it or didn't like it. About whether it's better to say you're gonna relax 70,000 people, then tell me where. 180 grand is employed in education and health care. 45 grand in the police force. You have seven and another thousand customs officers and tax collectors. Who are you going to fire 70 grand from from? Or an IMF call. So you did it in 2000 and what happened? You cut off all possible and impossible rights of Croatian citizens, then you threw them with incomes on their knees, and today they're talking about some kind of hack. So let me say it again. These are short-term measures aimed at successful completion of 2009. The year in which the first seven months had not been late, there were no late pensions, no late social benefits, nothing at all. The second goal is to make it through 2010 when we expect the recovery of the world economy, and parallel to that of the Croatian economy. That's why this is one of the taxes with a period practically up to 31. 12. God forbid it's a better situation to eliminate him as soon as possible. And in one part of the long-term measures also spoke the Croatian Prime Minister. So, measures that will give a long-term effect. Is the property tax today called the municipal fee and has one Croatia, can it be introduced in 15, 20 days? And can it have effects in 15, 20 days? He can't. But in the long run, it can have an effect. Just like some structural changes. Here we are today, unfortunately, witnessing a tragic situation regarding the Croatian railways of a tragedy. The question is, are we all going to support structural changes in the Croatian Railways together? Are we going to direct these 2 billion and 600 million from the state budget towards restructuring of Croatian railways? Or are we going to go through the system whenever it comes, what the Croatian Prime Minister said, whenever something comes at our door, it can't be touched? Then it's something that's forbidden. There's nothing you can do about it. So we've decided to step up and we've been doing it for six years, introducing order into this country. And by introducing the treasure, by introducing internal control of the audit, the results are quite clear. Unlike your 6.3 deficit, we ended up with 0.8 last year. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but some people might want to see Croatia on their knees but you won't be watching that movie.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37336	Now it's 11 corrections and before 9, that's 20. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh please go first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37337	I'd like to correct an incredible mathematical budget. In fact, Mr. Shuker says there was a time when wages were 140% less than today. I wonder exactly how much it was in the kuna and what year it was. And when he manages to calculate it, we propose immediately for a scientific prize in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37338	Here's a request to the minister to calculate. It's not a correction. It's a request to calculate. Second, Mr. Joseph Leko's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The minister of finance of the Republic of Croatia is completely unfoundedly accusing the Government of a coalition since 2000 that it has introduced a harrassor, that the world economy has been in expansion and forgets to say that the HDZ government has left the country with a negative growth rate although the world economy has been in expansion. So Racan's government, as the government responsible for the future, took care of finance and payments in the economy and thus assured this government and the previous government to live on these grounds. Secondly, the minister says he remembers many things. In other words, he remembers selectively. Many things he remembers and many things he does not remember what was clearly visible from his presentation because he forgot to say that in the term of that government, gross domestic product grew by 5% for the whole term and that this government already has a minus 5%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37340	Selective memory seems to be a general phenomenon. Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37341	Thank you very much. I will correct one or two of the Minister's allegations. One is the first that our reaction is sufficient for him to determine that he is telling the truth. Our reaction, Mr. Minister, is only because we see that at the moment that Croatia is about to collapse you are talking about things seven years ago and you are taking it as an argument because you do not have any solution that Croatia would have drawn from the crisis. The second thing you said was that in 2000 or 2000, the former coalition government threw Croatian citizens on their knees. But I will remind you that in just three years from 2000 to 2003, the average salary rose 30% and the average pension from 39% to 44% of the average salary, while in six years HDZ authorities average salary increased only 24% and the pension returned in the opposite direction from 44% to 39% of the average salary. And with this hack that you are today, or who you are going to introduce these pensions these days, and that salary is going to be even less.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37342	Thank you. The hack becomes a very one universal word here today, so we still use it too much. Vice-President Željka Antunović's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37343	I've got two corrections. It is an incorrect allegation that the budget would have been balanced, the Croatian budget had it not been for the global crisis. It is true that the budget deficit was created as a result of the wrong cost structure over a long period of time. Right now, only things started to come up. Furthermore, it is incorrect that there is a dilemma whether or not Croatian railways should be restructured. There is no doubt about it, of course, but not in your way, because you have been investing billions in restructuring for the past six years and every year Croatian railways are in increasingly poor shape and are increasingly inefficient and the result is these tragedies that unfortunately happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37344	Thank you. Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37345	It is simply not an exact quote from Mr. Minister when he said that, I quote, the basic objective of this rebalancing is to finance the commitments by the end of the year. Since we have heard that statement in this House for the third time today, it was also the basic goal of financing the commitments by the end of the year for the first time in rebalancing. In the second rebalancing, the sentence was also said that the rebalancing of commitments by the end of the year paid for science and education so that the basic objective of this rebalancing cannot be the same as to be able to finance the commitments by the end of the year but will be here as we know to introduce a hack to the weakest and most impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37346	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37347	Thank you. In this historic reminiscing of Minister Shuker, it is incorrect that today's situation is better than it was six years ago when HDZ took over. For this you cited as an example that you increased the amount of funds for wages but decreased the purchasing power of Mr. Minister and the spending on household spending fell by 10%, which is the highest since 1999. It is clear to you as economists that it does not matter if you get 10 kilos of money, so you can buy half a kilo of bread for it or get one bill and buy 12 kilos of bread for it. The fact that you've increased the weight of the funds is about something else and the decline of the gross social product by 6%, minus 6.7%, which is most of the 99's that we're not talking about, so it's really about a situation that's not critical, but it's worse. And so, I really don't understand why you keep your eyes closed to a tragic state like this that can only be overcome if you see.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37348	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37349	Well, the imprecise assumption is that Minister Shuker is running costs. In fact, if some of the costs had been raised, such as wages and pensions, we should not be introducing a hacker today. By the end of the year, a billion and 250 million kuna will be collected, less than the government will spend this year on intellectual and personal services, and I repeat, in 2001, it was 126 million today, which is a billion and 300 million. It's basically take the poor to give to your own.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37350	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37351	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct Mr. Secretary's incorrect allegations that this government has been putting order into this country for six years. It's a finished quote. The only order you have managed to bring to this country in the last year is the order of 40,000 unemployed who, if they stood behind each other, would be exactly the order from here to your home in Velika Gorica, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37352	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37353	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of the Minister of Finance, the historian, as he said about the introduction of order. Gentlemen, there is no order or order here anymore. Is the introduction of the order of the decline in investment by 12.5%, the decline in exports by 14.2%, the decline in imports by 20%, about the consumption of the only growing country, about inflation that was 2.8% in May, about the foreign debt that went beyond 40 billion? Is that the introduction of order? But here, let's put our hands on your heart, so better than you, you couldn't have been expected, yet it's HDZ. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37354	Ms. Representative Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37355	Thank you very much. I will correct the quote of Minister Shuker, who, I quote, said "the coalition government has been banging all possible and impossible rights for Croatian citizens since 2000". Mr. Minister, I see you're smiling from your place, but it's really not a laughing matter, and it's really your fault. You know very well that our government has saved and stabilized this country that will work after early elections that will follow very quickly and therefore you must smile because you are sure that the situation will still improve. And let's not forget that the coalition government headed by Prime Minister Racan saved this country from numerous previous HDZ governments. ... Thank you. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37356	And Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, Mr. Shuker, the finance minister, said that by wondering what we were all thinking about Racan's coalition government doing when she was... The expansion of money among other things said we were denying various rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We did not deny rights, Mr Minister, but we systematically and responsibly implemented reforms to recover the economy and join the European Union as soon as possible. And six years after Racan's coalition government, we are in a deep crisis, and membership in the European Union is an uncertain future.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37358	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, so first of all, I have to say, don't use general phrases to correct incorrect allegations, but the incorrect allegation of the quote is corrected, and I'm not telling you a story. It's a replica. But since there's no use in these warnings, I have to say it from time to time. And secondly, according to these budgets that we have registered so far, let's count on us to work up to two, three hours a night, in line with the long tradition in this House, especially in those early times. So let's not be surprised, so let's prepare ourselves mentally and physically. ... Maybe tomorrow, but then the vote on Saturday. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] My people, I'm warning you of the current state of affairs, I'm not saying anything. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] As far as I'm concerned, we can do Saturday. ... Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Yeah. Mr. Maric, on behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, then Mr. Kovacevic on behalf of the Committee on the Economy. Here you go. Are there any other committees coming up?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37359	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Prime Ministers, Vice-Presidents and Ministers in the Government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 38th session held on 27 July 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the amendment and addition of the 2009 State Budget to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 24 July this year. In the introduction, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that in such conditions of the economic crisis and financial constraints, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to propose a rebalancing of the state budget aimed at taking the responsibility of all participants to get out of the crisis. The new rebalance of the 2009 State budget projected total revenues amounting to €111.2 billion, which represents an increase of €1.4 billion compared to the previously planned € 109.8 billion. In the structure of total revenues, the most significant group consists of tax revenues projected at €60.3 billion, which is more than €1.3 billion compared to the plan. The planned increase is based on expected fiscal impacts due to changes in VAT rates from 22% to 23%, changes in special taxes on passenger cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, and the introduction of new forms of special taxes on salaries, pensions and other receipts. The total expenditure of the state budget is defined at 120.5 billion kuna, which is less than the budget after the second rebalance. In this rebalancing of the state budget, expenditures were reduced by 978.6 million kuna and by redistributing and introducing post-preservation support increased by 780.1 million kuna and a total net reduction at the level of the state budget was 260 and a half million kuna. The total revenue of kuna 111.2 billion and total expenditure of € 120 billion is planned to reduce the total government budget of €9.3 billion or 2.8 estimates of gross domestic product. Thus, with this rebalance of the state budget, the total deficit is reduced by 1.6 billion kuna or 0.5 percentage points compared to the plan so far. The Committee discussed the opinion that the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 lacked sufficient respect for the concrete proposals of the Croatian Employers' Association, particularly regarding the reduction of the non-taxable burdens on the economy, as well as the reduction of payment deadlines, which would significantly affect the improvement of the situation in the economy and the rapid overcoming of the economic crisis in Croatia. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia informed members of the Committee on the course of negotiations with the Croatian Employers' Association, and pointed out that this rebalancing is about short-term measures taken to overcome the current crisis, while talks with the Croatian Employers' Association on the adoption of medium- and long-term measures that will create assumptions for faster economic recovery in the Republic of Croatia will continue very quickly. In connection with the role played by the Croatian Employers' Association in overcoming the problem of insolvency in the economy and on several occasions by the state's main indifference generator in the debate, employers also have been warned that sometimes incorrect and non-business behaviours also affect liquidity in the country. In many cases, when the state pays its obligations on time, employers do not pay their obligations to cooperatives, and this affects general indifference. It is necessary to adopt measures as soon as possible to prevent companies from using unintended means of craftsmanship, while at the same time not complying with their current obligations. The opinion was also expressed that the State budget rebalancing in question should have been significantly reduced by the cost of the state, in particular in the items of material expenditure. In the discussion on the board, the opinion prevailed that this rebalancing should be supported because it is a good basis for making the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and following the discussion of the Committee's majority vote, 7 for, 2 against the Croatian Parliament's decision to propose amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 as well as the following decisions: Decisions on granting consent to the amendments and addition of the financial plans of the Croatian Waters for 2009 and the Decision on granting consent to the amendments and addition of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37360	Thank you. Mr Dragan Kovacevic, on behalf of the Committee on Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37361	Dear Mr. President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. At its 28th session on 27 July, the Committee on Economy discussed the 2009 amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee shall be based on Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on that proposal to amend and supplement the state budget with corresponding contributions discussed as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative briefed the board on the basic macroeconomic frameworks, revenues and expenditures, as well as an assessment of the overall lack of the 2009 State budget. There has been a decline in economic activity around Europe and the world in Croatia as a result of the decline in consumption, the fall in industrial production, construction and trade in goods. Thus, as a result of the spillover of the financial crisis to the Croatian economy, there was a real decline in gross domestic product of 6.7% in the first quarter of 2009. The decline in economic activity in 2009 has affected a 10.2% decline in industrial production in the first half of the year at the annual level. In the first 5 months, retail trade has achieved a real decrease of 17% and the number of tourist nights has been reduced by 9.4%. Stock exports registered an annual reduction of 15.5%, while the decrease in goods imports was 25.5%. The measures in the Consumer Prices Index were 3.3% in the first half of 2009. These indicators also conditioned an assessment and an expected realistic reduction in the gross domestic product of 4.5%. These macroeconomic indicators, along with the recent developments in global economic activity, conditioned a new budget revenue plan for 2009 amounting to €111.2 billion, which represents an increase of 1.4 billion kuna compared to earlier planned. Tax revenues, which are the most significant revenue of the budget, are planned at €60.3 billion, which is an increase of €1.3 billion compared to the plan. Tax revenue developments are conditional on expected economic activity by the end of the year, as well as expected fiscal effects of changing VAT rates from 22% to 23%, changing specific taxes on passenger cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, and introducing a new form of tax tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts. In doing so, the largest increase in VAT revenues by 502 million kuna compared to the earlier plan. Income from excise duties is an increase of 30.5 million kuna compared to the original plan and amounts to 8 billion kuna. The total amount planned for the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship remained at the same level as provided for in the previous budget rebalancing. In view of the price of capital and interest rates of commercial banks, the Committee continues to emphasise the strengthening of HBOR's role in fostering entrepreneurship and export support in terms of the price of capital and interest rates of commercial banks. In the debate as well as during the last rebalancing, it was given support to the government to reduce budget spending and stabilise state finances with no new arrangement with the IMF. The board members pointed out that Croatia has enough without both IMF and potential and determination to make the necessary cuts ourselves, but with maximum social sensitivity. The announcement of the devaluation of the kuna to which it is speculated in the professional public, some of which relate to a possible arrangement with the IMF, carries three serious risks. First, for citizens who are users of residential and different consumer loans with a currency clause, which is today in Croatia a large number of citizens, it would be a severe social impact that the state would not be able to amortise especially in the need for cutting state spending. Secondly, a decline in the value of kuna would also mean the country's credit rating automatically falling with all the long-term consequences of capital price, investment and employment. And thirdly, a decline in the value of kuna in the economic crisis would be an inflation generator. During the debate, as with the last rebalancing, the importance of regular payment to economic operators is reiterated so that the state does not result in economic indifference and internal debt. In this context, it was welcomed to hold a meeting in the Government of representatives of HUP and the Government on co-ordinated monitoring and resolution of this problem. As one of the biggest problems in the economy, the first, unfavourable structure and relation of employees in the economy, pensioners and employees in public and state services is highlighted. And secondly, an over-administrative administrative device that burdens the labour price. In connection with the unfavourable structure and relationship of staff of pensioners and employees in public and state services. Today, in Croatia, the ratio of pensioners and those who work 1:1,31, i.e. a million and 518 thousand employees per million and 155,000 pensioners is unfortunately rising from 1.5% to 2% In connection with an excessive administrative apparatus, the government's announced measures on the rapid rationalisation of the state administration are being welcomed. Finally, the debate highlighted the need for an even stronger investment in the economy, as Croatia can extract only entrepreneurship and strong economic growth from this situation. After the debate was held, the committee decided, by a majority vote, 5 votes in favour, one abstention and 2 against, to propose amendments and additions to the 2009 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37362	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37363	Mr. President, members of the government. I submit a report on behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection and on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, as the session was held by both committees held together. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed at a joint session held on 27 July 2009, the proposal to amend and supplement the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament, acting on 24 July 2009. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on the basis of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the amendment and additions of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 as interested working bodies. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative briefly presented the basic macroeconomic indicators for the first 5 months, i.e. for the first half of this year, and pointed out that, according to their developments throughout 2009, a realistic reduction in gross domestic product of 4.5% is expected. The proposed rebalancing total revenues of the 2009 state budget were projected at kuna 111.2 billion, representing an increase of 1.4 billion kuna compared to earlier planned. This increase is primarily due to expected fiscal effects, increasing the value added tax rate from 22% to 23%. By introducing a specific tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts, as well as compensation for providing services in mobile electronic, communication networks, and equating the criteria for taxation of vessels and aircraft with passenger cars and motorcycles. With this rebalancing, the total expenditures are defined at a level of $120.5 billion, which is less than €265.5 million than the budget after the second rebalancing. While the total budget expenditure reduction in 2009 is 6.5 billion kuna compared to the original budget. This reduction in total expenditure of €265.5 million is the result of a decrease in expenditure by €978.6 million and an increase in expenditure by €718.1 million on the other hand. As a result of redistribution and the introduction of support for job conservation. Following the total planned revenue and expenditure of the state budget, the planned total government budget deficit for 2009 is 9.3 billion kuna or 2.8% of the estimated gross domestic product for 2009. This reduced the total deficit by 1.6 billion kuna or 0.5 percentage points compared to the plan so far. The planned funds for the development of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction are reduced by a million 621 thousand 789 kuna, amounting to 434 million 568 thousand 669 kuna. Within this division, the largest part of the reduction refers to the ministry's head, which, with a reduction of 220 thousand and 789 kuna, is now 266 million 402 thousand and 217 kuna. The planned funds for the head of the Environmental Protection Agency have been reduced by 401 thousand kuna, amounting to 14 million 810 thousand 685 kuna. While the planned funds for the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation remain at the same level and amount to 153 million 335 thousand 767 kuna. For the head protection and conservation of nature in the division of the Ministry of Culture, a reduction of 150 thousand kuna was planned, and the funds for these purposes now amount to 71 million 189 thousand 272 kuna. The Debalan planned to reduce education and training by 100 thousand kuna, as well as the position and execution of inspection solutions by 50 thousand kuna. This rebalancing did not plan to amend and supplement the Fund's financial plan for the protection of the environment and energy efficiency, leaving an unchanged amount of the planned surplus of 223 million 335 thousand 631 kuna. After the debate was held, the committees voted mostly, the Committee on Environmental Protection with 7 votes in favour and one vote against and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction with 6 votes and 2 votes against, decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the 2009 Amendment and the addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37364	Thank you. Would the representatives of the other committees like to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37365	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll start at the very end of the discussion by the prime minister, when she talked about someone else's door and about who cut where they cut and touched the local self-government. If that's the way we're gonna reason, it's best if we shut it down. It is best that after years of insisting that the country must be differently arranged, that it must be more decentralised, that people must have greater autonomy in managing their jobs and in spending and investing their money, because it is their money and their responsibility, that they are now determined by who and how much pay they will have. It's a completely wrong way. We think he's unconstitutional, we'll defend him with every possible democratic means. And there's no problem with the mayor's salaries, because they've already been reduced and they'll be reduced. Both in Vukovar, in Zadar, in Zagreb, in Sibenik and in Rijeka. The problem is, in principle, in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, that people must be left with greater autonomy to manage their lives where they live. I had a need to start right off of this and continue by being more than half a year ago in December last year on a proposal for this budget that now goes through who knows what rebalance, a rebalance of despair not the perspective that we didn't have a single amendment and that we said that something that had its problems had been embedded since the beginning so irreparable in our court that the amendment didn't make sense. Today we feel eight months later that the situation is much more difficult. We will try for our part to propose some reasonable solutions on the spending side because it seems to us that the government has not tried to take the spending side seriously. This ultimately stems from the figures themselves, some hundreds of millions of savings at hundreds of billions or over hundreds of billions of costs. We don't think it's a serious job, we don't think it's a serious attempt to get the country out of a serious financial crisis, especially a financial crisis, a crisis of enormous state spending. He said the finance minister would be balanced if there was no global economic crisis. I agree. It's like saying I didn't get sick, you'd be healthy. The key question is why you became sick, whether by your conduct, responsibility, you could have affected the disease, or if it were to fit God’s fate by chance. In our case, it's about irresponsible behavior. We got sick because now we're not going with metaphors too much drinking, smoking, living unhealthyly and taking responsibility for what's happening to us right now. In her opening speech, the prime minister spoke, quote, of the difficult decisions we have made. What kind of difficult decisions are these? I'd like to hear what difficult decisions they're making. I quote the following, among the causes or causes, the foundations of the crisis that happened to us, which we ourselves are said to be, among other things, because banks cannot raise enough funds to maintain the same level of public spending. I'm turning my attention to the word move. Such an understanding of politics, economic policy, financial and fiscal policies as a hint of noose around the neck. Well, it's not that banks can't move, it's that they don't want to, as well as financial world centres don't want to finance this kind of budget and this kind of relationship anymore. So, even when we approach a more serious analysis of this budget, when we propose some measures on the spending side again remains a major deficit. That deficit somehow needs to be resolved, it can't happen by the Holy Spirit spontaneously. It's almost 10 billion kuna. How do you finance it? Deploying, where? As the prime minister says the banks cannot move forward, be careful to raise enough funds to finance and maintain an equal level of public spending. Well, I can't, and it won't, we're going out, we're going to Asia, we're going to go in charge of the amounts that someone else is going to pay back at a very high rate. Who is responsible for such unfavourable conditions of borrowing of the Croatian state? Well, it's not just a financial, global and economic crisis. Well, I guess our reputation and our reputation for it are also responsible. And who's responsible for that reputation? Is Racan, the late President Tudjman, the government of Milan Stojadinovic. Who's responsible? So this government that's been running this country for five and a half years. Our opinion is that this government is a government that should no longer be in debt on behalf of Croatian people under such conditions as no single euro, no single penny, because we believe that money is not in safe hands. And we don't see what the 2010 budget will look like after all these turbulences, after the third rebalancing, after stories of heavy measures how much the expenditure in the budget is reduced, 5, 6, 7 billion kuna. What's that? Any idea what next year's budget will look like? Is that 120 billion kuna, is that 110, is that 95, 98? So we can't see from anything in this rebalancing that next year's budget will look like, but from nothing but a single word from the finance minister who unfortunately spoke again about recent history as well as the prime minister. We can't even imagine what it's cut, where it's cut, how it's cut, what the brave measures are. I was in this House a few weeks ago when the government and when the prime minister got the trust I said I wanted her a lot of courage. I don't see that courage. And I also said that Croatia, like any normal state, can only have one government, so there it is. A few weeks later, two budget rebalances later, we're talking about some tough decisions we've made. Which are, say, time in this debate. Is this a decision to impose 2% or 4% on all net wages, is that a decision to raise VAT? These are decisions remedied in a financial system imposed by the state by excessive and irrational consumption. That's what needs to be taken care of. That's a hell of a lot. No one here calls on the IMF, but in this situation I have the least confidence in this government that they will be in high-quality debt, that this debt will be well-financed, that the interest will be as such and that this money will be responsibly and rationally spent. I'm sorry, we don't trust that. In that situation I have more confidence in the IMF, but not to come to the IMF because we don't want it to be possible to avoid it, we think, and we're going to do it again multiple times today and we are in these weeks, and that's what some other people are going to say. We believe that this government does not have the kind of legitimacy for borrowing and for extracting the country from this crisis and that it would be fairer to disband the Parliament and discuss early parliamentary elections. And because you're in a pre-election campaign and you're going to allow it isn't a distant history, it was recently, saying that new taxes won't be and because of what we think they are, and that's what let us believe that if we get that money on the international market it's in uncertain hands and that you don't have citizens' trust for it. You can think differently, this is our position, in this House we will defend it. We're not calling either the IMF or the street. So let's go back to the 2010 budget because this debate at this point if they ask you what you would do and we'll have proposals, serious proposals for those with whom our government has not come out, but it would still be working to take responsibility for a team that loses 2:0 in 89 minutes, there is possibly another minute in case of compensation and that's it and it's not a real game. So tell us, gentlemen, Minister of Finance, a prime minister we haven't heard from, how you see the 2010 budget. There have been many times, but no contours, no outlines of that budget can be seen. What are the costs that will inevitably have to be reduced? I won't talk, I won't talk, I won't talk, I won't talk, I won't say, I won't do, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I Slow down, focus on real frames. The smartest are so-called. ordinary people. They know as much as they can and have already adapted to this crisis. The reduced level of public or personal consumption best says that people are both without the harras and before the haraks, as roughly here, in the manner Smail-age Cengic speaks. Smail-age Cengića, harak, harak, Ivan Mažuranić, a respected colleague. That's if I'm not wrong about the Croatian writer. You may not have learned that, but it's good. It's never bad to remind you of that. Nightshade, an angulation company. You know that, the Croatian literature. ... People are already... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] And the Cob is at the end, so five. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's the literature teacher, she's close to you, she'll teach you. So, where will those funds come from? But an ordinary man has already adapted to this crisis, has reduced his consumption because he knows what with his money he can do before the wages are cut and before these new tax burdens have been introduced whose function is only to save the political fate of the government and what such sustainability of the budget. That's not gonna help either. This isn't a good job in our court. Don't go anywhere. But even if we think this year is lost, let's talk about 2010. We'll do it again down the road. What's the 2010 plan? Funding this level of state spending and expenditure by increasing the VAT of 23% and imposing on wages between 2% and 4%? Well, Mr. Finance Minister, you know that's not real. These are the difficult decisions that the government has not even spelled or stopped yet, let alone the excuses, which will need to be made and for which a new mandate of Croatian peoples and Croatian citizens is needed. The elections are at this moment the most correct, fairest and correct thing for Croatia, and that is the political position. You can correct the wrong all you want. That's the attitude. We cannot do it by force, nor by will, nor by thought, but we must repeat that for this kind of experiment, you have not received a mandate from Croatian voters. Well, they just weren't responsible for what's going on, and we think he's responsible. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is a time for everything, as the former HDZ president said in his outgoing letter. We believe this is the time for early elections, that it is time for the change of government in Croatia. But regardless of who knows which times, this time we'll be constructive and prove to you that it's possible to make even bigger savings, that it's possible without introducing these controversial taxes that we can't support, to make a smaller hole in the structure of the budget. As for borrowing, the conditions under which we are in debt are unfortunately due to the work and rating and reputation of Croatia provided by this government. No interpretation of history can draw a different conclusion. That's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37366	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37367	Thank you, Mr. President. At first, it is incorrect that we have come into this situation because of irresponsible behavior. Namely, fellow Milanovic would be better off looking at the small world around you, not through the prism of SDP and red, but at realistic indicators, so you would know that the European Union in the financial sector from the state budget has given over 3,000 billion euros by April this year, that the United States will have a deficit of nearly 2,000 billion dollars. So it is certainly not because of the irresponsible behaviour of this government that this situation occurred. Second, you say we don't want the IMF. Well, right from your ranks is called the IMF. From your ranks, from the ranks of the SDP. Third, we don't trust citizens. We have citizens' trust gained clearly in the 2007 parliamentary elections and, if you will, in these latest local elections, which are only a few months ago. And in Dubrovnik, or Dubrovnik-Neretva County, both in Ploča and Vela Luka, so in all those places where you've been doing it as wonderfully as you thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37368	Mr. Markovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37369	Thanks for the ride, but I have to say it anyway. First of all, this rebalancing is certainly not a rebalancing of despair, because if it were, then it would certainly include all those who are not now. So this time really richer will help the poor, that's for sure. ... That's one thing. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Second. You're desperate, obviously, gentlemen, because the media expects you to do something, and you're not religious, and you're praying that it doesn't happen, because you know you're not able to take over power or do anything. ... Thank you. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37370	We're not religious, but that's why we don't blaspheme like you. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37371	Can I ask my colleague to calm down? (Laughter) Calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37372	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I am correcting the incorrect allegations, which is what MP Milanovic said was no one calling the IMF. That's not true, exactly the opposite. Slavko Linic, the creator of SDP's economic policy, advocates the arrival of the IMF, of course at the cost of cutting down everything that is cut down to, therefore, pensions, salaries, to quit, to lift incentives for agriculture, to eliminate some investments and other things, and should indeed be said then if you are already looking for early elections, tell the public everything you will end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37373	Mr. Boris Matkovic, please. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37374	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I am correcting the incorrect allegations of counterpart Milanovic, who said the government is irresponsible. Mr Milanovic, this government is very responsible because it clearly shows and has shown that it is trying to maintain jobs and social status, unlike you who are proposing your anti-recession measures to increase the budget by 15 billion. So where would you rebalance it now and even it? That's one thing. The second is an incorrect quote relating to the IMF. You are the ones who call upon the IMF and who respects this government would like to cut. And it is also called upon by your Mr. Linic who would fire 70,000 workers in the state administration, 30,000 in the public administration, and then he should definitely ask the voters and tell them if you are calling for early elections that is what he wants, so let him speak openly to the people what he is looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37375	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37376	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me correct my colleague Milanovic when you said the state imposed irrational spending. So that's incorrect because I don't think it's irrational consumption, I think you don't think so, even though I don't understand what you said then. So, separation for defenders, for the economy, for pensions, for health care, for education and for everything the state cares about. Hence, it is not an exact quote. The exact assumption would be that what we're supposed to do is we can't cover the current charge, and now we're doing what we're doing because we have to do it to save these elements that I'm talking about again. You've asked a lot of questions here, and I'm surprised at what you're up against, and you've shown here that you really don't know what you want. You know only one thing, you want elections, but on this basis you really didn't deserve them because you didn't show any power in favour of any argument at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37377	Thank you. Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37378	Thank you very much. So I would correct this quote by my colleague Milanovic. Says this government shouldn't be borrowing another penny. The government has not been in charge of new expenditure in the long term and of new expenditures since 2008. Only for the payment of old dues. That's why this government is the government's total debt in 40 million, when we talk about the total debt, 40 billion euros, this government has reduced its share from 20% to 17% in the last 3 years, precisely with such reasonable management, and the prerequisite for that was, of course, the consolidation of the treasury under the leadership of this government and this minister. Another false allegation, you didn't get the voter's mandate for this. Yes, we've been given a term of office for four years, meaning in those four years and good and evil. We've led for good, we'll lead for evil, and this people know that this party in the greatest evil is working successfully. Let's think of something you don't remember, Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37379	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37380	Honorable gentlemen, Mr. President, ministers, distinguished Members of Parliament. First, I stay on every word I said last time in this second rebalancing, that this remnant of the rest of Sanader's government that has brought Croatia into a crisis of unsuspecting proportions cannot get Croatia out. Secondly, the very best thing that has happened to Croatia in the last six years is the departure of the former prime minister, to paraphrasise Mr. Seks, now that he called it the most liberal capitalism, that media and only one thing would probably be worse than that of the tycoons created by the government there in the 1990s tomorrow taking over power. And the only solution, I think, is early elections, that the new government and the country get a little peace. Why do you gentlemen vote? Not if he were to get off the course and ride a murt, but if these elections were to bring a programme, a budget, if it wasn't a waste of time, they'd give the citizens an exit valve, it wouldn't be radicalized, look at what's going on at some concerts in Biograd where the President of the Republic is called a traitor. Doesn't that lead to radicalization with the home-ready screams, now that you're yelling, I expect the same thing here? Who's gonna deal with him? Probably the institutions wouldn't collapse if we had early elections, the street wouldn't run politics and finally, let the citizens vote for whoever they want, let them vote for HDZ, SDP, IDS, HSS, I don't know, but let's not play the bankruptcy manager here right now. Secondly, I claim that we also knew everything. I was saying perhaps the only one still in 2007 when the external debt amounted to 32 billion euros that by the end of the 2nd term of the Government of Ivo Sanader we would be in debt of 50 billion euros, that we would be in debt for the period of 18 billion, and that we would have to return 25 billion euros. But that was then, and today it looks like this. In 2009, we need to return 14.7 billion euros. Of which, a billion and 200m euros are spent on banks 5.8 billion, on companies 5.9 billion euros, on foreign investments of a billion and 800m euros. In 2010, it comes at a charge of 6.3, with no additional debt, billions of euros, 2011 even more so. In the next three years, counting here and 2009 we need to return 30 billion euros. Croatia can't do that clearly. I was talking about the first rebalancing, whatever the deficit of $3.4 billion, I was saying that if there was a decline in gross social product 6.7% then it would reach about 20 billion kuna, but it would be at least 15 billion kuna. Mr. Rohatinski spoke 14 and more, but I was the champion of stupidity for Mr. Sanader at the time, for some in HDZ, and now I'm saying, for this one, I'm fine, but now I'm going to say, and then I'm going to move on, but for this Croatian uncertainty, I think someone should really answer, and who's the most responsible? I also claim that the former prime minister and government. Those who are responsible for this economic, moral, social need to get gentlemen not "Slight Vitra", so it's called the yacht at which the former prime minister sails, but should get a lot of vitres and paraphrase our vice president, that yacht, we've identified it well, we should now locate it somewhere and anchor it up there somewhere in the height of the Golog Island, because without doing something like that or saying it, without it, gentlemen of the people on the streets, they will not be led by opposition or unions, but the people will lead empty stomachs. That's the problem. This land has been stolen to the core. Everyone who could've slapped her. I, when he throws himself at me on this right hand side, will say to HDZ for the sake of the state's creation, the people forgave both privatisation and conversion, but this today won't. Today we see who is being fenced from, even Croatian Radio Television, I see that the church does not defend any laws either, you remain gentlemen alone with the help of HSS, HSLS, parts of minorities, but I think that is enough that authority, but that is not enough for Croatia. Croatia, I would even dare say, is easier to finance the war than it will finance this exit from the crisis and I think we understand that and should keep that in mind. Now look at the deception that's going on. Afterwards, the crisis tax will only last until the end of 2010. Well, I'm gonna say, no matter what, it won't be lifted by the HDZ, I'm afraid it won't be lifted after that by the opposition when it comes to power because it won't have anywhere to go. What is this embarrassing tax, that job tax and pension tax, more specifically in terms of age? 3 January HDZ held its 13th The parliament, and Minister Schuker said that which "bankrupt country pays salaries, pensions in order", and 20 days later we were afraid that either taxes or no salaries or no pensions. I understand, I understand even the government, where to save, there's nowhere to save. You can't even save if you don't have 100, but 110% of the budget in advance for salaries, pensions, welfare, debt payments, etc. So if we want to reduce the deficit, we have to increase revenues in some way. And what does that look like? So next year we're going to take 5 billion kuna to the poor. But five billion kunas won't be enough to take all these tax breaks. In fact, the bottom of this crisis will reach somewhere in the middle of last year before the start of the tourist season. Now I will pay 720 thousand 167 workers with those 2%, plus 247 thousand 323 pensioners with 2%. Plus that 310 thousand 352 workers with 4%, plus 42 thousand pensioners with 4%. In total, it's a million 319 thousand 842 hundred workers, which retires plus 4.5 million people through VAT. These mean 2% to 4% on salary, on pension, to me it looks like that Milosevic loan to Serbia. I claim the 2010 budget will be hit by all employees, all pensioners. How? They'll come nice. The arrival of the IMF, and then we will once devalue the kuna, automatically pay goes down, pensions go, but what's worst is credit growth, and for them the people will fight on the street. So do not touch the kuna, but keep the crown as the pupil of your eye. I think we understand each other here. The Croatian state is like a house after an earthquake. We can patch her up, but it's a waste of our time. These walls should be torn down and all start over. And this job will somehow belong to the opposition. But if the opposition tampered with her mandate, her term of office will be shorter than Sanader's second term. And that's what I'm gonna say. What do you need? You need to change the first one, the second one, the third one in the country. It's everywhere where corruption is suspected. This corruption ate Croatia. To go to Berlin to get that floppy from Linhenstein, help Vienna, Berlin to launder money from HYPO bank in Croatia. Ask the tycoons how they got to the first million euros. I know it might be the strongest. The role of Parliament should be strengthened through direct selection. To fight the radicalization I was talking about, to change that Croatian mentality. Especially in public service, not in private. That no one can pay me as little as I can work. Enough of that redistribution life that the state will do anything for someone. The state needs to be decentralized, it needs to be trained if you want to. And you have to understand that either you yourself will do something for Croatia after that Kennedy, don't just ask what the state will do for you, but what you are willing to do for this country. It just needs to be given as '91. A year. Stories that we will increase spending, exports overnight, again industrialise Croatia. Well, those are stories for naives. Well, you can't start the export when we don't have the industry. First, that industry needs to be created. Industry is the first economic branch only in one Croatian county in Istria County. Our exports are e.g. Two times bigger than the one in the Primorje-Gorski County. And they have 100,000 inhabitants more. We rescheduled the Istrian Bank ourselves. Oil, don't sell it. Because the state doesn't cost a single kuna. We finance ourselves through a concession to build that ipsilon. And in the budget, we're represented with 57 million kuna. Croatia should stop riding on some Pelješki bridges. Okay, someone's gonna say they're giving it up. And all out-of- budget funds need to be subdued under budget. From HAK, road, water, etc. There's a problem. And give up all those projects that don't carry money. For the last time, representatives of the Slavon-Baranja Party proposed the abolition of 300 million kunas of shipbuilding and giving to farmers of that money. The truth in the last 10 years of shipbuilding received at least 14 billion kuna from the budget. Only through the form of guarantees. It's zero kuna oil. But so much more agriculture. But I agree that this Slavonic peasant needs help. He defended Croatia, and in return he got very, very little. However, it cannot be won at $3.5 million another billion and a half as promised by the former vice presidents and the present. Because with a billion and a half, maybe we should finance interest in industry, and exports, and trade, and agriculture. But that's why they need to get something much more valuable and it's a differentiated VAT rate on all domestic agricultural products to stop that uncontrollable import of food. That this VAT is paid for the domestic product by 10% and the import food is 23%, even if they never went to the European Union. Of course, it's so easy to say. But without Europe, we know our ratings are dropping, without external duty, we're a coat again. And clearly with VAT, I say, when the president calls me, it's not a problem in 23 or 24% of VAT. You can also cancel the zero rate. But you need to pay that VAT from 30 days to 60 days. In those 8 days, they also had 30 days before, and introduced a 10% VAT on domestic food, water, electricity, gas, children's supplies, etc. And this is how many in this country will unfortunately be hungry. And for the end. That the crisis is in one Italy, and in one Germany, and in Austria, and in France, and in America and there the factories, the banks, the general engine but not their state. And in Croatia, factories and individuals and states fail. And that seems to be the difference between each other. I'm sure, I'm sure we'll have another rebalance by the end of the year. And I'm afraid the IMF will come from that budget. I have a real reason to be afraid. And Croatia will with income, etc. our consumption will be returned there in 2000, 2001 or third year. What did that look like? In 2005, the state budget was 90.9 billion kuna. 2006. 97.8 billion. 2007 111. 2008 121, 2009. 128, then 120.3 etc. Billion. The price from 2005 to 2009 increased by 16%. It's a 33% budget and it's broken. We spent faster than the growth of gross social product. And the state just spent it. And what the minister was talking about, it's true. Peace and Health in 2004 44 billion, now 64 billion plus 43%, state salary 15.9%, now 22.18%, plus 39.2%. Donations to local self-government 3.4 now 5.3 plus 53%. Agriculture subsidies 1.9 billion kuna, now 3.35 plus 72%. Subsidies to the economy 1.89 now 3.11%) plus 64.65%. So for the end of what I say, let me finish, I'll make a joke like this. I read that Mrs. Prime Minister came up with a rebalance when she was washing the dishes. I'm not going to suggest that she worship her washing machine, she certainly doesn't need it, no, but we can call this rebalancing if we have one Christmas constitution, we'd say in Istria the resuscitated, washed rebalancing after which we will all pray to God that the Prime Minister doesn't buy us a washing machine because only then will we see his God. I'm joking this is still good, we're still breathing, but I repeat, the bottom is waiting for us gentlemen in the first half of next 2010. And I don't insult anyone. I've never done it for this pay phone, and I don't think so in the future. And you stop insulting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37381	All 13 corrections, though. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. So the correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs. Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37382	Thank you, Mr. President. Here in the sea of incorrect allegations that Mr. Cain made in his address, he was probably preparing for crickets while others were preparing budget rebalancing. I'm going to correct his inaccuracies that touched me most, and that's the street leading politics. That sentence in these serious moments is actually just a political abuse of social dialogue, and of course it also marks its shortsightedness. The government has not simply imposed the measures envisaged as its earlier decision on itself, but are the result of marathon agreements with the social partners. So, the street would neither lead politics nor lead it, because if the street in the Semantic meaning of Mr. Cain is marked by government, coalition partners together with trade unions and employers, I think we have a problem. If Mr. Cain is the only proposal for budget rebalancing is early elections, in which case you as an opposition member would be overexplained, and especially to Mr. Linic, whom I no longer see here from the opposition ranks, who called on the IMF on the radio this morning. If this is your only suggestion that things are in opposition today and dealing only with the division of chairs, I think it is a key problem for Mr Caina whether she will participate in the presidential or parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37383	Thank you. Mr. Josip Djakić, here's your correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37384	Mr. President, I'm going to correct an incorrect quote from my colleague Caine where he claimed that this budget rebalance and this introduction of 2 and 4% of the poor will take 5 billion kunas. This is absolutely incorrect, because this proposal clearly shows that all those up to 3,000 kunas will not be burdened with anything and will not participate in this rebalancing. Nine hundred thousand pensioners won't get two or four percent. So are 600 thousand employees. When you talk about the budget and this rebalancing, when you talk about state policy, you certainly appreciate how you would do it better, but I don't believe it, because certainly as you couldn't control the home budget, you wouldn't even know the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37385	Thank you. Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37386	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I am correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect claim about a shameful tax. I definitely must tell you, Mr Cain, that we are actually talking about the principles of fairness and equality and proportionality on the basis of which everyone in the Republic of Croatia is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in proportion to its opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37387	Thank you. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37388	So here's the same thing I'm correcting my colleague Caine, besides saying that this tax is a disgraced tax, which is definitely not true, because the poorest layers, so all those who have a salary of three thousand kuna will not touch this tax. However, it did not bother a colleague of Cain to reduce the wages of the authorities in which the IDS participated and those who had the least. Let him ask our staff in the Parliament, they're happy to recall those times. It's each other. My colleague Caine is very happy to say that this country has destroyed corruption, which is definitely not true. Neither the land is destroyed nor corruption has as much as my colleague Cain would have wanted. But I'm warning him, or I'm telling him purely friendly, if one day he becomes president of the state, let him not throw himself away with bringing money from the Cayman Islands, which the current president has almost arrived in eight years, and then he jumps to Liechtenstein much closer, and that's right at the beginning of his term.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37389	Thank you. Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37390	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a colleague of Cain's is incorrect and it's offensive to say that someone's taking the people through the Peles Bridge. You colleagues first incorrectly, secondly you insult all citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, because you obviously want them to remain disfellowshipped in their rights to live connected to the queen of Croatia. Well, you think that's funny. Dear SDP colleagues, it's funny to you that every day we cross the border in Neum, it's funny to you. It's funny to you that when we enter the European Union tomorrow, the Schengen regime will not be able to cross that line, because of the traffic that will take place in the Schengen way. Furthermore, it is incorrect and offensive for a colleague to give up the bridge as well. You didn't listen well to the Prime Minister. She said it was a reduced amount. So the bridge continues to build, but with reduced intensity, but it continues to build. It's about this year, it'll be about next and all the next years, and I'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37391	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37392	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to ask my colleague Cain to learn how to pronounce a name once. It's not the Slavonian-Baranja Party, so it's the correction, it's the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, because you wouldn't like me to say the Istrian Party as you say it is, but the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja. And our amendments, secondly, were not heavy 300 million, but 400 million and not only for Slavonia and Baranja, but for all dairy and cereal producers in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37393	Mr. Nevio Šetić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37394	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd have more than one quote from Mr. Cain to correct, but I'm going to correct one who said that in the world companies fail, businesses fail, so factories, but not countries fail, and countries fail in Croatia. I would make it right, because it's completely incorrect and it proves that in the House of Commons we don't understand the problem we are at all, because we are legitimately managing our finances so that what we are incomeing can be spent. So in the way that you're offering a solution here, you can't produce yourself, you can't be that subject because the circumstances that led to this situation aren't just ours, they're much wider. That's what I'm correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37395	Thank you. Correction by representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37396	Mr. President. I would correct the inaccuracies of fellow Caine, who said that money was taken from the poor. Well, it's simply unacceptable for fellow Cain to be a presidential candidate for the future, or a man who has run for president, to deceive people and bring confusion and unrest. So it's incorrect to take the poor guy's money if it's known that no one who has a salary of up to 3,000 kunas will be taken any lip, and no one who has a pension of up to three thousand kunas will be taken away from any lip. And one more thing and it has to be corrected, Mr. President, I apologize for taking so much time. According to counterpart Cain, Croatia has been easier to finance war than this crisis, such as financing war and the war consequences, will end the process. Even now, Croatia stands out through I think 8 to 10% of GDP for the direct and indirect consequences of the war. Well, if it wasn't for what Croatia would look like now, no matter what we deceive people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37397	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37398	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll correct one in a series of incorrect allegations. And Agent Cain said the country's going down, the individual's going down. That's really not true. It is this rebalancing of the budget that speaks of one stability to economic, financial Croatia, but since it has read something, I will also read what Zoran Milanovic said in relation to his message. This is how he said: "We have to stop the investment in road construction, stop with the current way of subsidising shipbuilding and agriculture, we need to break down coalitions with pensioners and peasants because it is too expensive in Croatia. That's why we don't need them in this government, I'm telling Zoran Milanovic." He said Cain. Here you see, Mr. Caine, that the country will fail to destroy individuals. The farmers would be ruined, the pensioners would be ruined, all those who work in health care, and that's your way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37399	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37400	I'd also like to correct between a series of allegations that Mr. Caine listed who said he was driving along various country bridges. Mr. Caine, we've talked about this more than once, and you've crashed on that project more than once. You are using the current situation and newspaper articles to create a negative picture of the project in public. It is easy from the position of Istria, from the position of the north of Croatia to criticise the situation. The Pelješki bridge is necessary to the south of Croatia, the Pelječki bridge is necessary to all Croatia if we want to integrate and I personally do not want you to mention this bridge in a negative context so many times, and I do even disagree that this item has been reduced in the budget even though we have said that it is an extra- budget item we have to solidarity but we will discuss it later in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37401	Thank you. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37402	Thank you. Mr. President. Well, my colleagues have already corrected a whole series of allegations, it's hard to correct my colleague Caine, it's common. Well, here, this budget will take everything away from the poor. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Nearly a million-and-a-half people won't even feel it, and fortunately, they won't feel it. Also, in the end, you mentioned how the budget came into being, as well as the joke. They're not time for a joke and it's come as a product for a really long time here I'd say from the whole time of negotiations and the coalition of this government and with the social partners and I don't think it's time to do it this way or in a joke when we're really ahead of the serious step of making this rebalancing that you're joking in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37403	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37404	Thank you. Mr. President. I would correct my colleague Cain's allegations that the HDZ rebalancing of the government has no solution. Well, Mr. Cain, this rebalancing actually shows something else, which is that the government respects all members of the ruling coalition, but also that the social partnership is not just a mere form, but the goal is to hear the opinion of all interested people in order for the dialogue to come to the best solution, you should know that. But obviously that's not what you're interested in, you're obviously obsessed with a little campaign that you're running at the expense of your competition for the president of the state. Here, I wish you good luck because that's how you're showing up here, the problems that someone really wants to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37405	Thank you. It's always nice to hear good wishes. And Mr. Dragan Vukic's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37406	Mr. Cain, you spoke of Croatia as a house which was cracked by walls and you said it would be best to tear down and rebuild. Mr. Cain, what you've been doing for the last twenty years since I've been following the political scene in the Republic of Croatia is exactly what you've been doing, banging the walls of the Croatian state, and thank God you don't go after God. She is grateful to God for the hard foundations, she is guided by wise and smart people, and she is armed by the hands of national conscious people who will not allow you to do what you said. We regretted a lot more than 2% and 4% to make the state, so we don't regret either 2% or 4% to make the country better. Peter Graso sings to me "Strange people live here, everything they like crucible" and it's worth everything to you that's worth drinking. Don't do it like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37407	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37408	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, just a few sentences of notice. The Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, here has brought out the third-in-a-kind draft budget of the Republic of Croatia's budget. The proposals she came forward with here are proposals that we disagree with at the HNS club but put them out in a way that tries to impose one serious and responsible debate, trying to give a tone to this debate that these difficult times deserve and what attempts, one by the government in one way, the other by the opposition in another, to deal with this crisis and try to define the effective means of exit that such a situation deserves. And in that sense, I respect her way. On the other hand, Minister of Finance Shuker, both former and present, and in this situation is taking advantage of this opportunity to transfer solely at the level of almost escalating remarks responsibility for the situation in which we found ourselves at the four years of the opposition government, after which he has been here for six years and since 19 years, HDZ has led this country and now we are where we are. I ask you most beautifully, yes, I will certainly try to keep the seriousness in this debate, but I ask you most beautifully that you, in this debate, too, are taking the Minister seriously, because this really doesn't make sense. No matter what, I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister and I was prepared to listen very carefully to you, but you were not prepared to say anything about what is in the budget, which you suggest, what are your arguments. I can accept them or not, but we're absolutely interested in your arguments. And for accusations and outwitting, it's not the time. Let me get to the budget. The fundamental purpose of this rebalancing should be to give the economy space so that it can work, that it can breathe and get us out of the crisis. For such a basic task and the purpose of this rebalancing, the first and primary task is to reduce consumption, the cost has been cut. However, what happens to this budget or this rebalancing? This budget reduces costs, thus reducing budget costs by around 260 million kuna. Incomes are increasing by additional tax burdens by around a billion and 380 million kuna. The total profit for the state budget is a billion 647 million and some kuna. The remaining budget gap or uncovered costs are 9 billion 327 million and more kuna. So with all these rebalances, 9.3 billion remain uncovered. What are we gonna do with that? Will the state stop paying the bills? It's already stopped. Salaries, executives. What's going to happen to those nine billion, or are we going to go into another whole set of budgets? So it is obvious that a different concept of the budget is necessary, a different way of thinking about the budget, not just redistributing the items plus tax credits in citizens' pockets. The government is acting like some kind of reverse Robin Hood or they warned me Super Hika, take the poor and give it to the privileged. And it's not true, this series of corrections of incorrect allegations, because let someone here with parliamentary salaries explain to me how to live with, say, three thousand and 500 kuna, and even four thousand kuna. Guys, let's not be serious. You can't live with it, you live with it terribly hard, and we don't know it because we have different salaries. But don't say that someone who has four thousand kunas pay or pension that they're not people who are existentially threatened. Well, of course they are, you try living with four thousand kunas on your salary. So it's really not about us being outsmart, it's about trying to see how it might be better to get rid of the situation that we've been in. Here, precisely because I believe that this debate requires seriousness, I'm going to say some indications for a different concept of budget that would not only be cutting by items and redistributing within the existing one, but would think in a different way about the budget. The first point of these indications for a different concept is certainly taxation dividends. On the other hand, those who reinvest that dividend should be stimulated to do so. Therefore, when the dividend is reinvested it needs to be taxed, but when it is drawn out it should certainly be taxed. The second point is necessary, and this is an energy stop and clean up corruption and irresponsible business. There's a reserve in the billions. I'll give you only two examples. One is HEP, buys electricity by 80 and sells by 20. Only there was nearly a billion kuna thrown, which is 2/3 of what will be taken away or obtained by this tax of 2% and 4% on salaries and pensions. So only there, at that one transaction in a public enterprise was thrown out of the 2/3 window of what is now to be taken by employees and pensioners. Or let's take another example of HAC, in 2003, one kilometer of highway cost 4 million, today it costs 17 million. Prices went up, say, 20, 25%, let's say the ground is harder, so the price doubled. It's doubled $8 million. Where's the other nine million a mile? Where do people get 17 million a mile? And there's more than 20 public companies like that. Now imagine, let's say it's not corruption, although it seems suspicious to me, but let's just say it's just irresponsible business, so imagine that in over 20 public companies, a responsible and controlled business is being introduced, as much as it would be saved, or if you want to cut expenditure. Third point, to agree with trade unions and employers, growth pays for growth in the economy and productivity as a permanent basis. Fourthly, and I am sorry that there is no Minister of Public Administration here because in his hands is a great potential job, which is to stop the increase in the number of employees in state services and public enterprises and introduce objective strict quality criteria, rewarding quality and firing the people who are manifestly incompetent and those who are crowded in these public enterprises through any standard of such a type of enterprise in Europe and the world. Introduce order to the public administration and audit the mass of state agencies for which most not only do they not know what they are doing, but they don't even know they exist. The fifth point is to form through the HBOR state private fund, select management on the market and to finance the development of the energy sector of agriculture and tourism to use such a single fund. The sixth, funds from the increase in VAT, which is, as we know, a tax on everything, directed to the economy and to encourage companies or successful businesses in all branches of the economy. We need success, we need success wherever we can find it, according to where we see it, and we have a successful company, a successful business, let's give people air so that they can function and that they can help us all get out together. Seven, the already mentioned issue of fostering agriculture. Obviously, I think there is no longer a dilemma that it is necessary to reform the foundations for the allocation of incentives in agriculture. This will have to be done by entering the European Union, the incentives in agriculture can no longer be based exclusively on the surface, they must include the element of the quantity, so the quantities of products per hectare, must respect certain standards that we will have to respect both tomorrow in the European Union and thus address the question of where people have hectares and hectares of pastures that once a year cut and therefore get incentives in agriculture. Therefore, the new model for determining incentives in agriculture is at the door as an integral part of the common agricultural policy of the European Union. Let's start with this. Within the issue of fostering agriculture, it is essential that people dealing with agricultural production require it to determine what the priorities of Croatian agriculture will be. People want and can reorient in their production, but they can't be from today to tomorrow, they can't be from one year to the next. They must be given time to understand the priorities of Croatian agriculture, which will be, and the criterion of course is where we are competitive, where we can be competitive on the European market. Using European funds to stimulate the development of agriculture, instead of the money of our taxpayers. Obviously, we need to establish a system of central and regional development agencies to decentralised and knowledge, we need fiscal decentralisation. On the tenth, it is necessary whether the amendments to the Public Procurement Act or otherwise, but perhaps the Public Procurement Act is the most appropriate one, it is necessary to regulate the issue of payment of the State. The state does not pay and produce a spiral of indifference where a number of private companies and companies are in decline. It is necessary to put an end to the state's non-payments and to stop the indifference it produces. These 10 points are the proposal of the HNS Club and our indications in which we should go by considering a new structure or new approach to building a budget. In addition to these measures, on behalf of the HNS Club, I ask the Government to submit a report to this Parliament, since now the Pelješke Bridge has been transferred to 2015 how much money has been spent on works on the Pelješa Bridge? That's what this Parliament needs to know, it's our job to know that, and we're asking that that information be given to us here. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, elections are no big deal. Elections are just a normal way of orderly democratically transferring power. I suggest you think about it. On behalf of the HNS Club, we won't support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37409	Thank you. In the 13th and 18th minutes, the time provided for in Article 207 for the application of a 10-minute hearing. And now we have corrections to incorrect allegations. Mr. Mario Zubovic is first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37410	Thank you very much. Here, as very often Mrs Pusic utters one assumption, that assumption which is incorrect or false turns into truth and then talks about it as if that assumption exists and that it is true. So she said Minister Shuker transferred responsibility to the former coalition government. It's just not true. In his speech, Minister Shuker compared the budget that was in 2004 with the budget that he was planning this year and did not intend to compare with that with his comparison to burden the former coalition government. Mrs. Pusic, you have offended yourself and left the assembly. If you're as president of the state being insulted and out of meetings, it's not gonna be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37411	Correction, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37412	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting Mrs. Pusic's incorrect allegations that the debate of the Prime Minister was merely an attempt at a serious and responsible debate on budget rebalancing. Mrs Pusic, even though you said, quote I will keep the seriousness of the debate, I hold that everything you have said remains only for the attempt of serious and responsible discussions on budget rebalancing, the whole series of facts proves it, especially when comparing electricity prices in different time periods. Please take a look... The stock market, look at the London Stock Exchange, in January of this year, in July of this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The lack of feeling that you understand the changes that have taken place in global world markets is one reason why all those dealing with energy policy are wrong, and they hardly know anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37413	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37414	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the incorrect information colleague Pusic said was that the price of kilometers at the time of their government was 4 million kuna, and that now it is 17 million kuna. Comparative data were being produced, and it was precisely seen that this price was actually approximate and that it did not match, when the average price was seen at that time and today. But something else is completely different. Mr. Kalmeta did not sign, as your minister did with his companies contracts at hundreds of millions of kunas in these papers. So he didn't do it unlike your minister and in any case more transparent behavior. Secondly, the Peljek Bridge was not delayed for 2015. You did not listen well, nor did you listen to a part of those who convey what you say. It's clear that the Peljev Bridge is continuing to operate. This year, instead of the estimated 200 million kunas, there will be 100 million kunas, but it continues to work. Don't deceive the public because there's no reason for that. So, the entry of the Peljega Bridge is still in the budget and it will go this year and next, only instead of ending by 2012, will end by 2015, but perhaps even before the situation is fixed, we believe it will improve.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37415	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here's your correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37416	So I'm correcting for who knows which time in the name of clubs it's heard that the point is actually this rebalancing that doesn't fit the moment and that the point is to take the poor and give the rich. That's completely incorrect. So every time from now on, I will correct that this rebalance predicts 900 thousand pensioners and 600 thousand workers, so no lip will be taken away. So, debt pensions and salaries go over 19%. So it is evenly deployed and I deeply believe that this is a rebalancing of solidarity, balance, stability, balance between fostering the economy and preserving social justice. So this is the third attempt by this government to offer real solutions to getting out of the crisis, every time it starts with the first step, and I think this is the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37417	Thank you. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37418	I am correcting the quote of counterpart Pusic, who stressed that a new model of incentives is being introduced in agriculture. I have to say yes, but unfortunately not what she said per kilogram, but income by economy, which is even more tragic. In 2001, we missed the opportunity to bring incentives of a kilo or a bound yield per hectare because we would have had 10 years to raise both production and self-sufficiency and create as much competitive agricultural production as possible. The new incentives, unfortunately, are no longer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37419	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go. Oh, no, that's for. Okay. Thank you. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37420	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I have to correct Mrs. Pusic, who, at the very beginning of her presentation, told Minister Shuker that the presentation of Minister Suker was at the level of escrow remarks in transferring responsibility to another former government. Not colleague Pusic. The minister was just a whole series of data that you probably didn't hear, and it was about the pensions that were originally made in 2004, it was out for 22 billion kuna pensions, and in 2009. 29. In 2004 some 13 million kunas were released for health care, billions of dollars, and I'm sorry, I wrote down 22 billion kunas in 2009. In 2004, 22 billion kunas were allocated for salaries, and now 30 billion kunas stand out. That's what Mr. Shuker said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37421	Thank you. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37422	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is representative Pusic said on behalf of her club that it is a serious situation and that she will debate seriously. However, Mrs. Pusic, you said in your debate either out of ignorance or out of your insecureness when you said one incorrect part, which is that the state singles out thousands and thousands of kunas for hectares and hectares of pastures. That's not true. The Croatian state is giving incentives in agriculture to processed areas, certain agricultural cultures and certain crops in fruit growing. If you do not know that, I ask you to contact Minister Cobankovic, he will explain everything to you, but it is also one message since you have run for president of the state which I do not think Croatia will experience. You said it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37423	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37424	There's another attack on Croatian peasants. Again, you insist against Croatian peasants, and that is why you will not win the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37425	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37426	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the government is incompetent, but calling for these new elections, I think the public has the right to know how Mr. Cacic would handle it by calling for new elections, and he says that he would radically reduce costs, throw out the thieving and incompetence by completely stopping incompetent and criminally contracted investments. Cacic says to cancel all the contracts and put them under the investigation of USKOK, because, behold, miracles, it would save no less than 5 billion kuna. We wonder if he forgot to say that it might be best to assign all the jobs to his companies as in the good old days. It targets right where he did the most crime and did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37427	Thank you. Don't claim anything, because this isn't a court, so give your opinion. Here you go. ... This applies to all those claims and rulings made in advance. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the Assembly, a place in the courtroom. Now I give my word on behalf of the government. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37428	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring to article 209 and I'm not going to correct what people have been saying. I'm just warning that instead of correcting incorrect allegations, 90% of what the HDZ colleagues were saying was about expressions of impatience, antipathies to what I was saying. Which I accept. But I don't think that's why the Institute doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37429	Well, I'll agree with you. It would just be good if you had picked up the same plate earlier, when some others were saying it, and they hadn't corrected the incorrect assumption. Here. So we agreed. Let's not do that. But look to the left and the right. Not just this one. On behalf of the government, Mr. Finance Minister Ivan Schuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37430	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will try seriously as Mrs Pusic puts it, to answer some proposals from the HNS club. Because every proposal is welcome no matter where it comes from. Especially at times like this, but when we propose then we should put ourselves in the context of what we're talking about. So let's first talk about budgets, budget revenues and budget expenditures. And then we can talk about both public enterprises and everything. Because public companies are not present in this budget. No, they're not. But look, it creates a big mix-up with Croatian citizens. Because when you say it's in HEP, which I know, it's gone that much and so much, and you're talking about the budget, then it's thought to be budget money. But one elemental question is raised. The dividend tax was in the Republic of Croatia. Whether every investment, every investment is worth gold, should seek to attract capital or tell that capital about this topic, you are not welcome in Croatia. But it's a subject that can be discussed. We can make a round table and discuss it. But you'll also let me, don't tell me now I'll be back at some point. Just in order to defend certain things and attitudes, you have to combine certain data. So I'll tell you how much profit tax revenue was at the time when Croatia had a profit tax rate of 25% and 20% on dividends. There was one 2.5 billion to 3 billion kuna somewhere. When we abolished the dividend, reduced the profit tax rate to 20%, that income jumped to nine billion kuna. One part is both the consequences and the increased economic activities. But I'm saying, a topic we can discuss that has both pro and vice versa. But when we talk about stopping employment. Then let's look at how we behave in power at all levels from locals and beyond. I think that in Croatia it is unremembered that the Director of the Puski University has a manager's contract if he accidentally gets fired, has the right to 12 salaries, as is the case in Velika Gorica, employed on your party line. I'm just saying one little example. The second thing, about the liability of borrowing, etc. Take a look at the budget findings of the Varazdin County and nothing else. Or how statistical things can be shown. Look at your colleagues and colleagues. I never said that the situation in Croatia is great, etc. but also as I stand as I stand before anyone, I will fight with every argument to prove that Croatia is not on its knees, because it is not on its knees. The nominal deficit in 2003 was higher than today's nominal. It's my people's nominals. But then the deficit was 10, 11 billion kunas to 80 billion budgets. And that's not why I've never done it, and I've been that parliamentary agent. Here, my colleague Vidovic was a minister, colleague or Mrs Anticevic, I never discussed it that way. All right, Minister then. But look. You can't tell me I'm really sorry to have to read this. I'm really sorry. But knowing how it's going to be, we just have to go back in time. 'Cause look, if that wasn't good then, it's not good today and it's never gonna be good. Bad is always bad, no matter who does it. See the decision of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Highways of 3 November 2003. And before that, an agreement with the IMF was signed saying that works in road construction would decrease by 3% of gross domestic products. That was about 600, 700 million. Look, the financial plan is increasing by a billion, 200 million. But look at the very interesting explanation. Veli, payment for part of the total expenditure of one billion and 121 million, will be transferred and implemented in 2004. So what is it? It's a deficit fixation. If he was 10 or 11 billion, he took this billion, because then the HAC was part of the state budget. Or let's say what was done through HBOR. a complete renovation in 2002, 2003, how was it formed? By contract. And ladies and gentlemen, this is all I'm saying, I'm talking with full responsibility, and you can check everything out. So it wouldn't work out. So I take responsibility if you think I said something wrong. So the contract concluded a contract between the ministry at that time to rebuild the HBOR, with a billion and 500 million loan renewals to be concluded with contractors. And the state issued bonds that she would repay those loans. And you know why? I'm not even gonna say that someone tried to crush it. I'm asking you nicely to put it aside. Why? That these billions and 500, which were allocated 500, 600 million in three years, were not shown as deficits in 2003. And as I claimed it wasn't good at the time, so all these six years as a minister I've been trying to make sure it wasn't there. It's that simple what's in the budget is in the budget. Everything that was in these accounts was. Now let me tell you, to get back from this history, but I had to say this. Because you're always accusing me. To go back from history to today. You have short-term measures that must yield results in a very short time. You have long-term measures, and Mrs. President said something about them. We will sit with our coalition partners in the next month, month and a half, all these measures will be discussed and put as a platform for the adoption of the 2010 budget. We'll put them on as a platform. And again with short and long-term measures. And it's not pleasant for anyone to suggest new taxes. It's not pleasant for anyone. It's not pleasant to tell anyone that someone's getting a lower salary. But another question arises. We have served our obligations neatly over the past seven months, no matter what anyone said, however, there was no delay from the budget. With this budget rebalance, which has gone unfortunately in one other direction, because there was simply no possibility of an agreement with the social partners, we are in a position to finance our commitments by the end of the year and we are in a position that the next year when the deficit falls by some 4.5.6 billion kuna we will also be able to finance 20th and some billionths, almost 30 commitments coming from previous years and finance that 4 billion deficit. So that was the intention and purpose of that first and second rebalancing. I understand the political rhetoric of the opposition, and also give you the right to say what we believe is true. It's another thing. I'm a man of numbers and the economy is an exact science. There's no impression. It may be an impression for a while, but it breaks your head very quickly. So any measure of yours that you're defining is going to be considered and we can talk about it. What a fund it is in HABOR. How come the money's in that fund, because if you're setting up a fund, you have to give him the money. Where'd you get the money? No, look. You have the option now, but you need to know when you look at the financial power in the Croatian company and private as much as you can get hundreds of millions of euros. Then they'd be disappointed that it was a small amount, which has free resources. However, we have provided HABOR with around 500m euros of funds in these 7 months, which, under very favourable conditions, gives small and medium-sized enterprises. Very favourable conditions, and our intention is by the end of the year 200 million to secure HABOR, because this is the best guarantee for those projects we have in fishing, agriculture, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and tourism that these entrepreneurs will receive loans between 2% and 6% of the interest, depending on who this is going to be. But those low interest rates are not free either. Someone's got to pay them. And if you take a closer look at the position of the Ministry of Finance, then you'll see that you have 290 million kuna for that particular purpose. But in this fund, let's see where the money came from. Another thing: growth in wages and productivity. Unfortunately, we have a downturn in economic activities that, given how much growth was in 2008, even below the level of 2007, but our pensions are 4 and a half billion, salaries for 2 billion and 200 more than in 2007. And the basic problem and why all we're doing is that our incomes are now below the level of 2007 and especially because our consumer taxes have fallen, and our expenditures are higher by about 11 billion. And that's our truth. And I repeat, the same story you told at the rebalance at the 4th month, but the answer of international financial institutions, and the best answer and confirmation, Mr. Vice President, please one more sentence, is the successful issue of bonds in the 5th month. Successful bond release in the fifth month. And that's the best confirmation of what we've done in the first five months. And someone can argue with it one way or another. Croatia, however, issued 750m euros in bonds at an interest rate that was very favourable at the time. I know there's going to be a lot of objections today, but there will be opportunities, but I'd like to ask you nicely to give a specific one to whom to cut, so that we can talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37431	Three corrections. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37432	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect allegations of the minister who said, and here I would agree with Mrs Pusic if the minister said there were no state-owned companies in the budget, and that is what it is. But there's something called income from these companies, which is recorded in the budget. And unfortunately, today in Croatia, we have a great effect from our companies, which among the first 100 largest in Croatia, make up as much as 75 billion revenue that they make. There's no profit at all. Now I'm just going to read some of these companies where the state is a majority owner and has its management rights on the board, what are the results for the past year. INA minus billion, HEP minus 14 million, HPT Croatia post office minus 200 million, shipyard not to speak one minus 500, second minus 300. Everywhere the state is a majority owner, and if these companies are better and more efficient, it could, of course, pay dividends and certain money into the state budget. There is no such thing, and I agree with Mrs Pusic that it is the failure of this government, because in these companies there is corruption, unhappiness and non-transparentity, and it should be changed and there we could find the money that is missing, and not to take Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37433	Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Two allegations I'd like to correct. One, the minister said that some measures that are bad in one situation are always bad. It's not like that, of course. Some measures are appropriate to the crisis situation, and in a peaceful or non-crisis situation they are not appropriate. Taxing dividends is a typical example. Another incorrect allegation, if I may assume it, was that Minister Schuker was confused when he said he was quoting and talking about the report on the financial operations of the HAC for 2003. I guess he was going to say about 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37435	And Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37436	Mr. Minister, it is incorrectly selective to point out, selectively use statistics and selectively interpret numbers, because this leads to the wrong conclusion and inaccuracy. You didn't mention not to mention HAC and the whole story, because it would take too much time. You didn't mention that in 2000, but when you want to go back into history, state-owned companies so the Republic of Croatia generated a loss of 12 billion kuna. In 2004, you inherited companies that were in plus 8 billion kuna, 8 billion kuna, Mr. Minister, if you don't remember that, that's true. So please, when you're already talking, when you're calling for the past, say the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37437	SDSS representative club Mr. Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37438	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Sometimes the best thing a person can do for himself or for another person or for a job at all is to say that things really stand, to bring out the facts, and thus to take the first step with those who work, and to share in the first step the greatest part of the responsibility that needs to be done. This first step we still have to do when it comes to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to public finances, when it comes to the budget and when it is generally fiscal policy in the Republic of Croatia. We have such a condition right now, of course I'm not the one who can do it, nor do I have the authority to do it. But from this point on, I want to say that it seems to me that we're about to be on a ship that's overcrowded, on a ship whose cargo is so overrun, and the engines that the ship's getting bigger and stop and are getting weaker and weaker. We are actually in a situation where we have to decide whether to take measures to get to the first port ourselves or if we call someone on the side as a rescue service. We have opted for this first coalition government, bring the ship to port and allow a thorough remont because it is fair to the present state in Croatia, because it is the first thing that a man must do with a sense of responsibility to do the job he is entrusted with and which of the voters he has received. Now, as far as we are concerned at the SDSS Club, we think that some of the measures taken by the Prime Minister and the Government today have come up with the necessary measures to be taken to reduce and stop and postpone investments, with regard to cost cuts and general savings at all levels within the state, with regard to the control of public procurement and the prohibition of contract annexes in areas of public procurement in particular in certain sectors. We also think that it was necessary in these circumstances to introduce a temporary VAT rate increase by one index point in order to increase income regardless of how the minister warns about how we record a VAT-based revenue drop, but since it is actually the most dominant form of income in the budget he is somewhere over 60% of the total income we do not have another way at this time, introducing a luxury tax. Now, what we haven't found common ground either in the ruling coalition is still and I hope we find agreement by the end of the week, because if we don't find it then that figure of mine from the beginning of the speech that we ourselves should bring the ship to port and put it in a state that can access a thorough remont I'm not sure we'll be able to do it. And what I think is necessary for us to do here has already been mentioned by some who have spoken including Dr Pusic is next. We can no longer delay the introduction of the property tax, we cannot delay or we cannot remain in the dilemma whether or not we will introduce a dividend tax. I wish the minister were right that our situation in the economy is in general such that the amount of taxes is something that is specific whether people are going to invest in us or not. But it's not. Mr Minister, relevant international organisations show that the tax level is only 11. in order that determines whether someone will come to invest in a country or not. Before that, there is much more important including the level of corruption, including reliability and quality of infrastructure, including the ease of business, including a stable social political environment. It's our responsibility. We resort to the tax as a necessary measure because right now we are in such a state of necessity. And the same goes for the possibility of taxing extra profits where there's some where there's conjecture for it. As far as pensions and salaries are concerned, and to conclude this property tax, dividend tax, capital tax, that is the position that the SDSS Club will defend as a condition for the realisation of this rebalancing, because we think there are still significant potentials for your job as Mr. Minister and your minister and the business of the coalition government to make it safer, that's one thing. And secondly, the people in this country want a shared burden. And now I'm going to come to where I don't think the burden is divided. If we have decided to sort of distribute the burden of wages and pensions so that the burden is not only borne by those who are beneficiaries of the budget money but also by those who work in private companies, well. And if that's accepted by many social partners, then given the state of our budget and budget deficits, it's perfectly natural that people will say if we have to give who we live by work, who we contribute by our work and who have nothing but our 40,000 kuna to pay credit to either the car or the apartment and feed three children. What about those who in the last 15 years have acquired wealth in conditions that have not been mildly transparent. Isn't it right that they too, through their profits, whether it's capital gains, whether it's property, whether it's dividends, share the burden of what we all have to share? It's a social mechanism, Mr. Minister, which makes us do it and I from this pay phone on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, I would like to say that we must take care of the working-dependence population. It must be taken care of by people who have been brought not by their own fault into the state in which they were brought. And I also think that you should think not only about it, but you need to find ways to get people who are going to take what some colleagues call a duress, some hacker, so by this rescue measure, if they're going to take 2% or 4% of their pension or their net salary, you need to see that in times that will be better, which I believe will come in time, in a year or two, you need to see how and how these people are guaranteed a) that in those times the funds will be invested in development and jobs and b), which I think is particularly important, when that development starts to bring profits, including profits to the state, that then some kind of fund will be established that those people will have the ability to take what the state takes back in some way. I'm aware of the risk of what I'm saying, but I'm also aware of the risks if we take these measures, and we show social insensibility, I'm aware of what can happen to us on the way to that first port where I need to make a remont. And that is why I call on coalition partners to continue to consider these two important mechanisms by Friday. One is the issue of property tax, capital gains, dividends and other issues of the future of this money that will be taken from next week and next year, perhaps longer, if the situation takes longer and we find one way for people to feel that we are making decisions where we are evenly deploying the burden as much as possible, without suffocating economic activities while also showing the need for a minimum of social sensitivity. Ladies and gentlemen, after the privatisation has been carried out with these measures if we do not show minimal social sensitivity in the way that we still seem to be able to say this is the second time that we are taken, and we have no guarantee that it will benefit the state nor will it benefit ours. I think that the kind of attitude that exists in the public, which is not minority, we have to change if we want to turn this rebalancing into a first step, a first resort, as you say, Mr. Minister, so we can start a thorough reform. As for the thorough reforms, that before that, I am not sure whether the budget savings were the best and most thoroughly reviewed. I come from one of the Croatian universities and I know how much it takes when it comes to supporting the work of the university. Is it really necessary that in this year five universities or four universities need 7 or 8 million kuna for official travel? And I don't see why, say, the University of Rijeka only needs 900 thousand kuna, and the University of Osijek needs almost 3 million kuna for official travel. If we're saving on all sides, then we're going to save everyone and everywhere. I may speak insufficiently of the facts in which people are found, but I have taken a few examples. Similarly, it could be found at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and could be found in some of the items of the Ministry of Science and Education. I plead, colleagues and colleagues, to call once again the ministers to see if there is room for savings. As for the measures to be taken immediately after this rebalancing is adopted, there is no doubt that pension reform is necessary in Croatia. Stop the inflow of pensioners on the one hand and those who are now in retirement status give them a chance to get back to work, especially those who are younger. There is also no doubt, as some have already pointed out, that such a massive, inefficient and expensive network of units of local self-government and regional self-government can absolutely not be supported by the state in the way it has been supported so far. And thirdly, there is no doubt that a medium-term investment attraction strategy, as an assumption of development and as a presumption of job creation, must be designed. We can laugh at the president of the state or at the expense of potential presidential candidates, but where there's money, we should look for it. Where there's no money, there's nothing to look for. Therefore, it is necessary to look for a partner on various sides, to look for partners where money is more favourable and not to be a slave to some matrix as we have been in the last few years, regardless of what is our primary goal and what is our basic foreign policy orientation. For this reason, I expect that in the next few days, we will consider, consider and agree on some other solutions to strengthen both the revenue and the expenditure side of this budget and until Friday, we will have full measures that I think will be sufficient to then approach the preparation for these thorough measures in the autumn, or to build on a remont of what we are sailing in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37439	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37440	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. They say one of the heaviest Jewish curses "he had God, so he didn't." Is there an analogy to what is happening in the Republic of Croatia today? Can a parallel or a comparison be withdrawn in connection with those curses? First of all, I would factor out the first part, which is that God would have. So did we have it or didn't we? Or did we live on, say, someone else's credit account, loans from banks owned by 77% foreigners and 3% on domestic property? And now that the creator or creators or better say the creator of what is now in order, which is actually someone can say that we are ahead of bankruptcy, or that there would be no bankruptcy of the state, bankruptcy of the state or actually debt slavery of the state, and actually something even worse, which is spiritual slavery of the people, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'll explain later. So, the creator of it all today gave us a nice little vitre and went sailing with a salary that follows him legally, but whether it's moral or not, I wouldn't say. What's worse, sails with Little Vitre on the Adriatic Sea, and on the yacht of one of our Slavon or the Pannonian sailor, who we also know has come to his property. Now, when we talk about debt slavery, it is quite clear that it was created at the time of the criminal privatisation that was created immediately after the war or in the war, that debt slavery was created by various corruption and criminal affairs, that it was based on it, on which it rests, that it was created, as someone said, by irresponsible behaviour in the economy or irresponsible management, as Mrs Pusic said, but actually I would rather and easier shorten it if it were one corruption or crime, however you will, without any environment. So we brought the Republic of Croatia, its public enterprises before I say, into a difficult, difficult situation. What happens to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is that spiritual slavery came from the regulation and rules of the neoliberal most black capitalism that we have taken over and tried to apply to Croatia as some kind of Croatian model, which actually does not exist. So, materialism, desire to get rich without work, role models in such jet sets, selebrites, those who get in gambling, etc., who drive expensive jeeps, etc. became one of the spiritual obsessions of the Croatian people. We lost the values we had before the war and brought with us into war and had them in the war, we lost the unity of the Croatian people, we lost mutual trust between the layers of the Croatian people that someone once called stand-ups or gangs to translate, so there was a mutual mistrust of everyone in everything. It's even worse to me than to say recession, financial crisis, whatever you want to call it. When did the sun come, in fact, of the Croatian economy, of Croatian economic policy? In the 21st century, so somewhere in 2003, when there was an inauguration of the power of Mr. Prime Minister who knew his speeches ended up with his right hand tightly clenched, and then it turned out that there was a soap bubble in it, and it broke, and now the soap falls on our backs. So that year, there was an act of unsuspecting or hiring in government services, public services, ideological like-minded people, people who don't create any new values, and when you compare the number of employees in these services then and today you see a huge difference and an increase of almost 40 or 50%. Furthermore, in the same policy or policy, spending, credit consumption, has been forced. She spent the state, loans were up, economics, banks, citizens, we're all in charge. So in that, I was just talking about debt slavery, which is exactly what we're getting at right now. Unfortunately, it did not benefit production because by importing, import lobby, we actually smashed all that money and spent on buying what was from imports. Cars are from imports, we don't have domestic car factories, and I don't want to talk any further, everybody knows that. So it's not our internal crisis that results from the recession, except for the recession in global external frameworks or the result of some external factors. Our internal crisis is the result of the ideologies of society and what I just said, excessive employment so people who do not create new values and excessive consumption. We have now introduced, as we would say in Bosnia, an imposition on a villa in the form of taxes, a crisis tax and an increase in VAT. What does that mean? It's a move that doesn't bring, maybe in the short term, but on some mid-term almost nothing. Which is a stimulant for what we don't have, i.e. New production? Well, stimulant is consumption. And what do we do with the increase, that is, these measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is, which will it bring? We weaken the purchasing power of Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens. So we're reducing consumption, and then we're reducing production because there's no stimulant to produce. And then and that thin branch that produces something, a thin part of the Croatian economy, slowly we drink that branch. What it's going to lead to, it's quite clear. We already have about 43 billion euros in debt, we need 7 to 10 billion to say infusion capital, to urgently stop these crisis moments, and the government is actually dealing with cosmetics these measures, where they cut down some consumption, instead of doing something that can bring far more to Croatian citizens, which is far more helpful to this country. They're not rebalancing measures, as they say every week, rebalance one. They are not the rebalancing measures of either, neither the first nor the second, nor the third to save the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Rebalance is exclusively, it should be for the citizens. Let me say that anyone who says it's not some big blow, or it's protected by the poor, etc., try to take anyone out of the pocket of any kuna, and you'll see that it's not a blow. The worst is they say slapping in the pocket, and here we slap, as someone said, a large number of our citizens. And now that this new or old government, I think it's the Government of Continuity, which are the new faces in general in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, except one, are two? It's the government of the continuity of Eve Sanader, our sailor from the Adriatic waves. So this government is proud and should take positive elements from the government's programme and reject them negatively. So can someone who was the first assistant reject what was negative? Hardly. They say it's a positive NATO pact. And where is the European Union promised? She's gone. Now why isn't she here? And it's not just about Slovenia or any other stuff. The common denominator for countries entering the European Union and joining the European Union is the rational use of national resources. In fact, this was not the case in Croatia, and therefore I can argue and say that integration into the European Union lies on the false bases of this main principle, and the Croatian Government did not stick to it, and that is, I repeat, the rational use of national resources. What's next? We'll take 4%, then 5%, then 10%, and then we'll lose the car because the banks will lift our cars, because we won't be able to repay the loans. Next after summer, probably depression, followed in January, may be chaos. At that time, it is predicted that the European Union from journals available to economists will also enter into the most difficult and worst period of recession crisis. How will Croatia be then at the time of the beginning of 2010? The HDSSB or the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja have thought about all of this, brought its programme, the party's programme, the only party of parliamentary origin in the 21st century, so our party has brought its programme against the destabilising of society and state. We believe that Slavonia and Baranja are just the basis of Croatian society and state because of the concentration of the agricultural and food industry which can only bring profit to the Croatian state. Without creating a new value and profit, we can cut our budgets with rebalancing however we want, but we have to create new values. I was talking about the resources both the World Bank and the European Bank and everyone else declared, so economic resources number one, two and three, food, water, drink. ... Food, water, energy. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's fine. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's exactly what we suggested to our amendments when we asked for 400 million kunas for Slavonia and Slavonian peasants, and peasants in general, where's the luck of having the brains to invest in this industry and find a billion-and-a-half kuna, and then in three to five years, the Republic of Croatia would get on its feet and have something to make money on, where it could have profit. However, they have all closed themselves in their circles, non-precious circus meos, if you say don't touch my circles, so don't touch my Istria, don't touch Dalmatia, don't touch my Zagreb, don't touch my islands. There's no circle around Slavonia, and unfortunately here's how it goes, millions of residents who live there. Gentlemen, there is a need to reconstitute Croatian society and state and relations in the Republic of Croatia, and this means a new concept of economic development, to analyse the situation of workers and to change, should be given a regional priority where profits are made, and I spoke about this earlier, and should be re-constructed to review the privatisation and conversion that was made there sometime after the war. Without that, there is no progress in the Republic of Croatia, and believe me, no matter what someone here is scaring us with the International Monetary Fund, it is already too late, in February we should have knocked on the IMF door for 3 billion euros, and now if we did, we would have to ask 10 billion euros from that same organisation. It's not that bogeyman, it's something that will be very likely in a very soon time, and it's a hot fall to be needed. Since it's red, I won't elaborate anymore, but I think it's all clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37441	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to answer that. I wanted to correct someone who doesn't understand this matter, but I have to correct the incorrect allegations of colleagues who said that European integration lies on a false basis and that it is reportedly an obstacle to our European integrations, the irrational management of resources. So that doesn't exactly fit the truth. The truth is next. At this moment, the Republic of Croatia is the only EU country that is blocking it in 9 negotiating chapters for opening and in 5 closing is the Republic of Slovenia. So there's no other obstacle right now regarding these chapters. There are two other chapters, the Market Competition where we have met the final criterion with the publication of competitions for shipyards that have been spoken about a lot in public lately and the chapter of the judiciary where the question of "topnic diaries" is raised. So there are no other grounds why Croatia would stop. Thus, it is completely untrue that colleagues, Grubisic, say, when you talk about the European Union, at least get to know the basic facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37443	Ms. Representative, Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37444	Thank you very much. counterpart Grubisic is usually contradictory in his statements. I'll try to correct a few of his allegations. You told your colleague that the government had taken cosmetic measures "to reduce consumption". That's incorrect. It is incorrect because the government has brought and found funds to help the economy through a workless Friday, or a week's cut, which has introduced a luxury tax, which has introduced a mobile phone tax and what the Prime Minister has announced, a recent audit of all agencies, offices in the state. And as a recent meeting with the presidents of public enterprises, which must be adopted by an action plan to reduce liquidity. And a colleague just to teach you when I can't fix it. The right hand of the right hand is a tautology, and I don't know where you see the right hand of the left hand that you tend to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37445	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37446	Mr. Vice President. This is an article 209, right? This is a pure replica. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37447	No, it's not. It's a clean correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37448	No, I don't. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37449	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37450	Well, here's what I can do to correct my colleague, so I have to quote him. Well, my colleague says so. "The common denominator of entering the European Union is the rational use of national resources." Well, whatever that means. That's right. Neither Bulgaria nor Romania would be in the European Union. But precisely because of the rational use of national resources, primarily seas and submarines, Croatia is blocked when entering the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37451	And Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37452	Namely, I would like to correct a colleague, who said that only Croatian agriculture can bring profits to the Republic of Croatia. In fact, I agree with you that there is a need to strengthen and invest and that Croatia's agriculture is extremely important. However, agriculture in the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia participates with only 6%. And in European Union countries between 1% and 2%. Something stronger is only with Greece. Therefore, if we are looking for profit and what will strengthen gross social product, then it is primarily the processing industry, then these are highly finished products in which value is added. And agriculture needs to be strengthened from other differences and among other things from sociological and social.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37453	Club of HSS Mr. Representative, Vice-President of the House Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37454	A fellow vice president, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me present on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasants' Party our views and our reflections regarding budget rebalancing. Although this is a point but the discussions that have been conducted and it is almost impossible to lead them under this point, if we do not look back at the whole package of documents that are proposed to be considered and adopted at this extraordinary session, because they are interrelated. And in fact, it is also a confirmation of the need to discuss again after a month after we have brought a budget rebalance under the law of possible solutions. What's a lot of talk about, what's been discussed here today, is a way of preparing. Surely some believe that the government should close down, prepare a package of measures and rebalancing and then take it out in the package. Both in front of the public and in front of the MPs. But the situation is complex and I am advocating it, and we, as well as the coalition partner, have acted this way, that in thinking, in talking, in looking for a solution, we include all those who think, evaluate the situation and offer certain solutions. It was about mutual discussions, agreements and co-ordination of coalition partners, social partners, professions and the public. Such a debate has shown that different solutions are offered, that different thinking is on the scene. And surely, from all of this it was meant to be designed to isolate what is now considered the most acceptable and to offer us here in the Parliament as a solution. And just a little bit to remind ourselves and let's talk about what the solutions were. A linear reduction of all expenditures has been offered. So when we analyzed it, and we talked about percentages up to 10 percent, then we saw that this would mean a new collapse of the health system, so that it would inevitably lead to the inability to pay off the rights achieved in the pension system, so that it would mean opening up space for new court processes for all those activities where collective agreements are concluded and where they are in force. And we saw that this would lead to a nightmare that would result more in court than through regulation and finding a solution to how to solve the global crisis in this country. The second thing that was said about what was taken into consideration was the question of investment relations and for sure and it is good that it is here today, but also through the documents that we read said investments are being expanded according to certain priorities when it comes to their completion because the investments when we look at them are on one side of the cost balance sheet, but when we look at them on the other side, these are the works carried out by our companies, they are jobs, they are employed in individual branches and not only in construction but also at all those who serve these branches. And I think, and we at the HSS support that, according to the possibilities, these investments need to be expanded and I believe that's how they're going to work. The following debates were even established by special expert teams, and it was stressed as one of the specific measures was the debate on whether to move towards the devaluation of the kuna or the skating of the course. Surely no one can dispute that a temporary solution would give room for better operations for exporters. But the truth is that one such measure, since we know the structure of duty in a similar situation or much more complex, would have brought most of our families to bear in mind, let us not forget, almost all of us have the obligation to pay in kunas related to courses, it was either in euro or in Swiss or in automation, all of them would be placed in one complex position in which and how to continue to repay and repay it. There have been discussions and suggestions discussed here today, whether or not the IMF. Surely no one disputes because simply these figures say that IMF placements at the interest rate are somewhat lower than those of other banking systems, but the truth is that so far these placements have come with measures no matter how we show them, whether we have self-awarely subsequently reduced our salaries and gave up collective contracts, whether we have taken our own will or not with less or more recommendations to sell what was most valuable in the country. And believe me, such measures would certainly be offered to us and now they offer because the state budget can be charged from tax and non-taxable income and from income from property. Fortunately, but also knowingly in this other source, we talk a little bit, although we know that on someone's recommendation or don't give God a condition of billions missing very quickly could move forward with the sale of Elektroprivreda, the sale of Post Office, the sale of state land, etc. But we have chosen at these moments not to do so, to keep it, we have entered into a coalition agreement and surely in this House, regardless of whether they are part of a coalition government or an opposition to these things, we have also agreed. And I think it's good to agree because with such a measure we might once be able to secure the funds but certainly not long-term funding and not the solution and solutions we're looking for. And we are left to see in parallel what is and where can be reduced on the bulky side of the budget and how to increase budget revenues by making sure that the burden of the crisis and as citizens as a whole is evenly borne according to our options. And that's why there's this package that's proposing an increase in assets on the revenue side. I was an advocate and we at the club to take part of the income by increasing VAT and today I claim here that this does not mean that they must immediately increase the price if we have responsible partners because they too have to set something up in their balance sheets and spending fees, because we just remember a little when oil went to 140 dollars barrel last year then it was the main reason for each week's justification why certain prices in certain sectors have to go up. When the world market oil went down and came to a third of the price, I did not read the return costs to which it was returned. So, I think there's space. What we're talking about because the most beautiful thing sounds like exactly the food sector, the diet, the bread of the world's most exposed if the tax is introduced, I also don't think it's justified because last year all the wheat per kuna and 50 or kuna 60 was bought out, now the buyers are guessing with the producers to pay 80, 90 lips in kuna, none of them will even talk. This is one-third lower price of the basic raw material. Therefore, if that price fell and there were times when they imported wheat of 2 kunas 40, then there is certainly room in the calculation and therefore there should not be an increase in price and not especially in certain automation and not everywhere. It is certain that by talking to each partner, we are removing what is said to be a threat to our standard now. What is positive in this rebalancing and what we read is an effort to reduce the difference between income and expenditure, because in this way we less burden the years that will come behind us when certain debts will need to be paid back, especially with high interest rates, and on the other hand the space and the release of some of the credit funds or discounts from the banking sector towards the economy opens up. And that's what we welcome, and we think that with one of those bases we can really do in the budget for next year to achieve that our deficit is about 1%, and then again, it creates a higher possibility of moving towards the economics sector, because without the economy, and within the budget, it's exactly according to the economy, a lot of it's being redeployed. Without new jobs, without new values to be created, it is certain that we will find solutions to how our budget balances close. The HSS Club will support this budget rebalance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37455	Thank you. Two corrections. One, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37456	Thank you. The inaccuracy of fellow Fristic is that this rebalancing predicted that citizens equally bear the burden of all that has come to this society. I note that a million and 500 thousand of our fellow citizens, of which 900 thousand pensioners and 600 thousand employees will be released because they have up to three thousand kunas of salary. But if you have three thousand and one kuna, you belong to those who will strike this measure, which means that someone of three thousand one kuna will be taken away from him 60 kunas, and someone who has a salary of 20 thousand kunas will be taken away from him 800 kunas. It's immeasurable, so much more burden is borne by the one of three thousand one kuna than this one of 20 grand. And the other thing, we've declared people who have three thousand 1 kunas to rich people, and that's what I really think... You didn't say that, but it comes from your discussion, from your thesis. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can close your eyes, but people know what hit them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37457	It's too lush a conclusion. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37458	Mr. Vice President. So here is my colleague Jurjevic who corrected the same assumption that I wanted to correct, so it is not true that the proposed changes will be evenly distributed to all Croatian citizens. This burden will again be borne by workers and pensioners. A million and 500 thousand Croatian citizens live on the verge of hunger. Therefore, this rebalancing will absolutely not mean that the citizens of Croatia will equally submit to the crisis that has led us to the government that is now trying to get us out of this crisis, but unfortunately completely unsuccessful.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37459	HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37460	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So economic history teaches us and shows us that the economy never grows balanced and without impasse. It teaches us, this economic history, that after several years, pleasant and cheerful years of expansion and growth and progress, as it usually happens after that, economic activity falls, up to recession, and rarely panic and breakdown. Then, under such conditions, gross domestic products are reduced and unemployment is rising, profits are falling, real incomes are falling, and thousands of people are out of work. Unfortunately, the famous years of major economic crises from the 1720s and 1930s were repeated last year. So Croatia, as well as the whole world, has been affected by recession, the global financial crisis has also come into the Croatian economy. It is not surprising, therefore, that in the first quarter of this year, gross domestic product fell 6.7%, and in the first half of this year industrial production dropped by 10.2% and trade to little 17%, the goods imports achieved a 25.5% decline. All these macroeconomic indicators suggest that the real GDP reduction in 2009 will at best be 4.5%. The proposed third rebalance plans to increase revenues by €1111.2 billion and €12.5 billion in 2009 and a total reduction in expenditures of €120.5 billion in total from three rebalances and expenditures is now €6.5 billion. This rebalancing forecasts a reduction in the government budget deficit by a billion and 600 million kuna, i.e. from 10.97%, 97 to 9.3 so that the deficit will be 2.8%, which is 0.5% less than previously planned. In addition to the recession, in addition to the financial crisis it has affected, Croatia is also in serious structural problems, so I would only emphasise the excessive domination of the banking and telecommunications sectors with an extremely high rate of profitability, insufficient competition in certain branches, the dominant role of individual corporations with the characteristics of monopolistic positions, the dominant role of trade in overall economic activity, the excessive share of imports in the total consumption of food, the inexplicability of demand for loans, but also the unfavourable ratio of the number of pensioners and the total number of employees. Very often we have been reading and listening lately, the question is, who saved Croatia from bankruptcy? Who saved the financial system? Who secured the financial stability? Many of these are their own, but I would only point out that the Republic of Croatia has long paid a large price for today's banking security through the resolution of the banks, by seizing out 94 billion kuna, that the biggest contribution to the stability of the financial system is to increase the savings stakes from 100 thousand kuna to 400 thousand kuna and since the double amount that has been provided, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, rather than having the ability to double that amount of the insurance premium, it is even down to 0.4% from 0.5%, which is another additional contribution and which nobody points out today, and this is worth noting that this is precisely the government's biggest contribution, i.e. the State Insurance Agency for Savings and Rehabitation of Banks for today's banking and financial stability of the Republic of Croatia. In this recession, given that the objectives of macroeconomic policy are to increase production, maintain employment rates and maintain price stability in recession, it has been shown that of these three important objectives, that we have achieved price stability, that it is good that we have also achieved exchange rate stability, but that the increase is unemployment and that the decline is a gross social product. When it comes to the rise in unemployment, it is partly caused by the current financial crisis, but also by the speculation of certain employers using this situation to fire workers. So I'd just like to mention that the economics of Okun's law says that 2% of gross domestic product falls causes 1% of unemployment growth. And given how much the ratio of gross domestic product decline and the rise in unemployment, it is obvious that in Croatia this Okun law is not literally applied, that these relations are consistent, i.e. employers took advantage of the opportunity and fired workers when it is not necessary and when they make huge profits. But it is no doubt that entrepreneurship is a generator of economic activity, a generator of economic progress. However, that there is an encouraging framework for entrepreneurship in Croatia, it best shows that in 2008, the profit of nearly 50 billion kuna was achieved. This is an indicator of how stimulating the environment is for economic activity, and 1068 Mediterranean islands, our coast, agricultural and tourism potential, the wealth of drinking water and forests, but also the great human potential of the Republic of Croatia should be a guarantee for a more certain future in Croatia. And there's room for a step. This rebalancing creates serious assumptions for the 2010 budget. We also have space because we have the potential to produce food enough to feed 4.5 million people. We also have the potential for more efficient tourism activity, there is also room for more efficient management of state and public enterprises. We have potential and to build a competitive ship, we have state property that can be more efficient mobilized, we have the possibility of introducing... Financial disciplines, we also have a communal fee as one form of property tax, but that property tax is now applied to squares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of thinking about it, there is room for the introduction of property tax on the value of the property. We have space and instruments to reduce interest rates and encourage housing lending, to encourage credit ratings in production, but it is in the hands of monetary policy as a domain of selective access and certainly there are instruments for such. So we have one unresolved, for 19 years the issue of the debt of the Ljubljanska banka, i.e. the branch of Zagreb, which is not a matter of succession when cash was transported to trucks in Ljubljana in the 1990s, and the branch of Zagreb joined the centre in Ljubljana. Today, with interest, that claim exceeds nearly 3 billion euros. It is often heard and whether we need the International Monetary Fund. Professor Pupovac said earlier that he was prone, that for that option we would continue to steer our own ship. Well, since the economic future is in our hands, it's not written in our stars because it's not predicted, it's created. We certainly support that attitude. The HDZ club is for us to continue to steer because we can corrugated and we can make Croatia a state of wealth, as a state of wealth, not a rich country. Therefore, the HDZ club supports these changes and additions to the 2009 State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37461	Thank you. The HSLS and HSU Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37462	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the 10 years I have not missed a single budget and rebalancing, and in all these 10 years, I could count at least 10 basic Croatian delusions and us here and the delusions we carry as an obsession with our citizens, for at least one year at a time. However, if I don't get all this taxing, I'm going to try to say all of what I've been saying for all these 10 years, which, in my personal opinion, is quite safe and the root of today's crisis, regardless of what the global crisis is. Surely that's not the reason, it's not the source of this crisis, but if we had cleared ourselves of these delusions in time, we would have welcomed it more ready and we would have been more self-adjustable as a society than we are today. First of all, the first delusion and the first difficulty we face is the fact that all these 10 years we spend more than we do, we use the state budget more to break the money, than to invest in as a cover of development and to make us more hurt. Unfortunately, when you look at the recent year, it brings a slight balance, and the minister said well about it that we came with the deficit to the lowest level, and unfortunately this crisis made us rise again, we'll see that in fact all these 10 years we've spent more than we should have, that we've spent and what we've created, but also what we've created generations as national goods, as a national wealth, and that we've really been, really, I've said it more times in the Parliament, we've acted as an age and a fugitive, that we've enjoyed what we have and what we can spend and eat, over what we can't spend and eat. And it has nothing to do with the left or right government, it has simply to do with our mentality, our way of budgeting, and our expectations of what we really want to do with the budget, which are development programs and projects, which we finance from the budget. How have we compensated for this deficit, that surplus, that income deficit, and on the other hand, the surplus of expenditure? Either loans, or from the price of the service of citizens, whether it's a tax like today, or it's 1.20 per litre of oil derivatives, or it's in a third way. It's either a fiscal imposition or a parafiscal imposition. And not just that. But so did our wild, metastasised local and regional administration, for which there is no excuse, has still imposed at least 30 different local duties on entrepreneurs and citizens. Recently, HUP tried to count all of this and systematically present to the citizens the finance minister. And we've actually come to the point that what we're talking about today is the least that we're burdening the citizens. If we could finally rationalise consumption, public consumption not only of the central state, then we'd see that there's a lot of room for savings. And that's why HSLS and I personally advocate rationalizing the administration, because these three levels of states, county, municipalities, cities, it doesn't make any sense for a country our size. It doesn't make any sense, it's just an increase in fiscal and parafiscal burdens. It's an invention of the giving and the dwarves incessantly. That's one way we compensated for the lack of income. The second is, of course, the sale of everything we've sold out. And there's still no connection that the government is concerned about. In the past 10 years, it has been like selling out family silver and what might have been to be sold out, because the state has mismanaged and what we shouldn't have sold. I'll give you an example of a country that I was lucky to visit, which came to the world media and to the world public as an example of citizens making fun of Borat's film, that's Kazakhstan. It is a country that has not allowed natural resources, concessions, banks, the energy system and any other system that is of state interest to anyone, anyone to become the owner of more than 25 plus 1%, or if they want to invest then can invest exclusively in cooperation with the state fund, the National Fund of Kazakhstan. Everyone laughed at that country for a while, but the country also showed us that there are things that are simply not sold at any price. The third of course is the privatisation that went again, we all know how, and in the 10 years, not only there in the '90s, and these were the ways that we spent and what we didn't do. We spent it that way actually that we ate our own substance. And today we're eating our own substance, but we're aware that it's getting poorer and thinner and that our appetites are bigger, but because of that, it's what's going to make our hunger sadder than that substance thinner and thinner. But to put that aside, because somehow we've been able to replace that imbalance and unbalanced income and expenditure, let's see who's actually doing it today. It accounts for about 1 and a half million less labourable or employees on 1.1 million pensioners or other rightholders, so around 1.4 of the employee comes from a retired citizen of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear to all of us that, with such a proportion of the working population, we simply can't do it now that we ate our own substance, when we got rid of everything that was worth it, in terms of national heritage, economic and each other, that we actually can't take it anymore in the budget. With depopulation demographic trends, it'll be even worse. With the ageing population. Therefore, it is impossible in this country that a retired citizen is coming to 1.4 employees, and yet this is not just the consequences, even at least this government. Retired, we all know how and how. So today we don't have enough power in our hands, metaphorically speaking, the working-age population doesn't have enough power in our hands and on our spines to bear all the costs and burdens of the state budget. But let's go see what we've been spending all these 10 years on. Have we ever said in Croatia what our national priorities are? I really think that the purpose of this today is not only to rebalance, but also to re-evaluate, in terms of revaluation of what we need to do in Croatia. We just need a different system of social values. With the rebalancing, we have to re-evaluate. We must finally say who will be the bearers of the development of this society. We spent on major infrastructure projects. We agree that's what we should have spent it on. But let's look at for example in these ten years, which we're only proud of. On the highway, it's as if the highway is something other countries can't build, I can't finance, they don't know the model of funding. It's like it's the biggest economic value in itself. This is the lady and gentlemen of the map of the Republic of Ireland, which in all these 10 years as far as I am in the Parliament is constantly being highlighted as an example. Look at Ireland's poorest, most backward country in Europe. She had the biggest GDP growth in 10 years, the biggest growth in citizens' standards, the biggest investments. Do you know how many miles of highway Ireland has? Less than 200. This is your ticket, a little from Dublin to Limerico and some of the cities. But that's why Ireland has more income than tourism from Croatia. But that's why Ireland invested in describing the peasant population, in staying people in villages, in agriculture and in education. Ireland has come from a country as unfavourable as Croatia, more than 40% of its citizens with a primary school within 10 years from the population in the educational structure that is at the European summit. They did not invest in now I will say open, suspicious highway projects such as Zagreb-Sisak, because no one can explain to me where this highway will lead further. So let my Joza not be offended by Zagreb-Koprivnica. I'm not against it. I'm not against being misunderstood by someone who's wrongly understanding that highways are being built again. But I'm asking you who in the economic sense needs such highways today? If one Ireland has become the leader and role model of Croatia by investing in education and infrastructure and agriculture, then I ask you why we do not at least look at what the countries that are our role models are setting and which as role models and visual specimens we take. I repeat, I'm not against major infrastructure projects. Yes, of course. But let's create a system of values and see when it's possible to build, under what circumstances? Will this lead to economic development not only by statistical measures on how much we will buy new machines. Although that's the question. Because most of our highway-building companies are either in charge or on a licking machine that's not our production, but it's German, it's Italian. So, of course, the real question of what did we actually do with industry? Did we lift the machine industry? Did we raise the metal industry? Have we raised other types of industry, service activities associated with major infrastructure projects? Of course not. 90% of that is licking. And even if you want, our labour force is often imported, right on these big infrastructure projects. Let's look further at what we've been spending on. Shipbuilding. I have no intention of talking about it anymore. A billion euros and she's government and this one. For what? Why? Agriculture and tourism, absolutely. I mentioned an example of Ireland that has more inca than tourism. One Prague earns more than all of our regions. Then we have to ask ourselves a question, how's that? Well, certainly not by living three months from a drop of sea, a ray of sun and a grain of salt. Of which, ladies and gentlemen, as difficult as it is for someone in the ear of pride to say Tin Ujevic, no country in the world has ever lived. No one can live with three months of work, nine months of waiting. No one can live on three months of wheat, but on a systematic agricultural and tourism policy. Mr. Minister, tell us what is the tax evac in Split, for example, or after the season in Dalmatia? Let's see what tax collection is, for example, in Varazdin, and tell us what is the tax charge in some other cities? How much is tax in Međimurje, and how much is it in other counties? So we'll see how much we're really spending, how much we're making up for three months of tourism. And finally, let's look at what we're not spending on. We do not spend on industrial production and the promotion of industrial production and exports. We're spending something but still too little. Croatia is ladies and gentlemen at 65% of pre-war industrial production. 65%. We haven't been able to raise her for 19 years. What we bring today as a recession and anti-recession measure, a free fifth day, or a four-day working week, is the first measure of proactive industrial policy. With what HBOR's doing, any minute now, but that's too little. Croatia will not be able to live unless it raises industrial production. And therefore, the systematic measures that will come after this budget must be taken into account. And finally, Mr. Vice President, I apologize. With the solidarity tax, he absolutely supported it as a club idea already presented by a respected colleague, Pupovac. This solidarity tax must apply to each receiving. If someone earns from selling shares, they must also pay three or five percent or more, they must pay as much as anyone who receives a salary. Every income should be taxed on the solidarity tax, because it is the only social rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37463	Thank you. A few corrections. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37464	You say Mr. Chehok and you say it wrong. We spent more of the state budget than we could have. We were selling out national treasures. Actually, everything here is true except for the deputy's personal deputy to me. There's no deputy for me here. That's not what we spent. That's not what the citizens used. That's what you've been spending. You're part of the government, you've been acting. So it's all true except for the deputy. You did it all. It's just that you're putting bills on people and citizens now. And that's what you're in charge of in a state that's been acting like a mess. And now it's burned to the nail, you're making an account for the citizens and you're surprised and you're talking in the plural in the first person of the plural. You should start by talking at least in the first face of the one. Because you've always been in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37465	Okay, well, I guess some of them weren't always in power the same. There's been some changes. ... Few of you were in power. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37466	Thank you very much. In Mr. Chehok's debate, which already sounds opposition in a proverbial manner, and in the end, the vote shows that there was not one statement that was incorrect. He says like this, it's been spent more than ten years, and it has nothing to do with left or right government than our mentality. Now, that statement is guilty because it has nothing to do with my and SDP's mentality. Our deficit and our duties are clearly seen where they went. From 2000 to 2003, the highway was built, and we returned the accumulated debts that the HDZ government left behind in 99, and that is clearly evident. Where 20 billion euros in external debt made by the HDZ and HSLS government in the last five years is nowhere to be seen. That's the difference. So it doesn't matter mentality, it has to do with the way it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37467	But a colleague of Maras, well, with the best acrobatics, it's hard to put under the correction of an incorrect allegation. ... Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37468	I would like to correct my colleague Czechok's claim that local and regional self-government in Croatia exists alone and that most of the money spends on itself. According to official data, the state administration in Croatia's budget participates in expenditures for employees of almost 5,000 kuna per year per capita. In local self-government, the share is only 15% compared to the national and per capita at 678 kuna per year. If we add the city of Zagreb, it is 847 kuna per capita. Your Varazdin County is about 451 kuna per year for employees and my Međimurska 339. There are also those who harm and are not boastful of consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37469	Varazdin and Chakovec are very far away. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37470	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In his presentation, his colleague Chehok claimed that Zagreb-Sisak highway is an highway that is unknown to where it leads and who needs it. It's an incorrect quote, I'll fix it now. It is the highway leading from Sisak to Zagreb and it is the highway leading towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, so along Sisak-Moslavina County connects us with our nearest neighbours. It is the most burdensome stock in the Republic of Croatia where traffic accidents often occur and it is a highway that is already not built in its full path, bringing investors to our municipalities and cities, which connects us with the largest market, which is the city of Zagreb. And Mr. Chehok, it is a road that needs citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County, the tormented Sisak-Moslavina County, because Croatia was defending itself in the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37471	And Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37472	In our rather confusing confusion, we are philosophers and colleagues in education, it has been a very even formally very confusing debate. My colleague, Chehok, is a few incorrect allegations between the others and the one my colleague spoke of as Sisak-Zagreb's highway not leading anywhere. It's already formally quite problematic. If it leads from Sisko to Zagreb, it leads somewhere. So, here's the deal. Confusion is that it advocates regional development, industrial policy. How does he mean without infrastructure, for example, roadside. How about we say the Zagreb-Varaždin road leads from nothing to anything. ... This one leads to Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, the whole world, so it leads to Vladivostok if you want, the world is bound to God. So I think this pledoia is a real nonsense that doesn't make any sense. It's a completely incorrect and false approach that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37473	Marine, the philosophers have interpreted the world so far, and now they're going to change it. Now we're going to individual debates 54. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37474	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. In fact, the last time Mr. Minister of Finance Schuker presented a budget rebalance, he said this is a meeting with the truth, and the truth is that with this rebalancing we started to draw a serious line in Croatia, and this debate is still a testimony today, and this is also about the fact that in Croatia we were talking about living unrealistically in relation to the objective possibilities of our economy. But I listened very carefully to my colleague, Chehok. I'm sorry he didn't mention at any point with all these things going on in the last 15, 20 years he hasn't mentioned war, war destruction and war damage. So, dear friends, every year we invest 10 billion kunas a year in solving war damage, which is what happened as damage to people, on infrastructure, on the economy. So from year to year 10 billion. The others are no smarter than we are, nor are these Irish people that you mention that we could have invested these 10 billion systematically in education and infrastructure and everything else is certain that the picture and the economic one today would be very different. The measures and the rebalancing proposed today by the government are certain that it is also politically seen as one of the most painful moves a Croatian government has had to make since independence. But why should we all welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Finance and support the government's determination. With today's budget rebalancing, Croatia started one process, showed that no acquired right is untouchable and that we are facing the possibilities of the budget with all these first 20 years of independence. We could say that we are facing all stages regardless of who was at any point in power, so both that wartime and that war years, and that transition years, but also this current time when we as a small country, as a little, as a vulnerable economy, were found in the wind of the global crisis. The war, the consequences of the last socialist system, the transition, have led to serious structural problems in which hyperproduction of various repairs and benefits has become a truly unsustainable burden for the economy. Today in Croatia, and this has already been the case, every worker in the economy must earn at least two salaries, so one of their own and another salary or one pension. Therefore, the ratio of those who directly create a new value in the economy and those whose income is financed from it is 1:1 if we consider both state and public services. Such a structure directly burdens the labour price and reduces the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. This current crisis and the problems that exist and I've told you what the consequences are, this crisis has only potentiated them, but I'm going to go with that logic of the boiler that states that the crisis is a challenge, this crisis is both a challenge and a chance, so both in a way and the wind in the sails of the government to move on without delay to change this structure. Also, what needs to be done for sure is climate change and a stronger development of the culture of work. In fact, these days we have had opportunities to read from the most prominent economies in the Republic of Croatia their remarks regarding the labour market where they simply compete, so when it comes to production, when it comes to working in the plant, in agriculture, etc., that people simply do not appear in relation to competitions when it comes to certain public service, so when it comes to safe state mangers, etc. Therefore, this culture of work needs to be developed. As for some moves to work, here's only one part, to make economic and agricultural support more efficient, but I'd say in that part and deal with the gray economy. In fact, I have always advocated greater support because I believe that they are a contribution to increasing production, to strengthen our statistical years, to better negotiations with the European Union regarding and ceilings of support and production quotas, to strengthen the competitiveness of our farmers in relation to farmers in the European Union. But I'm only going to give one example, not by name and last name. It's a gentleman who, first of all, jumps on a tractor, deals with agricultural production that is absolutely profitable, so from that production is to live. At the same time, however, it also receives 100,000 euros in incentives and has one employee. And he has this moral right to climb the tractor first and protest against the state as it has little incentives. Therefore, the segment needs to be dealt with with with with by the grey economy. So he can't have one employee, get 100,000 euros of incentives that are increasing every year, and on the other hand he deals with that agricultural production that is competitive in itself and that he can live decently. The other thing I wanted to talk about was a debate about public systems. In fact, the salaries of the directors of public companies have been made, with full law. But I'll say one more thing, there's no need for us to concentrate on the CEOs. I read this information that "General Motors" therefore as a world giant in its restructuring programme is moving towards reducing management to 1/3, therefore it is no demagogy and it is a way to increase efficiency not only in the financial sense, because it will certainly not solve the problems, but to go into that rationalization. You have a situation in public enterprises where you have a CEO, but then by county, by regions, etc. You still have dozens of small executives and small managers and they all have management roles. So with all the elements, they have a little less pay, but they have all the elements of these management contracts, counting on those severance clauses. Therefore, when it comes to this public system, these public companies should also be taken into account by a large number of these small directors who also participate in management salaries and benefits. The other thing and the other problem that is being imposed there cannot be someone who is the head of a public system where the state guarantees his job, guarantees him the market, guarantees him the price, be the manager like it's some kind of private bank or some private company where he has to fight for the market, where he has to fight for clients, etc., so it's not a clean management business. So these people need to be rewarded, but they can't go into classic management contracts with these huge severances where you have in some units of local self-government, we've had examples in the City of Osijek where people leave those positions with 100, 200, 300 thousand kuna of severance. Companies remained in dubiosis, no one in trade or court received a court case against the manager and his management benefits. Never anyone, however unrealistic these benefits were compared to business results. Therefore, all these contracts were chargeable, and these are people, and when it comes to those utility companies that are not on the market, so his city determines how much his tariff, water prices, waste of garbage, etc., his market is guaranteed because he is, by nature, an old monopolist there. Therefore, he should certainly not have any rights in that sense that are equal to the right managers, so those who fight for the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37475	Thank you. Two replicas. First female representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37476	You say a colleague and you agree with someone who speaks, and I think it's a very dangerous thesis, a crisis is a challenge. The crisis is never a challenge, except for the crisis is a challenge, but for the hunt in the blur, the crisis is a challenge for corrupters and corrupters, but for those who think how to get out of this crisis this is an invitation and these times are a call for solidarity, a call for unity, but even more justice, especially in the sense that the burden of the crisis is the most borne by those who have the most, and the greatest burden of responsibility by those who have brought us into all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37477	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37478	So the thesis that the challenge is a crisis, I was quoting who said and whose book is called that, but in that symbolic sense, there really should be a new challenge and some new momentum, some new incentive, and I would say a new chance. So it can be a creation in some way and a public opinion that both super painful and difficult moves can be made, so especially when it touches some acquired rights. Thus, the crisis can certainly be both a challenge and a new chance. But I don't look as negative as you that it must always be a space for some speculation, for some crime, etc., but rather the opposite that this crisis potentiates both one discussion and one public awareness that everything that has happened before has been more qualitatively evaluated and that real moves are being drawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37479	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37480	Thank you. Col. Kovacevic, I'm surprised to you when you talk about such benefits of managers in public and municipal enterprises as if they created their own benefits. Who sits on these companies' boards? The ministers, state officials, are sitting in local self-government or regional self-government who sign such contracts with them. If the company goes bankrupt or does business with a loss, the Commercial Society Act says that it is the responsibility of administrations and supervisory committees to do so. Which owner charged a member of the supervisory board or an article of the board? So what you're talking about is the impotence of those who tolerate it or the irresponsibility of those who tolerate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37481	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37482	Well, it's clear that I've talked about managerial contracts and manager's responsibilities as one system problem, and it's not just about public enterprises, for state-owned companies, it's about both utility companies, so by cities and municipalities. In these cities and municipalities, I didn't want to de-polmise it with the responsibility and guilt of a particular political option, but to talk about it as a systemic problem, because indeed these people who manage municipal enterprises and other companies in which politics, or democratic choice of citizens, decide on how much the price and tariff of a service will be, that they are not equated with those managers who operate on the market, who have to fight for that market, who have to fight for jobs, so that there is a distance and difference, and that there are then some criteria, criteria, evaluations to be introduced to be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37483	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37484	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Minister. I agree with your statement Friday that you said it at the cabinet session that Croatia is not in financial collapse. I think we're actually a small step away from that. You said in January that the issue of recession is overmystification in Croatia. Indeed, the causes of the Croatian recession remained only in the sphere of mysticism. It's important that we stay above the water. That's not your statement, that's what Mrs. Kosor said, but she didn't say who should stay above the water, the government or the citizens of this country. Explaining the last rebalancing a few days ago, you said this was a rebalance of truth. If that rebalancing was a rebalancing of truth, what's this one? This is the rebalancing of the new truth then, and if we continue like this by the end of the year, we'll have a lot of these financial truths. He was never more interested in the public finances of Croatia than he was these days, especially last week when I had the feeling that the Ban Courts were being played by the bingo government. Every two hours there were new percentages, new taxes, new proposals, and we all took a break Friday night when we heard that bingo had stopped. Citizens of interest in public finances have because 880 thousand workers receive a salary of less than 5 180 kuna, because 600,000 pensioners receive a pension of less than 2 100 kuna, because the poverty rate in the Republic of Croatia is 11%, which means that 440 thousand citizens are below these rates of poverty and because the citizens of this country are in charge of 120 billion kuna. How did the citizens start acting last fall? So in the first six months of this year, sales in the store have fallen to a little bit by 17%. They cut their consumption 17% in the first six months of this year. How much did the state or all that or all those we understand reduce their consumption? Madam Prime Minister said here today that 80% of the budget goes to salaries, pensions, child benefits, maternity benefits and social rights. Now I wonder who set you up like that six times? Six years in a row, someone set you up with a budget where 80% of the expenditure is wages, pensions, child benefits, maternity benefits and social rights. It's not the late Prime Minister Racan, it's his fault, is it? Or aren't you going to defend some of your proposals for another six years by calling for that part less than four years of government? Mrs. Kosor said the government had ordered public companies to come up with action plans to save. And I ask what members of the board of directors do in these public enterprises? In fact, who are they first and what are they doing? Why are there supervisory committees made up of state secretaries and ministers if the Government has to order them to work on action plans? I don't understand. I have warned at least 10 times about Croatia's electricity industry and provided examples of how money comes out there and not saving. You can bring a gold action plan, but Mr. Antak in Croatia, the electricity industry will not save. If there were two million kunas worth of stock, if I sold them, I wouldn't pay a kuna tax. He'd put that money in the bank and in a year he'd make 140,000 kunas of interest, not even pay a kuna of taxes. Or an example of Mr. Vidosevic selling 500 thousand euros worth of company shares, putting in a bank, making 35 thousand euros on interest and not paying a single euro tax. That's why he supports this kind of government policy, and that's why he stepped up to defend these moves and measures. A luxury tax is introduced, expensive cars, yachts and planes. But who's going to pay that tax? Some sucker who actually buys it on his own behalf, not on the burden or on behalf of companies, because we know that all Croatian tycoons, in which they sail and fly, bought it at the expense of companies, not on their own behalf, and these sports and other stars do not pay taxes on it again because they do not have a residence in Croatia. They all live in Luxembourg, Monaco, San Marino, and I don't know where they all live, the Cayman Islands, the Crocodile Islands, etc. Perhaps there will be some sucker who will actually register the yacht in his name and pay the tax. I don't know where the gray economy got lost. Experts estimate that it participates somewhere around 30%, let's make it 25% of gross social products. There's no gray economy in these scissors. I know you need quick moves, fast-track moves in two weeks, but if you'd started the gray economy six years ago, maybe now the crisis hack would be 0.5%, not 2 and 4. How could you not have been able to propose amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties and reduced this 60 million item this year to political parties, at least 1% as a political, party contribution to reducing the crisis in the budget? You've come to propose all the laws that go into the pockets of peoples, citizens, workers, unemployed and pensioners. But here's the party financing bill. Agricultural subsidies are increasing by 376 million 3 and a half billion. Okay. When will the inventory result in these incentives? What did Croatia get with these incentives? We've cut the price, increased production and made technological recovery big. I don't know about any of that effect that's been achieved. So you can throw another three and a half billion in agriculture, there won't be any results, as they are. 2004. The government had 15 members, now it's 20. Then there were 32 deputy ministers, now 66 state secretaries. The government has 18 council offices and central state offices participating in the budget with 370 million kuna. In this country we have 15 offices, 16 agencies, one advice, 3 central offices, 4 administrations, 9 offices, two commissions, 4 centres, 3 institutes, 3 trusts, directorship, community, regional centre, regional register, advisory services of two CARNET and the Heart in this budget, what I read to you is 4 billion 804 million. Workers are not to blame for the economic crisis and recession. It's not the unemployed or the retired. They are guilty only because they were good citizens and citizens and regularly paid taxes, and now that they should really come with the system that those who were rich at that time when there was prosperity will pay nothing more than so far and will only be taken from workers, unemployed and pensioners in part of their existence. Some entrepreneurs profit in this crisis, like banks. What is the contribution of banks, not to Croatian banks, but to banks in Croatia to address this crisis? 94 billion kuna has invested this country in resuscitating banks so far. The workers weren't running those banks... Are we going to have to redistribute 94 billion to resuscitate something else, and now these same banks make their profits on the interest paid to them by workers and pensioners who have to take credit to live from month to month? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37485	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37486	Thank you very much. Mr. Lesar, in your debate, you asked yourself the right thing to do by the board of directors of state companies. It's really a question of all the questions that no one knows the answer to. What do the supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises do when members of the supervisory board of state-owned companies say they have nothing to do with it, when they bring management contracts to their directors, and that they raise their hands for them, and that they have not seen them at all, such as the HEP example. They bring a man a contract of management on which he has a ransom, or severance in the event of a cancellation, almost a million dollars without even seeing the contract. And then there's really a question of what these people are doing there and why they're sitting there, and why this law Mrs. Zgrebec was talking about, where they're also responding to the company's business law, what's it worth. Why isn't there any responsibility? The second thing you mentioned was a luxury tax, that is, this excise tax. 30 million kunas are planned to collect from it. How long will that be? Two and a half yachts, three yachts. So the rich will participate in this budget and the budget rebalance with 30 million kuna, and look at the devil, on the other hand Croatian citizens who make 3, 4, 5 thousand kuna, they will participate with 1.4 billion kuna. It's really socially sensitive and just. Indeed, in Croatia it is worth righteousness, and indeed in Croatia one who does not have to pay, and one who has a lot of pay, 30 million kuna, and the poor will pay a billion and 400. Well, there are some things seriously mixed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37487	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37488	A colleague when you mentioned supervisory boards and public companies just one sort of old example. The media released information that HEP fried a billion kunas in importing and exporting machines, because import salaries were 82, selling 20 each. I suppose that might not be accurate information. How did the HEP Supervisory Board react? Did anyone have a chance to hear or read that they met and requested a report from the administration? Did someone afterwards tell the Croatian public listen it was a prank not true, or that we launched an investigation to get information from the administration. Now I'm asking why do these boards even exist? I really don't understand what they should do if they don't react in such cases as this one that's mentioned now. If he's going to keep doing that, then you'd better believe me, that the board's job at HEP is a porter. He'd be far more aware than these State Secretarys.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37489	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37490	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Lesar, you said there was an increase in agricultural subsidies by over 300 million kuna and what we got. So what did we get? I think investments in agriculture are never too big. Because if 40% of the European Union's budget or 55 billion is invested in agriculture, and only 4% of us, that's certainly not too much. However, the second thing is that, instead of after each budget, we analyze the figures achieved by increasing that budget for agriculture, our experts just copy these figures and possibly add. And the real state of affairs is that with all this investment that production didn't grow enough, and that enormously only imports grew. If they were to say that in this assembly, then it would be blasphemy by the opposition ranks. But I think it is essential to clearly define Croatia's agricultural and rural policy objectives and to carry out a thorough audit of the support, their transparency, the need for targetedness, balance and all the problems present in that agriculture. At that time, it will certainly be seen that the funds we give for agriculture and which should create from our agriculture a sufficient producer branch, that they are not too large and that it could be much more useful if the results of that investment were adequate. And not that a lot of money ends up out of agriculture, outside of some of the things that should be related to agriculture and thus disappears, and production does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37491	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37492	My colleague Bodakoš's results of the subsidies in agriculture are about as much as this budget rebalance. A potato salad that looks very good at first sight. But the potatoes aren't too cooked, the onions burn like hell, the salt is too much, and the pepper pours some half a kilo in there. Even the chef doesn't want to try it. He's giving it to the people. I don't think he's going to try it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37493	Try and get your colleague Lesar to make some potatoes. And how I decrypt. If I didn't know one step at a time, then it would be hard to decrypt whose handwriting this is. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is said again that this rebalance, too, is the rebalancing of truth. How true it would be during this power. And every time one new truth and every time the truth about the same thing is different from the other truth. In fact, the rebalancing story is the story of HDZ rule. In fact, ten days ago, perhaps a little more than ten days ago, we voted here, or you gentlemen, by your majority, the Law on Medical Insemination. And thus power is played by the Most High, so it decides who will be born and who will not. This budget decides who survives and who doesn't. In the 1990s, you've been playing with property, now you're gambling with the lives of the citizens. And all with a smile. But that's basically what it looks like when the government doesn't take it as responsibility, but simply as a stick stick. So the one who brought us here, the one who ran away, gave the staff to Mrs. Kosor. A prime minister who a few days ago all in the name of that same truth told people publicly, people believed again. There won't be any cuts, we won't touch pensions, we won't touch wages. And now she's forgotten what she said, or she said, and she's from origin. In fact, one incompetence and irresponsibility that was visible almost from the very beginning. She now that you've brought us near bankruptcy, she's more visible. More visible than usual. And all the anti-recession measures you've taken so far, which were just budget rebalancing, all those measures after that were only worse for the citizens. Then, with that fundamental sin of yours, it is a worse sin when you do something. Then when you do something else, we're even closer to breaking and entering. The hack you're introducing is the worst possible measure. And in fact, that locket beats that it's a measure. It's a euphemism. 'Cause that's basically how it is. That's worse than a crowbar. Because the harbinger has imposed an alien on our people, but this is a robbery of his own people. That's why he hasn't made sense yet. There is no doubt, and there is no doubt that this hack will lead to a deterioration of our competition, that it will increase the grey economy, that in fact this measure will have, or that he will have some kind of short-term profit. That's why these extraordinary circumstances. Well, it's also obvious to a blind man that we're in front of bankruptcy, that you just want to extend that agony a little bit more in this horrible way. And what about after that? So this particular measure shows how serious the situation is. Because even if it wasn't that serious, because you wanted us in your opening letter, you didn't want to tell the truth to the end, so you're saying it's not a crisis, nor is it so critical. Then some other measures would be taken. And not the ones that will show up for a little longer in this very sense where experts tell you that we will weaken our competitiveness and that it will increase the gray economy. And otherwise this area, I mentioned earlier, this time of crisis and recession is an extraordinary and fertile soil for corrupters of every kind. And that's one big danger. In fact, in this way, you've shown state leadership, and now it's evident, one inability to run, the inability to care for common jobs. But here's how much it is to be able to take care of certain close authorities or authorities themselves only for their own interests, these people are simply tired of everyday knowledge and discovery. So it's practically a question of whether there's even more of a government where there's fluctuations, confusion, escape from the truth, talking in the best case of half-truths. So, the job is basically like so far, I'm just saying that now you can see more than before. It really needs to be reminded a little bit, and did you find in some vault the famous warranty card signed by the one who escaped and the one who got us into this? Let us remember what he said, tax cuts, economic growth, employee growth, standards growth, membership in the European Union. NATO was mentioned, though. We've entered NATO and now we don't even have a membership fee for NATO. And now you see how the country behaves that's scattered. We have just heard here a colleague who is in power and who speaks in the first person of the plural as if the citizens themselves were guilty of what they've gotten themselves into. A citizen who has raised loans and who has lived beyond his means will go bankrupt, will pay for himself or his generations of his own debts. But that's why he'd pay other people's debts, other people's bills, bad policy bills, state irresponsibility. In short, for all this time, the state has been acting as a dissension and establishing citizens and people's accounts without an explanation, and that's where counterpart Chehok himself said, why all these accounts were made. And when it comes to the budget it was well known where we were but it was an election year for local elections. It has been said for a long time about the necessity of reforming the administration, about how we have many units of local self-government, about the inefficientness of public enterprises, about their suspicious spending, about staffing. That staffing day doesn't matter today. You have leaders and leaders sitting here, who, by local administration and self-government, continue to hire their nephews, godfathers and friends because while Crobex's absence continues to run a heated stock exchange of party alike, best friends. That didn't stop. So this government has lost all credibility, exhausted the methods of good governance because it was not used to them but has exhausted the trust or patience of citizens. And you see, but you're not telling the truth at this difficult moment even though you're going to say, here we are now telling the truth, this is a rebalance of truth. In fact, Mrs. Prime Minister is also speaking when it comes to public administration talking about the need to conduct a deep analysis. Mr. Minister, your ministry has just carried out a deep analysis titled document pre-accession economic programme in 2008 through 2011, where it is just, I quote, that a functional analysis has just been carried out in the authorities of the state administration. This is what you sent to the European Union, and here you assure us that it will be necessary to carry out a deep analysis to see what it is. And in that document of yours, that is to say, in the analysis of the very expert body of the council, it is precisely in the report of that project which was confirmed by the Management Board at the end of this year by the end of this year that there are literally too many executive staff who have one or two perpetrators. So what country can and whose economy, whose economy can withstand it. So, it's been a long time and it's all been too long. Gentlemen, today when you speak you should believe the word that this is a moment of truth but not the truth that stems from this rebalancing but precisely from the way you keep running from the truth, run from responsibility. Of all the governments capable, less capable, of the incompetent, the worst rule is the rule of lies, and that led us to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37495	Thank you. A few credentials and replicas. The first is Mr. Representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37496	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I can't correct the incorrect allegations about the budget because my colleague didn't mention any of the data from the budget, so I'm going to deny this sentence of hers, she went to HDZ in the '90s and you were playing with property. No colleagues, in the '90s we did the most honorable work in the world, we led a democratically elected people in a liberating war against great Serb aggression. In the '90s, we saved the lives of 15,000 people killed, over 50% of civilians, you don't know that. In the '90s, we had a 50% budget drop in two years, so we pulled the country out in a more difficult situation than it is today. But I wonder where you were in the '90s when you didn't know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37497	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37498	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. From a series of inaccuracies, I'll name some. This authority decides who will be born and who will not be born. Fellow Members, this authority does not decide and at least this is decided by the Law on artificially assisted insemination. It is incorrect that this authority is incompetent and irresponsible. Very responsible because we are in a difficult situation not only us but the whole world. "The harbinger you're introducing is the worst possible measure." This isn't a hack because this government is really socially sensitive because this doesn't apply to about 900 thousand pensioners, to about 600,000 employees, and you've introduced a harrass when you've taken off maternity benefits and cut salaries in public and state service. You remember very well and you can remember in private the harras you introduced, I will remind you of a resident of the municipality of Bjelovar-Bilogor County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37499	Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37500	Mrs. Adviser said that this government decides who will be born and who won't. I think you've entered an area that you haven't quite figured out in the Law on Medical Insemination. That's what we tried to elaborate you last time because this government really doesn't decide. You just didn't get it. I don't know what you were doing between 2000 and 2003 when you had the same chance to pass that law. You lacked the courage. I'll just mention one example. Why don't an 18-year-old find out who his parents are, what are you complaining about? Secondly, you have thrown trees and stones at us, even declared us Taliban, that we have returned to what age our country is, which is not true at all. You're simply cheating on the public. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37501	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's hard to really correct my colleague's exposure because it wasn't about rebalancing, but I have to start over what my colleague Hebrang said from the start. Speaking of HDZ, colleagues, you were told where you were in the '90s, you were playing with property. No, my colleague, back in the '90s, I was in Croatia and we ran and we defended our country. The second correction, it's just one of the anti-recession measures, rebalancing. Well, you all said it was one of the main anti-recession measures, right on your side it was coming. It is the main anti-recession measure, but it is the other ones, which are primarily the preservation of jobs, incentives in agriculture, investment in small and medium enterprises, precisely for the stability of this budget. That is, the main one, but it will provide these first basic funds for 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37503	Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37504	Thank you. Comrade Anticevic, you mentioned Prime Minister Kosor's statements that changed in a few days. I would say, first of all, that if there really is a person today who is quite difficult, that must be Prime Minister Kosor. It is not easy to get to the head of the government, especially after the former prime minister in the form of his own tail has disappeared. It's not easy to come after a man who was a party pater family, so with manners, I won't talk about a party dimension, but certainly in the company of an autocratic person. It's not easy. And it's not easy to find yourself in times of crisis, in times of recession when society is really on the verge of a break-in. And I find it incomprehensible why a colleague, i.e. Prime Minister Kosor doesn't want to face reality at what's objective, it's the only way to overcome the existing reality. She reiterated here today that the situation is not critical, I quote, that there is no reason for fear and that it is about social rebalancing. I don't think it's going to lead us anywhere to close our eyes to the truth, to claim that the situation isn't critical and that there's no reason for fear, and even less we're going to make progress in winning space that would mean changes in accordance with what our esteemed vice president is, paraphrasing the 11th thesis on Feuerbach, when we think of Marx who said philosophers have interpreted the world differently, the thing is that he's changed. And it can also be changed to politicians, not... /The speaker turned off./... different interpretations of the world but.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37505	You better be quoting Carl May instead of this other guy. The answer is not to the replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37506	My colleague Jurjevic, should not stand out and complain about Mrs Kosor's fate, but he really needs to complain about the fate of the citizens and who have found themselves in the politics of this government in this situation. But you speak well, so even at this difficult moment Mrs. Kosor continues to be used in half-truths, still the ruling set does everything she's done for six years, now almost and hastily using half-truths, delusions, and how then trust them on the word when they've been doing a job that's usually been doing for six years, I say, falsely, lies. Well, here you are, and you're surprised today and people are surprised by it again, but when it comes to HDZ, there's no place of surprise, but there's room for disgust.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37507	Comrade Antičević, do not insult either party in this way. If you are offended, you can expect to reap what you're about to reap. You know what it is? You don't know. ... If you insult someone, they'll come back to you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This one more, don't. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I must not allow any party, position or opposition to be insulted here. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] You'll get a refund then, you'll see. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Ingrid and other colleagues who mentioned this latest tax, this famous crisis and compared it to a hack, I don't think they're quite right. In fact, the harachus was a basic tax or principal in the Ottoman Empire and charged from every man’s non-Muslim head as a kind of ransom from slavery. That's not the case here. Here it is paid by all citizens, either through VAT, through these 2 and 4% and is not the kind of ransom from slavery, but in some way still extends debt or any other slavery to citizens who have loans and who will reduce income. Harac gave the right to personal and property security, and here the rights to personal and property security are reduced because money is given to the government that wastes them irrationally. And in the end, the hack was something more social because it was divided into three feet, at... And he was something more social and the rich included a little more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why this tax that we're talking about is worse than the harras, and what's good for comparison with the harak is just that before singing the harraser in "Death Smail-age Cengic" followed an aggravation that we've seen as a kind of rule for the past six years, and then followed by the cob that these owners will end up as Smail-ag, of course coming down from power, I don't mean any other context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37509	A colleague, a harrasseur was at a time of feudal age, not a slave-owned order. That's what you need to take care of. And Madam Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37510	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Faced with this budget rebalancing in the Croatian Parliament today, it seems to me that we are moving in some vicious circle because of this rebalancing before it arrived at the debate, it seems that everyone has already said everything, now we have a canonade and a polygon of correcting incorrect allegations. I hope it will be on behalf of the ruling coalition and individual debates. Of course, it is in the nature of the matter that the government is defending its documents with partners, but let us remind ourselves that we have had a change with this government since January 2008 and at the head of 2 ministries for large reasons, crime, uncertainty, corruption. Let's also remind ourselves that with this same government we recently followed the Prime Minister's departure, so we got a new-old prime minister, so some new divisions in the government and ministries and here, Alice in the wonderland doesn't come through the closet, comes through the budget. We, as representatives and representatives of the opposition, can be against this kind of budget rebalancing, but we should also ask if anyone in this government is wondering what citizens and citizens think about exploiting tax increases, what they think about the government building on part of its responsibility by transferring everything to recession indicators somewhere far from Croatia without its share. The argument that this government had been given a mandate, that it had gained citizens' confidence, that in the parliamentary elections in 2007, the results of the local elections could be slightly different discussed and looked at what was seen, during and after. Recently, the ruling majority in the Parliament also accepted the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2009-2011 programme, so as the budget is drastically reduced, I wonder how the core objectives of this programme with this rebalancing will be achieved. So, for example. One of these fundamental objectives is about the preconditions for entering full membership in the European Union with a whole series of accompanying explanations. The item was very drastically reduced in the budget, the education of people who should participate in these processes has been reduced, even an item relating to the international and security position of the Republic of Croatia by taking over, meeting the obligations arising from support and membership in the NATO Alliance. Furthermore, the issue of budget increases, in the rebalancing of the agriculture budget, is a question that can be seen in coalition peace, coalition incentives and the maintenance of the coalition. How realistic and how long, it is not a question of whether we are for an increase in agricultural production, there is probably no doubt, and the question is how such a programme is implemented if all other items are saved and the money is actually taken. I would also say that one of the objectives was to develop and further encourage Croatian tourism. This reduces funds, and we know that 40% of the foreign exchange income of the Republic of Croatia comes from this activity. Therefore, the creation between the other and the assumptions for the even development of the Republic of Croatia is not guaranteed by this budget, nor is it drawn up. I'd also say the following things, and it's about something Mr. Pupovac said. He said we haven't found a common language in the coalition yet on some points. That is further worrying I must say, we from the opposition, me from the opposition because we expect the coalition to be agreed in the sense that it brings budget rebalancing and advocates it in the Parliament, not that it only lasts until Friday, as it itself announced. And finally, speaking of the position of social justice, I would like to express my disagreement with such a rebalancing and this kind of state where all the burden falls on the shoulders of those who depend on their work, who will, even with an increased tax, be further brought to the limit of endurance as individuals and individuals, as a family with or without children, but in any case, everyone will cut off that own environment and on the quality of life, on those conditions where healthy life is created, a healthy family and on which conditions are created, on the preconditions which guarantee a society of knowledge and development. And for that, this government has not been given a mandate for this kind of restriction. in respect of such a type of authorisation, it shall be subject to a new term of office. The point of the budget is, in any case, on the one hand to encourage and develop an equal measure, and that all spheres of life, but it can also be restrictive in one sense, in another, encouraging, but it is not. I'm afraid there's a population decomposition in front of us. Taxes are the same, but the basics of existence are very different and most of the burdens of such taxes and of such unequal rebalancing will be borne by those who have fewer. This is not an assumption for the development of society as we expect in the very fast future because these are in the ultimate line and measures and fundamental objectives of this government. Therefore, no vote can be given for a budget like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37511	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37512	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ferić-Vac, I took advantage of your exposure because you said something very important at the beginning and try to direct the remaining 50 debates in the right direction. You said we were spinning in a vicious circle. I couldn't agree more. Look, if this is a recession, and you economists define the recession as a negative economic growth through two consecutive quarters, then I'd like to hear from the minister, from the Prime Minister who are the economic branches that we want through these anti-recession aid measures, to turn it into a positive growth? What's the state of power, engineering, shipbuilding, agriculture? What are we doing based on the analysis we've taken? Unfortunately, we didn't hear any of that. This is exclusively a rebalance with the goal of budgeting. It has nothing to do with me with anti-recession measures that should really be heard from the government, supported or not supported. So, please colleagues, let's try to focus on solving the problem we have. Let's try, let's ask the minister and his associates again to be more specific, clearer, decident that we know which direction we're going to work in if this is indeed an anti-recessional rebalancing. If he's not, then tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37513	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Mirjana Ferić-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37514	Thank you very much. My intention was to encourage really colleagues to pursue the task of correcting an incorrect quote, rather than the actual interpretation of the rebalancing. I'd like to hear here from people who know more about the economy how it's going to work, how will it work after three months when you come back into the budget rebalance and where are we going to bring citizens and citizens with such play and their trust and their existence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37515	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's next, the distinguished representative of Brankica Crljenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37516	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. This rebalancing did not spare the socially endangered group of society, as the prime minister presented in her opening statement. This rebalance strikes those who actually have nothing, have no jobs, so it's a blow to the unemployed, reduces the unemployment benefits, and thus plans to save 100 million kunas. Of the 256 thousand 269 unemployed, about 57,000 of them receive cash compensation. Croatia is a social state and we need to take care of all those who cannot take care of themselves, therefore, and the unemployed who have lost their job by their own fault. We have about a million and 100,000 pensioners, 75% of them living below the existential minimum. There's no social justice here either. The salary of less than 3,000 kunas receives about 400,000 workers, which is also insufficient for them to live, and there is no social justice there either. The average net salary of 5 thousand 295 kuna covers only 79%, 88 consumer baskets. The average pension is 2 thousand 167 kuna, which is barely 40% of the average salary. The announced increase in VAT taxes to 23% is designed to create new commitments that should again be paid by those who live from their work, workers, officials, pensioners. So what's next? Salary cuts, pension cuts, workers' layoffs, unemployment growth, liquidity, wage delays and pensions, drop in standards, rise in prices. Social justice should be the basis of everything. Croatia is not poor, but has not distributed wealth well. So you need a new distribution. It is unacceptable that the small layer of Croatian citizens is getting richer and the growing layer of Croatian citizens is poorer. What about fighting corruption? I'll list three cases that show irresponsibly available to taxpayers' money. Croatian highways agreed several days ago with the Fund for the construction of an additional 8 million and 100 thousand kunas for the coloring of St. Rok and Mala Kapela on the Zagreb-Split highway, totaling the coloring value of these two tunnels reached as much as 43 million 600 thousand kuna plus VAT. The real market price of such a transaction is 30 kuna per square metre. The price of coloring these two tunnels is an astronomical 223 kuna per square. The second case refers to Croatia's electricity industry. Because of her administration’s disastrous business decisions, she lost at least a billion kunas this year. Since the contract with TLM was signed for 4 years, it is a total loss of 5 billion $600 million. And the third example again refers to Croatian highways and Croatian highways have awarded a million kuna job to the bidder whose offer was three times the price of the cheapest one, with the explanation that the only one of the three was complete. And we can't forget all those other affairs. I won't list them because the list, unfortunately, is infinite. These three latest news reports actually concern conditionally speaking smart management of Croatian taxpayers' money. In the last five days, about five billion kunas have been thrown. Where did your money end? Who's responsible for that? And in the end, who's gonna pay for it? This will naturally be paid by Croatian citizens. Those who work fair and bloody for every kuna they have and if the employer pays at the end of the month at all. Now this government is shamelessly saying that every citizen should bear the burden of the crisis. As we take out 3% of our salaries and pensions, crime in HZ and HEP is booming. The HDZ government has been promising for many years, debting the country, building card towers and bridges near the land that their counterparts bought, turning the country into golf courses, and putting up with dangerous waste, and citizens sleeping with their own problems and struggling to survive and suffering it all. Finally, we received an answer to the question why the former prime minister and the state summit had blindly insisted on building the Pelješke Bridge for years. At least this is about benefit for the inhabitants of the Croatian south. Only IGH, its owners, shareholders among whom there are a number of ministers, and no doubt political cartridges that camouflage this investment into a project of national interest will benefit from this. Unfortunately, this is nothing new in the history of HDZ rule. Private interest was often covered by national, but still. This case enlarges all the shame of this government and close companies, and most of all it confirms the hunch of a good part of the Croatian public who had since the very beginning suspected that some other interests were hidden behind this project. And that's the key question. Not only is anyone involved in affairs like Brodosplit, Liburnia, truck procurement, KIM, and now the Peljega Bridge, but also who is responsible for all this. To strengthen the mafia, to destroy businesses, to set up competitions, to hide the perpetrators, to cover up cases. No one takes note of an apparent conflict of interest such as the connection between the ministers and the IGH, but he is trying to make HEP directors an example of the other directors of public enterprises by the government, imagine, even replacing him. But only after the announcement of scandalous information in the media. And finally, to conclude, it's just amazing that in these times of crisis, this government has no courage to introduce a tax on property and capital gains. There is no courage to tax rich HDZ sponsors and coalition partners. There is no courage to force INA to pay the state a tax debt of a billion kunas, etc. But that's why there's a lot of courage to invite the gunmen that everyone has to make a contribution to getting out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37517	Thank you. And we have three corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37518	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am actually going to correct one of the most traumatic false allegations of Mrs. Crlenko who says so. The most socially vulnerable groups of the population have not been spared. Quite the opposite, Mrs. Blackie. With this not only rebalancing but also package law are exactly the most protected groups that exercise their rights under the title of the law. About social care holders and rights holders of maternity benefits as well as children who use the right to a child's allowance. And Mrs. Crlenko, when you're already using and talking about losses within TLM, then I must express my regret that you personally did not get to know how much the government is, and I will tell you that I am a billion and 200 million kuna has made it possible to live and work for a thousand 400 people who work within TLM in Sibenik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37519	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37520	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had the need to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague since the topic was related to Mrs. Klaric. I won't do it this time, but I'll say something else, and the correction is a quote. Very often public procurement, and you said about it someone who was more expensive was chosen. Unfortunately, that finding when you say it is possible. Legally in the context of public procurement has often led to the fact that one who is the cheapest is not the most favourable. Is that good or isn't it good? We could discuss that. But it is good for the public to know that very often we are in these procedures coming from the executive authority, and we are conducting public procurement in accordance with the law and electronic all that is necessary, we are in front of the final act. And we can't choose the one that's most favourable at the price, because I don't have complete documentation. Either we want it or we don't, we have to get such bidders out of our offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37521	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37522	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know if you wrote it last week, after Mrs. President of the Government, Mrs. Kosor made a proposal for a rebalancing. So you could have had time to fix it. I will repeat once again that in this rebalancing process, those social groups that you claim to be insensitive and that we are not a social government have just been bypassed. I'll do it again. 900 thousand pensioners and 600 thousand employees are surrounded by this rebalancing. So there won't even be a denomination of this crisis tax that's been proposed. That's one thing. Second. You say this shameless power. Representative Crlenko, this shameless government has created a state. If you weren't there when it was done. I don't know, but ask who they were.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37523	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37524	And this country builds bridges and builds a state. Unlike some of them who took her down.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37525	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate, no throwing away. Dear Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37526	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The debate on what was before, chicken or egg, certainly will not help Croatian citizens who are increasingly difficult and harder to live. They really don't care what happened in '95, 2000, 2002 or 2005. They are interested at this point in how it is now or even better how tomorrow will be and whether there is a way out of this difficult economic situation. And it's time for people to help, not fight. It is your job to offer solutions, i.e. to bear the responsibility to make people better in Croatia. And our job is to offer solutions. And this SDP contribution has been continuing over the past months. We have been pointing back a year at all problems, difficulties, dangers, difficult times to come, seeking agreement and willingness to reform, saving, we have proposed solutions that would make our citizens' lives better, easier, safer, but you have not taken it seriously. And at that point, everything was ideal, and let the citizens manage as they know and can. That was six to eight months ago. That's when you said everything was perfect. We have been responsible and constantly offering legal solutions here in the Croatian Parliament, not on the street. I will single out one law, and we have proposed that the law increase the rights of the unemployed, i.e. to help them survive the crisis. Unfortunately, on the other side of the assembly, we heard the laughter, the laughter of the fates of the fired workers and their families. And now it's much clearer that it was that laugh. This bill of law that is now coming goes even worse at the expense of workers who will be out of a job. It's not socially sensitive. It's not socially responsible. And to reject all proposals, and it's from a dozen laws that would affect and help, make life easier for citizens. These laws would relieve wages, reduce contributions, help people to live easier. It's all thrown away. But when we look at how it all worked backwards for six years, then the numbers speak very clearly. The 2004 budget. 85 billion, now over 120. In five years over 625 billion kuna. There was a promise for that money. It didn't do anything. And now what are the solutions. Taxes for the largest number of Croatian and Croatian citizens, as well as VAT increases. I'll remind you. In time, the former prime minister made it clear before one election that we will reduce VAT from 22% to 20%. Instead of saving and saving policies still spending, spending, just spending, except now the people will pay for everything. For serious, responsible, and credible approaches to rationalisation, savings must first of all be taken from themselves. Therefore, citizens should be reminded that the government of Jadranka Kosor, in which 16 ministries now exist, has more than 70 state secretaries, which is three and a half times more than it was during the coalition government, which numbered 19 ministries. It should be recalled that although the number of ministries in the ministries has been reduced, there are still 125 assistant ministers or directors of the administration as many as there have been before. It should be recalled that in 45 state bodies such as ministries, state offices, state institutions, other institutions, Croatia has as many as 154 state agencies along with the fund institutes of certain institutions and the government has established as many as 60 advisory committees, commissions, councils and committees. All this costs, each of these bodies has people working in them, president, director, professional service, expenses, fees and the results of many of them are not very well known to Croatian citizens. The public doesn't even know there are and they still pay for them, and they're gonna pay for them with this budget rebalance. It's also a question of whether to start with public companies. Today certain things have already been mentioned and should be repeated, they should be repeated because of the Croatian public that it is an unsustainable situation for one public enterprise to lose billions and 400 million kunas, that it is then said that the administration is leaving and that everything remains there. To buy electricity for 80 euros and sell for 20 euros and pay for it by Croatian citizens. Also, the unsustainable situation is that in a public company the directors appointed by the government, or people appointed by the government, play neatly, steal 3 to 4m euros into some accounts of the Shore Company and I don't know where everything doesn't and nothing. A serious procedure and a responsible budget procedure would be at least 2 billion, not 200 million. And what we heard today as a message from the Prime Minister. The 2010 budget is a guarantee of Croatia's future. Citizens ask how when this rebalancing is not a guarantee of the present and whether it will last until the end of the year. I will repeat once again that it is certainly not credible in my time three days before the elections say that the VAT will be reduced from 22% to 20% and now the one who spoke neatly on a luxury yacht as it is not credible to say that this tax, as the Prime Minister said today, will last until 2010 when two years ago in the elections of messages from these same people was "No new taxes", all of Croatia watched this "No new taxes". That's what you gentlemen said two years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37527	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First of all, she's an esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37528	Well, a series of incorrect allegations, but here's what I'm going to start with. He says people aren't interested in what was 91, 2000, 2002, etc. Sir, people in Croatia are very interested, not only until 91, but also before, because this country is very difficult to create. Secondly, it's incorrect that we were on this side laughing while you were talking about the fate of fired workers and their families. Pure political demagogy. You're still talking about the unsocial sensitivity of this government. I'm not going to tell you that really socially endangered groups are not covered by this rebalance, that there are not 900 thousand pensioners, 600 thousand employees, and what you're fantasizing at me with that paper was two years ago. I could wave to you two years ago, and today we wave to you that the situation is indeed crisis not only in Croatia but in the whole world, and these decisions must be made. And if you're a demagogue, please come to the Deputy Prime Minister and bring your suggestions. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37529	Thank you. Please don't throw it away. The second correction to the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative of Zeljana Kalaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37530	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I will correct Mr. Dragovan's incorrect allegations that our shared responsibility is to ensure a good life of citizens and thereby back his claim, says SDP continuously giving solutions, offering SDP proposals. That's not true. With a display like yours and several of today's shows from your benches, it just creates chaos, and it doesn't make any suggestions, you didn't give them to Mr. Dragovan. In your presentation, you make things blacker than they actually are and do not bear responsibility for spoken words. Two proposals were made today by the SDP. Your president is looking for a chair for himself, and that's why he's looking for a new election. And secondly, here's a quote from the paper "Your Linic is asking for the IMF or for 70,000 cancellations in the state administration, 30,000 layoffs in public enterprises, as well as for an arrangement with the IMF while at the same time the government is trying to keep as many jobs as possible and to avoid the arrival of the IMF." So much, Mr. Dragovan, and your social sensitivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37531	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37532	Comrade Dragovan, colleague Caparin has already corrected you on this assumption of yours that we laughed at the fates of the fired workers. Not that it's incorrect, but I could use some other expression as our honorary president has said. Indeed, it would be painful for workers who were fired and their families to laugh. Each job is wealth and capital, and this government has indeed made an extraordinary effort through entrepreneurship zones, to mention 300 entrepreneurial zones and that the unemployment rate has dropped maximum. And this rebalance shows social sensitivity in that part, and I don't really see how you can think like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37533	And we have one replica of the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Dragovan, you spoke of the rebalancing and the laws that await us these days to show that this government is not socially sensitive to which I fully agree, but I wanted to highlight that part of the debate, since we have been hearing from the Parliament all day long about how several hundred workers will be protected who have paid below 3 thousand kuna and those rich who have 3 thousand and 1 kuna and will still have to bear the burden of this crisis. But I find it extremely important to stress that this is simply not true because VAT will pay everyone, and those who have a lower salary. So, no one who has 2900 kuna wages will come to the store, attach a copy from the bank and say, you know, I'm protected from the Croatian government because I have a salary of less than 3,000 kuna. This is what has been trying to send a message all day on the other side of the assembly that those who have a salary of up to 3,000 kunas are maximumly protected and thus this government proves its social sensitivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37535	Replica reply, distinguished representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37536	Dear colleagues, the fact is also that the increase in VAT affects those who did not enter this system, that is, because there will be higher prices and it is certain that there will be higher prices, just as pensioners who have a pension of less than 3,000 kuna will also be affected by all of this together because these pensions will not be harmonised with the law. Among other things, that's why your coalition partner left the government. Therefore, the same well-intentioned suggestions that we are making here in the SDP in the Croatian Parliament in the interest of Croatian citizens do not want to be heard simply, and we have given them, it is not true that we have not given them. There's a lot of legal proposals you can do in the last year. Well, that and the secretary of state and the minister and the gentlemen of the government know a lot better than you, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37537	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's time for the Honorable Representative, Davor Huška, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is to begin with this final presentation by my colleague Dragovan on the proposed laws by the SDP concerning both rebalancing and certain activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance. It is known to all of us, and it seems that we must repeat this once again, that these legal proposals should have caused an additional budget gap in the state budget of nearly 15 billion kuna. Where the budget of the Republic of Croatia would be today if by any chance these legal proposals had been accepted. These proposed amendments and additions to the 2009 State budget are based on the new budget plan of revenue achieved so far. In this year's assessment of additional revenues which were also spoken of, this means introducing a special tax on salaries, pensions and other benefits, introducing compensation for providing mobile electronic communications services, increasing value added tax rates, equating the criteria for taxation of vessels, aircraft with those personal cars and motorcycles. The total revenues under the new 2009 plan are 111 billion kuna, representing an increase of 1 billion and 400 million kuna compared to the original plan. Also total expenditures are reduced by 260 and a half million kuna and amount to 120 billion and 500 million kuna. The proposed amendments and additions to the 2009 State budget are a continuation of implementation, as we heard, anti-recession measures and maintenance of liquidity and payment dynamics from the title of the state budget. While preparing this third rebalancing, several important restrictions were to be taken care of. In the first place, it is the fact that more than 80% of the state's budget is pre-set through salaries, pensions and other liabilities. It's not a secret, it's not a surprise, but it needs to be taken simply as a fact and as an important restriction in making and this rebalancing. Also, it's been more than half a year for us, so tax revenues and all the other revenues coming into the budget have been spent in this part of the year. There is not much left to influence by the end of the year, so I finally agree with what Minister Shuker said, including the Prime Minister. In fact, this rebalancing and this budget is one good basis for preparing the 2010 budget. I don't agree with those who are calling for the IMF's arrival, same with those who advocate the devaluation of the kuna, and I believe that the government is mastering the situation, but these moves successfully overcome this after the Homeland War the most difficult period in our country's 20-year history. It should also be said here that the government does not touch the socially vulnerable, the most sensitive categories of the population with this rebalance and should repeat it if it takes a thousand, a thousand times. No cuts in social benefits, no birth benefits are touched, no children's allowance is not touched. So all of these concerns about the threat and even greater threat of social categories and particularly protected categories of our young and older people in Croatia are not questionable. The introduction of this additional tax does not affect the receiving of 891 thousand pensioners. 891 thousand pensioners will not experience an additional tax on their pensions. Also, it pays more than 600,000 employees who have received less than 3 thousand kunas are not touched, are not touched by these new tax changes. The increase in VAT by 1% in solidarity is transferred essentially to all the population, but it should be said that here are ongoing and how visible it is on the portals, quite successfully the Prime Minister manages, negotiations with public enterprises, institutions, in the coming days and with food traders and basic life supplies where this 1% VAT increase is agreed on not affecting a new price increase. And according to what's visible on the portals, the Prime Minister is doing pretty well in these negotiations. At the same time, these increased revenues increase support to the economy, meaning firstly to preserve jobs through funding part of the reduced working week under certain criteria for which 200 million kuna is planned, as well as support for agricultural producers that are increasing by more than 300 million kuna. Exactly what has been agreed in the past days, weeks with agricultural producers, it is evident from this rebalancing that there is an increase in support. On the other hand, debt pay cuts, we feel it best here, and it's time to start right out of those salaries. So far, it is almost 20%, and I believe that with the reductions visible in the budget and the material costs, the costs of the team, all other costs where possible, it will be a good preparation for the 2010 budget. And finally something about the indifference of the state budget. There's a lot of talk about late payments from the state budget. As far as I know and there is a certain procedure, and there is a certain payment dynamic, but there is also a need to think about payment of commitments to the state budget, to pay particular attention to whether it is the cause of company indifference or only irregular payment by entrepreneurs, craftsmen who are late to fill the state budget and on various tax obligations, in terms of different contributions and this leads to certain difficulties in the state budget and, of course, to the execution of obligations from the state budget to users and to performers of various works and suppliers of different material goods and services. Finally, I am personally supporting this rebalancing, if it is necessary to make it clear that we will be offered more budget changes in the autumn, and I believe that this really is one good foundation in preparing the 2010 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37539	Thank you. And now we have five replicas. First is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37540	Thank you very much. In his debate, a colleague, Huška, said what is being said in front of HDZ this year as a thesis, which is that all the proposals SDP made are inconclusive because of what they cost. Comrade Huška, the problem of the entire government is that access to the budget planning business is exclusively accounting, income, expenditure, where I can take, where I can reduce. Unfortunately, I can't cut it enough, and I can only take it from the citizens and that's the entire macroeconomic policy of this government. What we suggest, redistributions, the way that economic growth would be allowed and the way the budget would be better filled, you didn't accept it because you simply summed up what it would cost, and what it would bring, you didn't add up. And the other thing I wanted to say about your debate is absolutely impossible for particularly inefficient public companies to find savings from this 1% VAT not to raise the price because they're so hard to deal with. A HEP on its 11 billion kuna revenue would have to find 110 million kuna savings within the company to keep the price from rising. It's not gonna be possible because this year alone, it's been down 13 million, not to talk about other companies that can't be more or less able and very rarely have 1% of the space, I'm talking about state-owned companies to make savings. Privately, perhaps, telecoms may have space and large margins and banks, etc. But public companies, I don't believe it'll be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37541	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37542	Thank you. Comrade Maras, SDP's proposals are expensive, that's for sure. 15 billion kunas found today to be literally invested through the state budget in certain economic activities, certainly and certainly that would bring some solutions in the long run, and where to find these 15 billion? Where do you find them? Second, the reduction, i.e. the retention of the same level of prices. I personally believe, here is a lot of talk about this and about the various costs in public enterprises, and also about the considerable incomes of managers in these companies, and I believe that certain savings are in these areas and material costs and the use of official vehicles and their salaries so that this 1% can be saved and that the final cost of increasing VAT on our citizens, or on us all together, and how much information they come from, the prime minister is quite successful in these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37543	Thank you. Second replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, I will also show myself to that part of your presentation where you are, and the rest of your colleagues, you are just saying that you haven't, that our proposals that we've been going with for the last year in this Croatian Assembly and I dare say that there have been no such proposals in this House about the crisis and what it can bring us would not speak at all. And I wish you'd listened to us a year ago. So you said that the adoption of our proposal would lead to a 15 billion-dollar budget gap, neglecting that the SDP was also making suggestions where we pointed out exactly where we could get incomes and who we should take. And what happened today? Well, fellow, by not doing this government, almost nothing but calling it a budget rebalance, you've led to a 14 billion kuna hole. And what are you doing now? So instead of taking the money for those who have it, you take it, you take the money for those who have the least anyway, which is these categories of citizens. And you're talking about that 900 thousand pensioners won't get hit with this. How is it not going to get hit? Those up to 3,000 kuna won't be taxed, but there's no pension adjustment going on, you forgot that. After all, read the explanations of all these bill proposals. Next thing you know, you're helping the economy, you're going to keep your jobs. So did you read where you get the money for it? You take benefits from the unemployed because you put them in relation to the minimal, so you save some 30 or 40 million kunas and you point them right at the economy. Therefore, those who have the least yet to be taken and taken from the funds of the Employment Action Plan. Today's Prime Minister praised two or three months ago how much money you predicted for opening new jobs, and you didn't even take advantage of swearing. And now you're saying you're going to help the economy, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37545	Thank you. Time. Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the whole answer would take a long time for a colleague named Sobol. Here, perhaps just this last one, reduced in the rebalancing of unemployment benefits, i.e. the Employment Action Plan, reduced amounts. A whole series of activities are under way and through the employment office and through the Ministry of Economy and on the ground comes to certain employment of individual categories, here is now the programme that goes through local self-government units because people who have been employed for more than 6 months, one year and two years at the employment office, and it really works successfully and gives results. It means that the funds that are planned are higher than necessary and are rerouted to preserve jobs. You can't say that all categories bear the burden of this tax. Up to 3,000 kuna, pensioners don't pay taxes. Workers up to 3,000 kunas of income do not pay taxes. Well, at least that's clear from these materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37547	Thank you. And now it is up to the honourable representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37548	Well, colleague Huška, here I am really fascinated by how you boast about the fact that 600 thousand employees will not pay taxes and 900 thousand pensioners. It's not to brag, it's to cry. Imagine that almost 40% of employees in Croatia do not have 3,000 kuna salaries, and that more than 900 thousand pensioners do not have 3,000 kuna pensions and it is not true that they will not bear the burden of this crisis because the Ministry of Finance has told you that at the time of retirement, 750 million kunas will be deposited in coordination this year. That's more than those who will pay 4% will pay those 4% taxes. So 500 million will be taxed, and 750 million will be kidnapped by the pensioners at their alignment this year, and 550 million will be kidnapped by the pensioners next year. Those pensioners are gonna have a really hard time feeling that. It will be very difficult to feel employees of companies with less than 3,000 kuna wages, which will have to pay almost the entire salary to buy their children books. You don't count on it either. And you don't count on a very large salary increase anyway. And if you had managed state property well and had not created a loss in HEP of a billion and 150 million kuna, you wouldn't have to introduce a hack. You could also coordinate pensions and you wouldn't have to tax them, not small or large pensions, but you'd have enough money to transfer it to the state budget and you wouldn't even have to increase the pensioners' electricity 40% of what you did.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37549	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We need to get back to the past, because you're reaching into the past, and then we need to move on a little bit. If we hadn't returned the lost pay dispute the SDP government made, there wouldn't be this kind of budget problem today. If we hadn't returned our pensions to the pensioners, which you failed for your term of office, there wouldn't have been this kind of problem in the budget today. So if we go back in time, then we go back six years back from that glorious period of SDP rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37551	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Huška, I agree with part of your exposure, but you have not, like many before you, highlighted the difference between anti-recession measures and the temporary palitative measures that follow them. And it's a big mistake of this debate. The curve with the wrong angle is recession. The result of recession, car takeoff, human injury. What can we do? Two things. Buy more ambulances to patch them up faster and drive them to the hospital, or fix the slope of the bandage. Unfortunately, we're dealing with ambulances.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37553	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37554	Thank you, Vice President. I agree as much as you agree in one piece with me and you. We're repairing ambulances at the moment, but we're also rebuilding the fleet. We rebuild the rolling stock, we create part of the foundation, part of the rolling stock that will... in the 2010 budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is simpler if these measures are short-term and must be short-term. Of course this tax needs to be paid back to people. These measures are foreseen until 31 December 2010. God forbid we can pull them out before and live more normally, but the government has a whole series of anti-recession measures that it implements through the Ministry of Economy, through the Ministry of Agriculture programmes, through the Regional Development programmes, in the war of the affected areas, areas of special public concern. These are long-term measures that must and which deliver the results in the long term. Imagine if it wasn't through the Ministry of Economy of billions of kunas brought down into zones, into small medium-sized entrepreneurs, where today the economy would be small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. These are long-term measures. And with these ambulances we're buying, we're sure to make a very simple budget for 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37555	Thank you. And distinguished representative Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37556	Thank you very much. My colleague, Huška, you have said that the employers' association very often highlights the problem of indifference in the Croatian economy. Well, that's what asked me to say that the employers' association is acting hypocritically. Publicly promotes care for non-payment of non-equity, and in practice promotes the same non-payment. Not all of them, but some of the dominants who regularly and collect from the state-owned business who have been doing millions of dollars don't pay their co-operatives' bills for them, and they hire their own funds. Large companies are also the ones who have charged, and do not pay suppliers, hire these share-purchase assets, for the purchase of other companies, for short-term loans, for investments, for development, and do not use in what is the fundamental meaning of the settlement of their liabilities. But it should also be pointed out that the employers' association, that all employers in the association don't think so. Most employers think that they need to settle their obligations and that only a few large companies dominate the influence of the employers' association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37557	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37558	Thank you, Vice President. So we who deal with our budgets in smaller cities and municipalities, of course our biggest concern is to secure incomes in that budget, just like our own here and the secretary of state and the professional services of the Ministry of Finance. It's not always simple. Incomes exist, duties exist, obligations exist also for taxes and contributions to the Ministry of Finance, but part of the employers, part of the owners under quotes, unsettledly reconcile their obligations. And there comes a gap, both in small local budgets and in the budget of the Ministry of Finance. However, if these employers invested in new technologies, in development, it would be less damage. He's investing in some other stuff. It invests in expensive vehicles, invests in yachts, invests in real estate, workers are disbursed by their salaries, co-operatives on the ground suffer, the small ones fail, but here is thanks to the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance of such employers in Croatia is becoming less and less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37559	Thank you. We continue the debate individually. Dear Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37560	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's clear and I've already found several times behind this speaker, and we all know that the macroeconomic framework, how the framework of budgeting, and then the already existing rebalances are included in this last... both of the world's, European and then Croatian events in the natural political and intimate life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the fact that 6.7% of GDP falls in the first three months of this year, the fact that it's not a Croatian product just has more, there are fewer. Just to remind you that neighbouring Slovenia is over 8, 9 or somewhere, something and Germany in that same observed period has a larger decline. This only concludes that the situation in which we have found ourselves is an integral part of the economic and overall social life of the whole of Europe and beyond. About 4.5% of people are expected to see real GDP cuts this year anyway. And I believe it will be so roughly. In view of the indicators that are available to us today. Of course, this is also conditional upon what is well-charged in this budget, which is a reduction in the basic consumption which certainly resulted in a reduction in the real wage mass. And what is certainly directly linked to the decrease in consumer credit growth in the end of investments, which in some ways works as I said on real consumption itself. But right now, let me look back and say that different countries in Europe are going different measures in this period, so some reduce and curb consumption, while some others are increasing that consumption, and by additional injections and creating it bigger than is realistic right now. So the question is how and how can we in these conditions be determined and where are our real settings for one of these ways and policymaking in this... period. So what we're on today is this last rebalancing that's 1 11.2 billion by 1.4 greater than the previous one. And especially not to owe in everything the government has proposed here, it's gone in two directions. In one way, financially burden those economic operators who are able to do so, first of all, I think of a concept that is related to the very measures to provide electronic communications services, and to some increase in VAT. but it is also related to the equalisation of certain criteria so that the affected layers of society are less burdened, and that is how I experience this rebalancing. In the context of the spending part of 120.5 billion, 260 less than it was in the second rebalancing. With those four important settings. And this is the preservation of jobs as far as possible, and on the other hand, the protection of the most vulnerable groups of the population. Certainly in this way one of the better, more efficient, and the location of the subsidies themselves, and ultimately the protection of the domestic industry to the greatest extent possible. Of course, I am just welcoming this one of the proposed measures, which is the achievement of support for the preservation of jobs among employers who are in difficulty, having to do with the activity of extra labour in addition to recession, so the reduction by saying collokital working hours up to 32 hours for which 200 million kuna has been secured. And it's safe, and now that I don't elaborate too much on this segment and not too much longer, that this third rebalancing will, in my opinion, personally within the late autumn, show whether we're on the right track for this year. And by building it, in a way, create preconditions for the creation of the 2010 budget. Personally, I can only add here that in addition to these standard segments, I am particularly considering that all those investments that are related to municipal infrastructure, primarily roads, gas, water, sewage is a prerequisite for economic development. There may be different concepts, but personally from the example of the city that I'm running, it's well proved successful. Finally, I confirm this proposal for rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37561	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37562	I fully agree with you that different countries in Europe and in the world apply different measures. But you didn't say that the aim of these measures is always the same. Economic recovery, exit from recession. I'm asking you out of these ten laws that we have this week on our benches, we have to do them, what economic branches are we going to encourage, what measures, in what time, for what purpose? What products will we be able to sell to get out of the recession? I'm afraid I don't see it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37563	Excuse me, Your Honor, you must have your word as follows. ... The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Turk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37564	Thank you very much. ... Yeah, because of these two, three hours a night, how long till tonight or four. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] To answer this question would be much, much more time. The indisputable fact is that this rebalance that we're doing right now is doing what we do to bring this year to an end. As is said in the framework of the government and ministers and the president, in about a month it moves with a proposal and preparations for the new budget for 2010. And when it comes to programmes for the development of certain business branches of activity, it certainly is primarily production that is a prerequisite for development. But here I think my answer to your replica wouldn't give you enough time to fully respond right now, but we're going after that for coffee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37565	And now it's the honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37566	Thank you very much. So here we have heard a whole series of discussions about the budget, and the least we've heard is what happened in the budget. That's why I'd like to start with a summary. In the past budget, the government cut expenditures by 5.5 billion. In this budget, it increases revenues by a billion and 400 million and reduces expenditures by 260 million. In simple terms, the government is trying to balance the budget with this budget. The balance needed just to keep the economy going in these difficult times of crisis. What are the mechanisms? We heard, 502 million from VAT, only 30 million from taxes on rich products. This means yachts, planes and expensive cars, 775 million kuna from a special salary and pension tax and 141 million or 141, and some hundreds of thousands of kuna on mobile phone charges. And that's actually all. But we listen to a lot of stories about what should have happened. We love to compare everything with other countries, especially countries in the region, and also wider in the European Union, as well as in the world. And this time we didn't mention these countries and compare. So I'd make up for it with my argument. So, the crisis is not Croatian, the crisis is European, the crisis is global, the crisis is global. I'm only going to list a few tragic figures of the world's economy. For example, that Ireland fell 10.8% in its gross national income and has been a role model for years, that Singapore has fallen over 11% of gross national income and has been a model for us, that unemployment in the European Union has reached a record 9%, that at this point 21.5 million people in the European Union have no jobs, 5 million people have lost it in the last year and over the last few months, 220 thousand people have lost their jobs per month. In this area, Croatia is actually one of the joint vessels to which this crisis has been spilled. That's why there's a drop in our gross national income 6.7% in the quarter, 4 to 5% at year level, a drop in industrial production and everything we've heard about. And now it comes after the diagnosis of order therapy, which should be done. If we look at what these countries have been doing that I've been talking about, then we'll see much deeper, harder and more radical interventions than those we've done so far, not in terms of quality, but in terms of damage to the lowest social structures. For the first time in history, one Germany has imposed taxes on pensions, not to mention Hungary that has reduced all wages by 17 to 20%. There are countless examples like this. And none of these countries were first-class government, some extraordinary elections, but an improvement in their own country, and the improvement of their own country can be sought in negotiations with social partners that this government has been doing. They accused her of wandering. She wasn't wandering, she was making suggestions that the social partners refused. The smart government is going to agree and does not solve the problem by force, and therefore I think that this budget rebalance is the result of the agreement, not the force, and that this is good, both for the government and for the social partners and for the standard of our citizens. And what does it mean to follow the advice of the profession? Someone here said why you didn't listen to your waist anymore. I've recorded statements, recipes, the treatment of a dozen of our independent economists as they say. An independent economist, I won't speak names, says the only salvation is to raise taxes by at least 3 to 4%, thinks of VAT. The other says no, not true, convinces President Mesic. The kuna needs to be devalued and very drastically and very serious. The third says why the government and that ministry want a balanced budget. The budget deficit is the one from which we can finance the development of the economy. The fourth says economist to lift all public works, means to build roads and all infrastructures, etc. The next fifth says no, reverse the introduction of public works because that's what we're going to hire, so Roosevelt saved America. So, what does it mean to listen to independent economists? It means listening to a fragmented orchestra where everyone is great playing in their violin but together the orchestra doesn't work. That's why the government needs to orchestrate all these tips, and I think this budget is one environment that allows for the survival of this crisis year. Objections that this government and these ministries do not know their jobs but also because four years ago, the budget was 30% lower than it is now. I'll remind you in 2004. 87.7 billion, 2008. 115.8 billion. In four years, the rise under this same government has been a 30-percent increase in budgets. So if the government doesn't know how she made that budget increase. The second objection is that the government spent too much. So if you're going to budget 30% up in four years, then normally it's going to go and spend 30% up. These expenditures did not go to consumption, they went very much to investment, to incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises, agriculture, etc. So the expenditures grew but in one reasonable direction. They haven't crossed the revenues for a moment. And it is commendable that the government managed to achieve that for the first time in Croatia's history, revenues are higher than expenditure. That's what happened in our budget. The budget deficit was reduced practically to zero and that was why our starting position was better than many of the countries we compare to. And why don't we compare? And why are we ashamed to say, for example, that this Croatia that spent half of its recent history in the war was destroyed by the decline of social product 50% from 91st to 93th did not make up for all of it, but far went and passed the neighbours in the region. Why does no one say that the average gross salary in Croatia is a thousand and 38 euros, that in the Czech Republic, which did not have a war of 940 euros, that there were 843 euros in Poland, that in Romania there was 474 euros, less than 50% of Croatia's salary and there was no war like in Croatia. Why not say that in Bulgaria, the average salary is 268 euros for those who prophesy the disastrous fate of Croatia. Or, for example, why don't they say when we talk about countries in the region that the salary in Croatia is a thousand 38 euros and in Serbia that didn't have a war in its 307-euro area or one-third of Croatia's salary. Or why it is not said, for example, that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, the war is also torn by aggression, which pays only 40% of the average Croatian salary of 401 euros. About Macedonia not to speak, unfortunately below 300 euros. So when we look at these figures, we compare ourselves to the neighborhood, to the region, to that Europe, then we should say one sentence to optimism. Yeah, we're in a crisis. This budget rebalance is the budget of the crisis, is the rebalance of the crisis but if not those in the neighborhood cry, if they don't cry, those in Europe why are we crying. Or since we're crying, why are we crying harder than they are and we should at least be a little more happy than they are? Well, let me finish. This budget rebalance is a rebalancing of the crisis, is a rebalancing of the need, such as in all the countries of the European Union, in all the countries of North America. I'm not going to talk about South and Africa because the situation is incomparably sadder than ours. But in this rebalancing, there was one middle. That means we've managed to keep the budget balanced, not harm the most socially vulnerable groups, so I don't repeat the data we've told many times. And what makes me the most pleased government and ministry with this promise is that the lack of a consolidated general state, so when we talk about the lack of a consolidated general state, we think of the total lack of state budget as a percentage of gross domestic product being at the border somewhere up to a minus 2.8% in the current year. And that's exactly the kind of information that gives some kind of little optimism for next year that world economists say is still a year of recovery and exit from the crisis. That's why I'm closing. I recommend that this rebalancing be supported because at this point I think there was no idea that would be less bad than this, nor was there an idea that would give greater stability to the Croatian budget than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37567	Thank you. And now we have two corrections and four replicas, five replicas. First correction, the esteemed representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37568	Thank you. It is an incorrect quote from counterpart Hebrang that the crisis has just spilled into Croatia by the principle of the law of the merged vessels, so someone from the Croatian government forgot to put a plug on otherwise there would be a crisis behind the plug. That's what's forgotten. It's like a crisis, it's overrun us. Come on, it's really far from the truth. This crisis is mostly the result of an incompetent government that created the crisis in Croatia because of its incompetence. It is a large part of an authentic Croatian product. It is not indivisibility imported, 23 thousand legal entities are incompatible with 40,000 employees, GDP decline of -6.7%, budget growth at the same time in that period of seven times, etc. That's what domestic masters did.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37569	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37570	It is incorrect that the crisis is caused by external factors. If this is a diagnosis of the crisis, then the diagnosis is wrong, and then the drugs are wrong, the treatment is wrong. The crisis was largely caused by domestic problems, high consumption that did not have sources in real sources. It is also incorrect to compare GDP's decline with countries that had high growth rates in previous times and not on consumption as Croatia, but on real production. It is incorrect to compare gross wages because of the Croatian gross salary to only 50%, now it will remain even less, but when we talk about wages and compare wages, we need to compare purchasing power, not gross wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37571	Thank you. And now we have five replicas. First is Honorable Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37572	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, surely it should also be noted that the last five to six years the level of social rights has been significantly increased from wages, pensions, unemployment benefits. Average salary increased by 30%, minimum salary by 55%. The union basket that we often compare with, we say, because that's what unions follow, that's the real cost of living, has grown in these six years by 15%, and so is this unemployment fee, so when we're going to take this new law, it's going to be a practical growth compared to the one six years ago by about 150%. So it should also be said that this government has not touched on any regulation that would reduce any material rights, any material right arising from collective contracts for public servants and tenants. So it certainly has its own price and that price logically that in this situation the recession crisis is normally more unsustainable. But I think you should objectively admit and say it, not simply ignore such facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37573	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37574	Thank you very much. My colleague Kunst made a fine presentation of social givings at a time of crisis that could enter the beginners of keeping the most socially vulnerable in crisis situations, without me being here, I can quote today's article, an interview with the vice president of the IBRD, and see what he says about Croatian social policy. If you don't know where it can be found, I'll give you the portal page. But my colleague Kunst said one more thing, that with these social standards and measures that have been taken, in fact, eased the social fall of the lowest layers, and I would add one more piece of information. The union basket in Croatia, according to the Croatian Statistical Institute, was improved by 0.8% last month. Improved by 0.8% last month, and in international parallel tables it is the only country, Croatia is the only country in which the union basket was improved last month, is that for +0.8, in all other countries it fell by at least 0.5 to 1.2%. That's why I believe it can really be said that this crisis has gone too far. The cap that counterpart Jurjevic was talking about is too small to shut up that hole they opened in the budget, which we had to shut down for six years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37575	Thank you. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37576	Thank you very much. A colleague of Hebrang’s noted well that they often appear so - called. independent economists who propose different solutions. Comrade Hebrang, I would stress that all these measures proposed by these independent economists are generally short-term measures and only analyse the positive effects of certain proposed measures, and each economic measure has negative effects. However, these independent economists only want to force themselves as authority, but they are not independent. They are either members of the Supervisory Board or representatives of capital or bank analysts or representatives of stakeholders or members of the National Bank Council and at least independent experts. And they are real independent economic experts, and there are many of them in Croatia, very few are promoted in public because the media is not interested in promoting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37577	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37578	Thank you very much. Now we have opened indeed a colleague named Maric to the subject of independent economists who fill our pages and who are never told anything, we will not have names. But let's say one of them who advocated the devaluation of the kuna is very interested in interest on loans, is directly interested in his position, to triple or triple interest on loans over a short period of time, thereby destroying the standard of citizens who have 140, 150 billion kuna credits, but to his bank whose advisor we make extra, extra profits. That's why I think it should be revealed among independent economists who he's playing for, through the prism to evaluate their statements. And all I have to say is that this government, not listening to such quasi experts, had its own team of advisors, but the most she listened to was listening to there were social partners, employers, unions, and I think it's the right way for every government because they are representatives of those who eat and produce bread, not those who collect from that bread just the fattest crumbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37579	Replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37580	Thank you very much. Mr Hebrang said in his debate that this is an optimal solution that Croatia needs at the moment. On the contrary, I think this is a solution that guarantees that the budget and everything about it will sort of collapse like a map tower at the end of the year. There will not be enough revenue, expenditure and those planned within the budget will not be controlled. What Dr. Hebrang said in his debate, which is true, the budget has been filling well for the past five years, but it has clearly been filling well when we look at how little Croatian external debt has grown during that period, no wonder it has been filling well. We borrowed money, they borrowed money from banks, citizens, and they paid consumer taxes, and the budget was going well. The problem is that this period has not been used to invest more in the economy and to create a real basis for maintaining this level of consumption. But the problem is another one. At the same time when the budget was charged well, expenditure grew even more. They grew in the last 5 years over 33%, unfortunately they did not follow them in the same amount and the increase in pensions and salaries because the government simply did not know how to control those costs during that period. And that's why I'm saying, at the end of this year, because now we haven't shown that we can seriously tighten another $5.6 billion in our budget, threatening to collapse that budget like a map tower.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37581	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37582	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I do not agree with you that expenditure grew faster than the revenue of this budget because if it were, then Croatia would not be in the most favourable position as regards the deficit of the state budget at the beginning of this crisis, in the most favourable position compared to the countries in the environment of Europe. Just because the budget went up 30%, and the expenditures went up less than 30%, that's why we had this comparative advantage. You're saying it's going to collapse like a map tower. I don't think so, I think it's going to be a stone tower if the deficit of the budget that the ministry promises with this budget and which it has foretold, and we have no reason not to believe it because the naked mathematics of the collection and the seduction shows that we're not going to get into minus the one I mentioned earlier. And external debt. In that foreign debt, the government did not really participate. You know that the government has reduced its share from 20% to 17% in that foreign debt and has not been able to influence banks that are naturally drug users and primarily citizens with loans. This was supposed to be done by the Croatian National Bank. Let's not forget that the crisis started because the American banks got out of control and shared excessive loans, so-called. mortgage loans. We can't blame the government for that. I ask what the Croatian National Bank was doing when it allowed such excessive lending. I don't know the answer, but it wasn't the government who could have stopped it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37583	Thank you. Now it is the turn of the replica, Honorable representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37584	My colleague Hebrang, I would ask you, there's no point in talking about salaries in Canada, Denmark, Serbia, with what we're doing today in this assembly by saving the budget there's really no need, let's not do that. Secondly, it is pointless to claim something that we all know, that the budget today is bigger than the one 3, 13 or 23 years ago, and it will not help us really accept and adopt measures that will be useful for this country. You have been very cunning in your presentation to avoid the mistake made both by Minister Schuker and Prime Minister. You weren't talking about anti-recession rebalancing. You have wisely used the term this is a rebalance of the crisis and this is a rebalancing which aims to establish a balance of the budget. Very clever. And that, I hope the media will register because there really is nothing in this rebalancing that would look like anti-recession measures. With this rebalancing, we save the budget while in other countries they really go anti-recession measures to save the economy. Many countries have neither introduced nor will introduce any new taxes because they have enough resources to direct them towards those economic branches to be saved. We're certainly five steps behind them, and many years behind them, clearly because of the way we're working right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37585	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37586	Thank you very much. He's not a colleague that I've avoided saying anti-recession because I think he's anti-recessional. And you know why it is? Because the government reduced 5.5 billion of its expenditures three months ago, because in both the past and the previous rebalancing, it increases incentives for agriculture, increases incentives through the HBOR over 500m euros for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the economy, that is production, it is creating a new value. That's not what I'm talking about because Mr. Vice President with this red light keeps interrupting my thought, so I have to concentrate on him. So why don't we talk about wages? We have to talk about wages because our worker, our farmer, doesn't care how much the percentage of the deficit of the state budget, he wants to know how much he got paid or how much he sold his product. That's why pay is the standard of all standards. And that is why I am proud to point out that Croatia's salary is incomparably higher than the salaries of countries in the region that did not have a tragic Croatian destiny and should be told to the people. If we need to say what we did wrong, I think we should say what we did right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37587	And a replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37588	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank my colleague, Doric, who, in his replica, said in some way the essence of what I want to say. Obviously, we really depend on where we are sitting in this hall, we understand differently or we thought differently about this budget rebalancing that was supposed to come to our benches because definitely this budget is not anti-recessional. He's just temporary again, like that budget we discussed here a few weeks ago, so to speak, he's slowly putting out the fire, but unfortunately he won't shut it down. Citizens of Croatia, I agree with all those who have said so, absolutely not interested in what is going on at this time, you started from Canada, you ended up in countries around Croatia. They're interested in what they're getting today, how they live today, what they're going to get in a month or two, so to speak, they're going to do with their buttocks or their performances that show them the amount of pay and they're very interested in them, or they'd like to know to what extent they're sure about the receipts they have now, which they're going to have tomorrow? What is it they have to give at the 9th or 10th month? A crisis charge, a crisis tax or a harrassor, whatever they call it, is unfair, because it only goes to one category in this society, and it goes to those who are all livingly paid and paid in all, especially in what they get off their salaries and pensions. Those who could give the most to this country, not in this budget, and I'm sure neither of the following budget rebalancing nor in the budget for next year will you even touch them, because if you're talking about much deeper, more radical and painful procedures, you're certainly not going to get it in those who have, but in those who now have too little.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37589	Thank you. Time. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37590	Well, everything you've said by the end of the day, I'd support it. I just don't know who you think this rebalancing, or these crisis taxes, they shouldn't have been affected. I didn't understand that. ... Well rich, he didn't catch the poor definitely. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And he dealt with the rich with the tax on expensive products as you know, he caught them with a tax on their salaries, only that perhaps more could then be discussed on the capital gains tax, which is likely to be discussed in a wider circle, because that means definitely a lack of investment, or even less wages. But I would not agree that citizens are not interested in what is happening in the countries of the region, the countries of Europe, America and Canada, because what is happening here will reflect. It's the law of a coupled vessels that can't even shut the plug. If the purchasing power has fallen in Germany, then surely I will not be able to perform my product in that Germany because there will be no one to buy it. And that's why it's important to compare. It's not just to show how much less we suck than others. And that's why we can say exactly as a colleague said before, we have different diagnosis, we have different therapies. Diagnosis can be wrong, therapy can be bad, but I'm lucky this time the doctor's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37591	Thank you. I'd just like to warn you without the intention of holding someone back or anything, but there are 38 other individual discussions. This debate lasted exactly half an hour on the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang with corrections and replicas. That dynamics will be over in 19 hours. That's all I'd like to say, and let's get straight to the debate. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37592	Dear Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In presenting this budget rebalancing, Minister Schuker said the main intention of the rebalancing budget is to cut expenditure, and the data actually speak exactly the opposite, although the minister himself says the figures are objective. So the expenditures are reduced by 260 million kuna, so only 260 million kuna, while incomes are simultaneously increasing by 1.4 billion kuna, so 5 times higher. Obviously, the principle of this rebalancing is an increase in revenue, to ensure that expenditure is covered. There are no reforms in this reform, no structural changes in the economy, everything, as before in these previous rebalancings, comes down to retaining the existing state, which is the principle of the functioning of a state which is its own goal, which is not in the function of citizens who finance it, which does not have its long-term country leadership programme, and also does not have a short-term anti-recession programme, so the programme of exit from the current crisis, but works ad hoc. And this budget rebalance is also ad hoc. That the government is not saving itself, which should confirm that this rebalancing is not based on savings in state spending, but is based on revenues that will result in additional taxation of Croatian citizens. By washing hands in Pontius Pilate's manner that it is not really her proposal, it says that taxation of citizens is the original proposal of social partners. So, we're not about introducing a crisis tax, we're about to come up with unions, we're just gonna do it. But regardless of whose proposal was original, the government is responsible as much as it has tried to escape responsibility and no matter how much responsibility through an appeal for understanding tried to redistribute to Croatian citizens themselves. So in light of the budget rebalancing, the government says this is a rebalancing of solidarity for all groups of Croatian society. How much of that and that kind of statement is hypocritical? In fact, the rebalancing is based solely on taxation of income from work both the present and the past, so both over wages and over pensions, and on taxation of, for example, property that has largely been acquired and in a very suspicious way, there is no sign of that in this rebalancing. Therefore, only when the property is taxed will it be possible to talk about the solidarity of citizens in the financing of the state depending on their economic opportunities as it is written in the Croatian Constitution as well. It is clear, therefore, that the budget gap will be restored, of course only temporarily, by taxing citizens' income. Of course, citizens will be able to buy less for lower wages and lower pensions, and that automatically means less VAT revenue to the state budget, and we know that VAT is actually the basic income of the state register. But the government has also jumped in a way that in a package of legislative proposals accompanying this budget rebalancing, it proposes to increase VAT rates from the current 22% to 23%, although this traffic tax rate is one of the largest in Europe, and although Minister Schuker was saying a very short time ago that there will be no VAT increases without one detailed, thorough analysis at the Ministry of Finance. However, it is obvious that water has reached the eyes as soon as the VAT rate is increased without any such detailed analysis. As for the additional taxation of citizens, however, the fact that personal consumption of Croatian citizens is 10% reduction, which is the biggest fall in personal consumption in the last 10 years, should be highlighted. It is clear that the standard of Croatian citizens is the first and biggest victim of this current government policy, while both state spending is growing. So, this rebalancing is going to be a minor minus on the state's account, but at the same time this will mean a greater minus on the current accounts of Croatian citizens. The question arises: Can personal consumption of Croatian citizens fall even more than this? Of course he can. If that's what this government decides. As the former president of the state, Dr. Tudjman compared, or the Croatian people called the cattle of the small tooth, then I will use this comparison to remind me of a very wise saying of the same people, which says, that the sheep is cut, and not that its skin is peeled. Because when the sheep peel the skin, then she guesses. And in this context, I would like to remind you that in the morning, the prime minister said that this rebalance is in the function of creating a good basis for the 2010 budget. If it is known in the morning, then based on this and this kind of budget rebalancing Croatian citizens actually have a lot of reasons to worry about how they will be tomorrow, or what they will be in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37593	Thank you. I have to intervene on one of your sentences, which is that the late President Tudjman has called the Croatian people the cattle of the small tooth. It's just not true. That's not true. He called some of his opponents political but never Croatian people as a whole. I'd ask you to take care of it anyway. What's the word for a dead man? Thank you very much. Dear representative Nevenka Majedenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37594	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin by saying that I will support the 2009 amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that it will achieve that goal, which is to achieve macroeconomic stability, that all commitments will be financed by the end of the year and that this budget rebalance will create the conditions solidly based on the 2010 budget. I am pleased that the president has held a series of meetings with the social partners when drawing up this proposal, considering their proposals and respecting them. And on the basis of these opinions of exchanges between the government and the social partners, we also have this proposal for budget rebalancing. What I would particularly like to point out, I think that if we talk about the crisis that is extremely important, and that is to protect the most sensitive groups of Croatian societies and what is important to me, and that is that no birth benefits are reduced for any of the Junees, an allowance for children, because it is a support to families. In the budget, let me just say that this position is 4 billion kuna. For this government, the demographic issue, therefore the population issue remains a strategic national issue. And so we'll both have kindergartens and schools if we don't have kids. It is commendable that working mothers will still have six months of full pay. I also support the proposal for a government decision, i.e. a proposal to provide free textbooks for students from socially vulnerable families and children of defenders, and for high school students, therefore from those socially sensitive families of intercity transport. I would also refer to a general increase in VAT rates by 1%. I don't think he's hitting the standard and he's not going to be the generator of the general gathering, and that theories are incorrect and malicious because they aim to raise tensions and general psychoses of fear. And there's evidence of that and some stories that they're going to collect bread and milk, and that's really not true. We here in the Parliament know that the rate for both bread and milk is zero percent, so there is no tax. On the other hand, the impact of VAT increases will be the fastest impact on the revenue side of the budget and will allow for the regular payment of pensions and salaries to all beneficiaries financed from the budget, i.e. pensions, healthcare, education, etc. As far as pay and pension taxes are concerned, its height and the level of the tax base speaks of him being selective and taxing more those who have more, which also contributes to the fact that the government is running a fair and socially sensitive policy. They are fully protected pensions and salaries, up to 3 thousand kuna and this applies to 891 thousand pensioners and 600 thousand workers who will not single out anything for that tax. Those who make three to six thousand two percent, and over six thousand will pay four percent. A similar explanation can therefore be given for the introduction of a special tax, excise duty on mobile telephones, luxury cars, vessels, and aircraft. The fact is, as far as mobile phones are concerned, we're too wasteful. We've got more cell phones than residents. Four billion messages were sent last year. It's the same thing with personal cars. Expensive personal cars are being bought. I think it's good that those who have more and who want expensive luxury cars, who want yachts to have to and pay. And I think that's what the citizens of our beautiful people expect and want. What I think is also extremely important at the end is the Law on Support for Job Conservation. Support for employers who have come into business difficulties because of the crisis. Shorten the working week or they will cut from 40 to 32 hours, i.e. introduce a workless Friday. Here are these state employers who will help pay up to 20% of the contributions, and 10% of the net wages, and again what we see 13% of the workers who have children. So based on everything I've said here, I say once again I support the adoption of this budget rebalance. And I am giving full support to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the other members of the government for everything they do, for the preservation of jobs and for the stability of finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37595	Thank you. We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37596	Well, first of all, I don't know how many times today you've heard that those pensioners who have up to three thousand kunas won't feel this. They're going to feel very much this, because it's in the whole package of agreements that there's no harmonisation of pensions in this year and next year. You will collect 750 million kunas from the haraks of all, therefore, those and employees and pensioners, and only saves on the fact that you will not align this year's pension of 750 million kuna. So the pensioners will give you 750 million kuna plus those pensioners over 3,000 kuna will give you another 4%. Next year, these pensioners will give you 4% and plus 550 million kuna as scheduled next year for alignment. Therefore, if someone has been particularly injured in this tax code package, they are just the poorest pensioners, because they need it the most. So, come out with the whole truth, don't tell me not to pick this up, don't pick it up and take you 750 million, and plus we'll take 200 million more pensioners over 3,000 kunas. And of course he'll collect everything else. There won't be any sudden but a nice bit of mic will be collected because there are no internal reserves for 1% of the VAT to be activated. Maybe it's a month, but it's not safe for a whole year. The HEP can't find 110 million kunas from an internal reserve because it has a loss of a billion and 300 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37597	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37598	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm saying again that pensions and salaries up to three thousand kuna that there won't be that tax on them, but I'm also telling you, and I don't think you know that this year is going to be a pension adjustment. So you're wrong when you talk. And as for our pensioners and I talk to them a lot. At this point, the most important thing for them is to get a pension on time, which is extremely important to them, and this government thanks to this policy, the government's fiscal policy, until now, every month, pensioners have been given pensions. That's the most important thing. You can say whatever you want, you just want to scare the pensioners and it's really not positive or good. So don't scare them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37599	Thank you. And now it is up to the honourable representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37600	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am, at the beginning of my debate, going to say one fact that I think we can all agree on, and it is said that it is much easier and more comfortable to discuss the budget at a time of economic stability, continued economic growth and a stable macroeconomic environment. Therefore, in conditions where the Republic of Croatia is precisely thanks to the quality of the economic and fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it has achieved truly envious results. I don't think it's appropriate to mention some of these results achieved in the previous period. This is economic growth, which averaged almost 6% in the previous period. Inflation that moved significantly below 3%, historically achieved the lowest unemployment rate in the past year with constant employment growth. It is known that more than a million 550 people were employed in the Republic of Croatia last year. Constantly reducing the deficit of the state budget, which was also discussed by Minister Shuker, who was 0.8% in 2008 etc. It should also be said that the budget of the Republic of Croatia has increased from €81 billion from 2004 to 2008 to €115 billion to €8.800 thousand, which is not only the result of strengthening economic activity and growth in tax revenues. This is, however, the result and work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has been focused on strengthening fiscal discipline and establishing financial consolidation. In this context, it is necessary to mention the introduction of a single securities system, mandatory internal control and audit and the trend towards which the state budget has covered its consumption from the collected revenues since 2005, which means that the primary surplus of the budget has been achieved. This has certainly contributed to a reduction in the general government's debt but also to a constant and continuous reduction in the government's budget deficit. Unfortunately, the circumstances in our environment have changed significantly, and these new circumstances simply need to be adapted continuously, and we in the Republic of Croatia, above all, to preserve fiscal sustainability and to preserve jobs and as much as possible to preserve the standards of our citizens. Namely, the new world economy opportunities in the second half of 2008 which unfortunately continued during 2009 are the least alarming. Many countries of the world, but also our closest environment, have experienced a break in their financial sectors and a major economic shock. Here one point should be stressed is that the financial sector of the Republic of Croatia while many other countries had to invest huge funds for the recovery and consolidation of their financial sector remained uncircumcised and remained stable. To this end, we should first of all thank the prompt reaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has proposed to this House the adoption of a law that raises the guaranteed savings from 100 thousand kuna to 400 thousand kuna. It should therefore be made clear that today almost all the countries of our environment are in a deep economic crisis and are recording a decline in economic activity that is significantly stronger than expected. This applies even to those countries that have been proud of their economies and their fiscal and monetary policies, today this has been the case. Therefore, in such circumstances, in the circumstances of the negative international economic movements, it was to expect similar trends in the Republic of Croatia because the Republic of Croatia is not an isolated destination, but the Republic of Croatia is part of the European but also of the global financial and economic system. Respecting changes in macroeconomic circumstances and the negative impact of the global financial economic crisis and on the Croatian economy, this rebalance of the state budget as well as the previous one is based on the expected decline in real gross domestic product at an annual level of 4.5% and an average inflation of 2.7%. This fact has affected the reduction in the amount of the revenue side compared to the original budget but these revenues have increased compared to the previous rebalancing by 1.4 billion kuna so that the total revenues are 111 billion kuna. This increase is the result of the planned introduction of new or increased taxes and excise duties, which are not really popular measures. I personally can agree that these are not popular measures, but I personally think that they are necessary in this situation because other than the savings already made during this year and in order to ensure the stability of public finances and to meet the necessary public needs, it is also necessary to intervene on the revenue side of the budget. During the year, significant savings were made on the expenditure side of the budget, which through all three rebalancings were achieved at €6.5 billion so that total budget expenditures amounted to €12.5 billion. This budget rebalance reduced expenditure by 978.6 billion but, at the same time, by redistributing and introducing post-preservation support, increased by 720 million kuna, which means that net savings from the previous budget rebalancing amounting to 260 million kuna. It is very important to stress that despite a significant reduction in the expenditure side of the budget, or a reduction in state spending through all three of these years of rebalancing, items on the expenditure side that contribute to the preservation of jobs and the protection of the most vulnerable groups of the population are continuously increasing. In this context, I will mention the fact that the allocations to promote the development of entrepreneurship have maintained the continuity of the previous period, noting that they have been doubled over the last four years, and that this rebalancing provides for funding to support entrepreneurs in order to preserve jobs of €200 million. Since I come from the space of Vukovar-Srijem County where agriculture is extremely important activity from which a large number of people draw their source of existence, I especially want to express my satisfaction that despite some demands, the funds for the needs of agriculture have been increased by 15 %, and I think it is very important in the context of further adaptation and restructuring of our agricultural sector. It should also be said that the deficit is planned to be 9.3 billion kuna, i.e. 2.8% of the estimated gross domestic product, which means that the deficit is reduced by 1.6 billion kuna compared to the previous plan. What I think is important to emphasise for this deficit, I think the minister has pointed out on several occasions today, that there will be no problem financing it during the year, of course on the foreign market to leave as much free resources on the domestic financial market for our economy as possible, but it is also a deficit rate, the rate still represents the level that the Republic of Croatia maintains its credibility on the global financial market. Finally, I will also say that in order to achieve this budget, primarily its revenue side, and in order to ensure the necessary measures to preserve jobs, it is necessary to amend and adopt a number of legislation aimed at strong anti-recession action and reducing the deficits of the state budget. And that's a lot of talk today. So I'm not going to talk about them much about this occasion, because it's going to be debated at the Assembly session tomorrow, but I'm going to mention how these laws that we're going to pass and discuss during the next few days will only contribute to the state budget in 2009 for a full billion and a half kuna, and it will only give its larger and more positive effect in 2010 when the positive effects will be around 4.5 billion kuna. And finally, I would like to say that I will personally accept this budget, which is based in some way on the solidarity of all layers of society and of all economic operators in the Republic of Croatia in this difficult economic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37601	Thank you. Dear Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37602	Thank you very much. I have already said that every economic measure has positive and negative effects and any economic measure can be both short and medium-term and long-term, and this rebalancing is the third in this year's fiscal policy measure and can be a good guess for medium and long-term measures, and it is only a short-term measure. But at the same time as implementing the rebalancing, measures must be taken to neutralize negative phenomena and trends that will encourage production, and only increased production is known to emerge from recession. It is undeniable that there are poor people in Croatia, but it is undeniable that the Republic of Croatia precedes other countries in many ways. Rarely, the country in the world has so many cars and expensive cars as the Republic of Croatia compared to the number of inhabitants. Rarely, the overseas country has as many yachts as Croatia compared to the number of inhabitants. Croatia has even more lawyers than one Japan that has 100 million inhabitants. Croatia has cca five million mobiles as a rare state with so many inhabitants. Croatia also has a number of companies that went bankrupt and that their owners have become one of the richest in the country. Croatia also has that individuals or corporations or groups share more than 1% of GDP, which is very rare in others, with more than 1% of property, which is very rare in other countries. All of this also has cause in what Croatia inherited from the 1990s, because it is not only the result of the recession, but it is also the result of conversion and privatisation. Well, it's no wonder we're in a difficult situation when we haven't received a single bank in the budget or kuna, and that bank makes an eight-year profit in one billion euros. It all fell on the back of the state budget today, both the Minister and the Government. There are examples of inefficient management for years. An example of shipbuilding. It is certain that shipbuilding would be more effective if it were not, for years, that 2/3 of the employees in the shipbuilding work 1/3 jobs, and 1/3 of the employees working as co-operatives are 2/3 of the value of the shipbuilding business and that shipbuilding co-operatives are also one of the richest and company owners and individuals of the company's owners. We also have state-owned companies, which are also at a loss and need to change the directors there, and we haven't changed them here, I admit. It's time to change them. There is something positive that can be done for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There is room for reducing Croatian broadcasting subscription and can compensate for the lack of income by more efficient management and rationalization of business, buying with a lower price of various series, making scenes and the like. There is space because it is both legal and economic subscription to fixed telephony. There are cases where individuals or groups suddenly become richer by making the state richer in its process. Such actions should be taxed. When agricultural land is declared construction overnight, it is so much a change in value in assets that it should be considered to be a basis for taxation. In a situation of difficulty in management conditions, it is unusual to keep and unreal cuts at 18% in Zagreb, 15% in Dubrovnik, 15% in Osijek because it can be managed successfully, develop centres, develop cities and manage and win power and with 0% cut as the mayors of the municipalities or mayors do here have an example of Zadar, an example of Koprivnica where they even win with 70% of votes, 85 colleagues, thank you well with 0% cut. So you can. And these are the measures that need to be taken and that will help us get out of the recession. It is high time monetary policy instruments had an impact on the reduction of interest rates, on the reduction of passive interest rates, and this is possible by means of monetary policy instruments and by selective approach. I know I'm taking responsibility for the re-attacks on myself because when I said it was necessary to reduce the reserve rate, then I was thrown out by the attacks, and when it was done, the praises were shared, but it was important to me that it was done and that it helped. Thus, I am now saying that it is necessary to reduce the rate of compulsory reserves for mortgages on residential loans to those 2% listed in the European Union, that this should reduce the rate of compulsory reserves on credits to invest in new production, new technology, new plants, but also that, if necessary, it should be increased to maintain financial stability and increase the allocation of the reserve rate to the credit rates for the purchase and takeover of other companies. So make it 17 and 20% again on that takeover. And it is known that only one corporation in Croatia in all banks in Croatia has taken advantage of the total limit of credit placements, and 80% of these placements are credit discounts for the takeover of other companies. It all disrupted the economic situation in Croatia. For all the above, I would like to remind you of one, when it comes to employers, a well-known economist Smith said that by performing them and the entrepreneurial role and by achieving the gain they do and some role of the common good and he called it the theory of the invisible hand. However, given the profits achieved and the extra profits obtained in certain segments. I have the impression that they've ignored the general good, and that they're exclusively working in the interest of winning and that, in that case, Smith's invisible hand is not worth it, but they need a solid stately but visible hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37603	Thank you. And now we have five replicas. First of all, she's the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37604	Thank you very much. A colleague, Maric, described the situation in Croatia in an excellent way. I'll just repeat maybe a few, I won't be able to tell everything in three minutes or two minutes. He says we have a yacht owner more than in rich countries. The rich are the ones who made some companies go bankrupt. There are individuals whose incomes take part somewhere with 1% of GDP. It tells state-owned enterprises, some state-owned enterprises are being mismanaged. We don't have an efficient business in state and public enterprises, citing television. State benefits wealth by its actions, and such wealth is not taxed. He says you shouldn't keep high taxes in cities, but the state keeps high taxes in the state. I'm signing all of what you said, but I wish this had been said in your place by the Prime Minister or by the Minister of Finance. If they had said that, then this budget would have looked different, then they wouldn't have come to us with a proposal to tax the work of the current and former person who brings income of 3,000 kuna. It would be far better to say that what you said that was said by those who created the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37605	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37606	Thank you very much. My colleague Zgrebec, this third budget rebalance is necessary and good for this situation because it is a short-term measure, which I have pointed out, but is a good basis for adopting middle-aged, long-term measures, which we now have problems to address with long-term and middle-aged measures and the problems I have identified in my presentation. However, I would take the opportunity to say that those greatest critics who refer to both government and teach us what to do, and when I mention in the amount of cars, the largest number of cars in Europe of all commercial chambers has a Croatian Chamber of Commerce. And that's where the voices come from, how we should behave and how we act. And to run an analysis of all economic operators, how willing they are to give and to pay membership fees, I sign more than 95% would say they don't want to pay for such an economic membership chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37607	Honourable representativeplatimir Mršić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37608	Well, fellow Maric, I must admit you touched my painful wound. For 8 years, I have been protecting the people of Koprivnica from the cut, for 8 years we have provided a high quality of life in the town of Koprivnica without introducing a cut, although almost all the cities in Croatia or only here and there have not been introduced, and then we are facing today a fact that the government is introducing a hack because unlike the harrases that will be collected and taken to Zagreb when you introduce a cut then for every drop of citizens, they can ask you where you reinvested it. For every lip you can show, here you see, this is where your cut went. We've done what we've done in Koprivnica without a cut. Today, unfortunately, the hacker is leaving again for consumption. There's another crowbar, that locket's called a water contribution. Unlike the municipal contribution paid by those investors investing in each lip, it is known where the municipal contribution is invested, the water contribution is not known. What is sad is the fact that this water contribution is more than a communal contribution in Koprivnica. More investors must pay Croatian waters than they pay their city, and when they pay their city, it is a reinvestment in raising the quality of life in the city. So what we've managed to keep in the wages of our fellow citizens is hijacked by the harrass.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37609	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37610	Thank you very much. A fellow cut is a really painful point, I admit it. But I didn't accidentally take today, I used it to say it, because today requires it to be encouraged. It was easy to get past that forced cut as the municipalities, the cities imposed it, and in a high percentage, only three cities below 10% seem to me. There's 10 and 12% tops. It's a huge load. This is the thing that slowed down economic growth the most and slowed down consumption because it directly affected the level of net wages. However, as far as measures from the rebalancing of the state budget are concerned, it is unnatural for the head of the municipality or mayor or mayor to have such incomes as there are in some places. You probably do it well, because if you didn't do it then you wouldn't have won such a convincing vote there and without a cut. I congratulate you on that. But there are those who abuse their position and the damage at national level. It was logical, therefore, to limit the fact that I could not have the salaries of the municipality's mayors to 80% of the budget for the salaries of officials. And I would also suggest that it be considered to limit the total cost of all employees’ salaries, for example, from 3 or 5% of the total budget, and only then will we get real financial discipline at these local levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37611	It's next, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37612	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you touched on one topic, which is a fairer distribution, that is, the burden of the crisis, and to whom it should fall. You mentioned banks. Here's an example that unfortunately we haven't heard from the Ministry of Finance, it's a serious income, when banks borrow money from their mothers banks outside, they don't pay when they return credit, they don't pay interest taxes, and they're the only ones excluded from it. So when the company borrows money from the outside, it pays interest taxes until the banks do. That's one big amount. Or maybe it would be fairer to pay the interest tax that citizens make in banks. This means that a certain portion of the population, so that richer part of our citizens has money that they hold as deposits in banks and now interest in banks is quite high. You can at the deposit, if you have a million, 2, 3, 5 kunas get and 10% a year and thus earn income from a million kuna, if you have 10 million kuna deposits and you pay nothing, zero. Why is there no interest tax? Which is why we didn't take 15% or 20% here, and thus more evenly and more burdened those people with money, and 130 billion kuna is a deposit in banks. We're talking about big money. So the one who's going to today, here's one mayor in Croatia who said I have 60 million kuna on the bank. He makes six million kunas a year with 10 percent interest each year and pays zero kuna. Well, he can work without pay and without anything. His life is a game. But that made it possible for us not to propose such proposals. And that's unfair, and that's what we're fighting.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37613	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37614	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras, you said they don't pay interest taxes when they borrow money from abroad, and when they pay their profits back and they pay... You don't normally pay interest taxes, and I think you should insist on that, and you don't need interest taxes, because interest is a commercial category and it should be regulated exclusively by monetary policy instruments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So today I also cried out that it is high time to take these measures selectively, to influence the height of these interest rates. It is high time, because we can't get out of the crisis to take any rebalancing, to be in debt, I don't know how much if the interest rates remain at this level, and for the level of interest rates is exclusively and responsible and in charge of the Croatian National Bank, not the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37615	Now it is up to the distinguished representative Željko Jovanovic, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37616	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. I really appreciate your debate, I think that they are very high quality, and they rarely fully differ from the policy that HDZ is leading, so I hope you will have a little more influence in the future and manage to fight for some of your ideas. You listed today, among other things, everything Croatia has and everything in Croatia. So let me supplement that and say that Croatia and the country in which we have seen over the past few days that 3 billion kunas have disappeared in corruption in Croatia and Croatia's highways and Croatia's railways, and unfortunately as hard as it is to say the last tragedy must be related to the corruption of public procurement carried out in Croatia's railways. Croatia is also a country where, on a daily basis, unpaid claims are growing by 23 billion kuna, and the generator of these non-payments is state-owned companies. We are witnessing that no more contributions are paid, health contributions, pension contributions, mainly from state-owned companies. Croatia is also a country where 600,000 workers receive a salary of less than 3 thousand kuna, in which 900 thousand pensioners receive a pension of less than 3 thousand kuna, and the average basket of the four-member family is 6 thousand 612 kuna. So, Croatia is a country where a million and 500 thousand people live on the edge of poverty, Croatia is a country where the current government, which has brought the country to the brink of the abyss, suggests that these poor workers and pensioners are the main bearers of the withdrawal from the crisis, which only shows how much this government no longer has any legitimacy to lead Croatia further.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37617	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37618	Thank you for your compliments, too, but I am working within HDZ policy and my debates are a contribution to HDZ policy. As far as your observations are concerned, I would never engage in direct grades when it comes to suspicious situations and characterise something like corruption, like robbery, and only on the basis of a newspaper inscription. I would also say that neither corruption nor robbery nor immorality are the property of any political party. It belongs to none... it belongs only to each individual. Good and evil differs in an individual, not in a group. And of course, where people are there are both virtues and flaws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37619	Thank you. I still have to say that now this one and the other replicas should come a little closer to the budget and the budget rebalancing that we are discussing. And we have another replica, the distinguished representative of Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is Mr. Maric, in his debate, touched one part regarding local self-government and practically 18% cut. We all know it's the City of Zagreb. The largest city with the largest population. A city with the highest number of small and medium enterprises. A city with the highest number of craftsmanships. A city with the highest number of employees, but at the same time with the largest number of unemployed and the city with the largest number of socially sensitive. All those categories I just said, they have to give a cut to the City of Zagreb 18%. And that is what in this time, the time of recession and when the Croatian Government and Madam Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor finds and fights for solutions to how to get out and how to find solutions to this situation. In the City of Zagreb there is a hack, not in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is right in the City of Zagreb that a harac is being carried out. See what happens to that 18% cut? It happens that we are witnesses, I personally living in the City of Zagreb and I am a representative from this area, that for many years our craftsmen have been moving from the City of Zagreb to avoid this harak 18%. What happens to some families? We have recently witnessed that many Croatian families who are indigenous to the City of Zagreb are moving out of the City of Zagreb to ensure their better life and easier life in the areas of some long counties. That's true. And there you gentlemen from the SDP, because your mayor is from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37621	Thank you very much. ... Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37622	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Solic, you called this 18% cut by my estimate, as everyone here calls one inappropriate name. I'd call it excessive tax burden. And you have well noticed that many move with companies and company headquarters outside Zagreb to avoid this tax excessive burden. But there's this situation that's not exactly commendable to us. That many fictitiously change the place of residence to avoid only paying that cut. But I would take advantage of this situation, because I forgot a little while ago when the government was attacked that the government was responsible for 600 thousand employees who receive less than 3,000 kuna salaries. I'd just say that for all those salaries, the unions that protect their interests signed collective agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37623	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37624	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the third rebalancing, I think it shows in that respect that in Croatia, six years it's worked too little, it's been spending too much. Borrowing it was a matrix of some kind of life and state, and so was the citizens. What happened? I think we're in front of a wall we can't skip. The economy is too weak, we haven't developed it, the debts have grown, there's no more credit, so that we can settle all that unhappiness and debt with it. At the same time what's wrong I mean the creator of that crash disappears. Even the party sends him away as a hero, and leaves the new, old-fashioned government with an obligation to bring Croatia and its population into line with the possibilities we are in. It's very difficult. And this particular budget rebalance should cut wages, directors, social contributions, stop projects. One word came to the payment of accounts made by HDZ's authority or ex or by the party's last meeting, the Honorary President made in the first row by promising behaviour. In particular, it was shown before the local elections when the first budget rebalance, rather than having the necessary measures to strengthen the economy, reform, reduce state spending, was one cosmetic action in the function of the elections. All the other projects were then, and even some new ones were offered. Soon it also showed a decline in the economy, a decline in GDP minus 6.7% of the first three months, and when we made the 2009 budget, the forecasts were 2%, etc. All of this showed that the ruling structure was not in the course of the crisis we entered. So what now? We have a third rebalancing in seven months this year. The first two have increased the budget deficit. What can we expect from the third? As we can see, the matrix is the same, the cuts according to the most sensitive, less pay for workers, less pensions, anyway to poor pensioners and defenders, the abolition of social rights to the most vulnerable. In the second budget, we had the opportunity to see that everything in school was taken away from free books, I don't know, transportation, homes, etc. And it continues to be taken now by those who are least responsible for this crisis. Where in this rebalancing is the money to start production, preserve jobs, save living standards? Why is there no sharp cuts to reduce the huge state spending that is around 25 billion kuna? If anyone in this ruling set can't gather strength and say, we don't need so many municipalities, cities, county, but also not just say, but also propose concrete moves. Because reforming the state administration is not just about introducing order into the salaries and privileges of local government leaders. The problem is in an enormous public administration and local self-government. Who still needs four times the number of municipalities and cities that were formed by independent Croatia? I don't know. Do we need to get rid of someone else who will immediately cut off this surplus of state administrations and territorial structures? Let's say in the end how much it costs and how much of it this people who pay for it benefit from all of it. Let's finally do an analysis of how many investments we have that we don't need at this point. A few months before the local elections, the former prime minister opened works for non-existent roads and all for the promotional purposes of the ruling. Why don't we just say this loud and clear today that the investments as a country bridge were not a reality but an ex-Prime Minister's force and his spite. Why doesn't the president make it clear that the Peles Bridge is a failure in the time it was started with construction? Why is IGH visiting a society that buys land around that bridge and is very interested in building? After all, I ask myself one question why it is not so attractive to buy land in Slavonia on the future route of the Danube-Sava-Dunav channel. Well, because it's never going to be dug up, and we should be able to stabilize agriculture and create thousands of irrigated hectares along with it. Croatia with an unfulfilled 10,000 hectares watering from less than 1% of used agricultural areas is one of the last watering sites in Europe. We have droughts every three to four years. And what happens then? The yields are reduced from 20% to 80%. And what do we have to do with this rebalancing thing? We're still reducing the small money we predicted, that's the issue of the part about irrigation that should certainly be increased. So he doesn't exactly behave like politicians of general practice who offer quality solutions like buying wheat when it's cheap on the world market instead of manufacturing in our country because it's cheaper for the state, or they even send messages via means of communication that we don't need peasants at all because they're too expensive. I'm still going to say something about part of the budget relating to agriculture. Today, when you watch the protests of farmers in Brussels who are not satisfied with the EU's agricultural policy, which stands out 40% of the budget with almost 55 billion. The question is, what does 4 billion kuna intended for agriculture or 4% of the budget mean in this budget. At the same time, we watch and listen to our TV programs by a great-sense professor who, by clicking on the laptop, brings savings to the budget rebalancing right on the item of which the subsidies of agriculture. And all that people are watching, listening, peasants are increasingly irritated, farmers are wondering what future this country is offering them. And our budget experts just copy items, figures. All these years, instead of analysing after each budget what has been achieved by increasing and investing in agriculture and whether it has gone the right way because there are legitimate questions if and so much money we give to produce, and the conclusion of this production is that it has not increased enough, and what has been an enormous increase in imports. That is true, and that requires more control over how these funds are spent. That is why this rebalancing, and especially the one for 2010 in the agricultural sector, should clearly define the objectives of agricultural policy. First of all, there is a need for a thorough review of the support, which is what the Government itself said, then their transparency, their intendedness and balance. The problems facing today by agricultural producers of cereals, wheat or livestock milk are the result of irrational development and the non-optimal exploitation of production factors, highly sophisticated and expensive machinery which does not have an optimal use coefficient and is bought on credit and an uncertain market affected by European production which is subsidized by other criteria. And that's why there's these problems that we have that we can't live off the production of milk, wheat, etc. In particular, rural development policy needs to be developed because 44% of the population lives in rural rural areas. They should be encouraged to provide employment and safe income, raise the level of education, and this will also lead to the rejuvenation of the population in rural areas and the stay of young people and fill them in these areas. As a result, this rebalancing should certainly increase certain items related to agriculture from interventions on the market, then research in agriculture, which has been reduced, subsidies to farmers, craftsmen, small entrepreneurs in rural areas and the issue of developing freshwater fisheries, there has been a total elimination of these capital aids. Finally, the issue of regional development of forestry and water economy should certainly be increased. A lot of things I think should be replaced. ... [[Speakers speaking out loud, doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37625	Thank you very much. The replica is not accepted because it's over. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations and one replica. ... Too late, the debate is over. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First is the distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37626	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. So I will repeat in this home as long as it takes for the Peleski bridge to be the real need of the population of the Croatian South, no matter how much you think it is, but the Croatian people of the Croatian South really think it is their need and that is their need. Dear sir, you have both highways and railways by Osijek, you from Varazdin also have highways and railways, you have highways and railways to Rijeka, you have highways and railways to Split. And what do you have next? You don't have anything. And then you say what the needs of the Croatian south are. So take a look at what's going on, be ashamed of how you can talk like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37627	Thank you. The second correction of the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37628	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I would correct the inaccuracy of a colleague who says that this rebalancing cuts social giving. We've already said a hundred times not to cut social benefits because this rebalancing left 4 billion kuna in the budget and socially endangered, both for maternity benefits and for an allowance for children who use 400 thousand children. And as for your proposal to reform the state administration, so you're proposing that 70,000 people be fired both in the state administration and 30,000 in the public administration, and multiply that times two or three times in the family, so let's see how socially sensitive they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37629	We have a replica of Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37630	Dear fellow Bodakoš, you noticed well when you pulled the parallel between what you were doing on the Pelješ Bridge and the Danube-Sava channel that should be made as well. Well, there's no one in this country who's against the Peles Bridge, I don't think there is one. And in fact, we would all be happy if this bridge could end as soon as possible, but the problem is that this year there are still separations for the Pelješki bridge at the level of 100 million kuna, and the work will not take place with that dynamic or we cannot determine how the work will take place since underwater works will take place. And there's something else I'd like to say. Item related to the Peljega Bridge. That determination, colleagues from HDZ, the Peljek Bridge can be made in two, three years, just have to say let's do it, that's our priority, let's make the Pelje Bridge. And it is not now that the construction of the Pelješko bridge is delayed, as the construction of the Zagreb-Sisak highway was delayed, as the construction of the highway to Dubrovnik was delayed, as the construction of the highway to Bjelovar, as the construction of the highway to Koprivnica was delayed, as the construction of the Danube-Sava channel was delayed. These are all the projects that a government will need to finish at some time, and so far it does not see an end because it does not give up, but it has already given up. So let's finish it in two, three years if it's determination. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37631	Now there's a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37632	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Bernardic, that's exactly what I said. The question is something that's been going on and what's been going on, so nobody's against us making the Danube-Sava-Dunav channel, to build that bridge. But was there in all these situations the possibility and need to do just that? It's these estimates that ex-Prime Ministers have had, and all of them have repeated, and that everyone today has no problem accepting that for six years, both Mr. Frane and the others accept that this is normal now to delay it for six years. Something's started, it's stopped. I think it was better to start it, finish it, but what will bring us a certain priority, which will bring us a new value and make us an income with which we can later and build that bridge for Peljesac, Peljeski bridge. Because surely it would be nicer if the highway could get to Dubrovnik than this way we're going now, but it should also be said openly today, so we didn't, we didn't have to force so much when we saw that it wasn't really possible in this time and we realized it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37633	Thank you. It's an individual debate, the 16th in a row of 53. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37634	Honorable Vice President, Minister and fellow MPs. Surely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to take measures that are currently subject to various criticisms, from unsuitable to insufferable and most of those politicians who have for decades themselves at the very top of Croatian politics and who have been acting in various functions given their very great pain to the current economic situation in the country. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also had to take such measures as are currently going to act positively and overcome major economic and social problems in order not to achieve the wish of those disasterers who call for bankruptcy, financial breakdown, i.e. disaster in Croatia. The dissatisfaction of citizens, workers, pensioners is understandable. Understandably, no one will accept with satisfaction if his wages, pensions are reduced, etc. So no matter how unhappy they are, but I think they understand the situation, and they understand it better than these individual politicians. It is positive that all these measures will last, they have a certain deadline, and that is the deadline at the end of 2010. However, one fact should not be forgotten, that the last five to six years the level of social rights has been significantly increased in Croatia from higher pensions, salaries, unemployment benefits, parental support, child benefits, reduced unemployment, and an increased number of employees. The Government of the Republic of Croatia did not negatively intervene in any regulation governing material and social rights, especially respecting all the rights of state official and subsistence persons arising from collective agreements. Surely, such a level of material and social rights has its own price and that, at this point in time, it is too expensive and is temporarily diminished through this budget rebalance. The government of the Republic of Croatia must not buy opposition euphoria in order to come to power, to take power and propose everything and everything, proposals that would make citizens and workers worse. Imagine the proposals, and logically that this is by that division of the opposition, which is worse to the people, the opposition better because it will come easier to power, imagine proposals to fire workers from 40 to 70 thousand in Croatia. So that's what some politicians say lightly without saying how much it would cost the budget, how much in principle, what kind of consequences would it actually have in the fate of those people who would lose their jobs, who would go to social work centres, who would literally be on the street and out of work. I think that such proposals are inadmissible and I believe that they are not well-intentioned for workers in Croatia. Call on the International Monetary Fund and public deception that the International Monetary Fund would not further cut and reduce salaries or social rights, pensions, etc., which is, at the very least, hypocritical. Hypocritically for the first reason that the Government in 2000-2003 already has experience with two stand-by arrangements that it has concluded with the IMF and knows what they had to do and how they committed themselves without social partners to cutting and wages and all social rights at that time. The price even pays for it by this government. The price is close to 2 billion kuna, I don't know, so far it's about a billion and a half, etc. So we have the freshest examples. You have the freshest examples that are now under way where the IMF has concluded contracts, take Serbia where wages, pensions are immediately frozen, public officials fired, all social rights cuts. You have a Latvia that has the same time to cut the salary by an additional 20% compared to last year, so that's about 35% down, cut all social rights, cut the pensions by 10%, you have Hungary that asked the IMF for help, but first it had to devalue 30% of its currency from the euro and increase VAT from 20% to 25%. So, where the International Monetary Fund comes from, logically, it's not going to order anything, but it's going to normally ask what the government has to do to help or be some financial tutor here. I think that would be a further challenge to the survival of these citizens and an additional burden to the citizens of this country. So don't call on the IMF, but support this government to get out of this economic and social situation without an external tutor. The government needs me, and I agree with all those who have said this today and more times, it is necessary to protect citizens from bank lending that are increasingly impoverishing citizens and bring them down to the level of debt slavery. The interest on loans is abnormal, abnormally high, as well as interest on the savings of citizens who attract money to banks. I'll call, now back in Canada, someone mentioned that Canada. In Canada, there's savings, interest on the savings of 1%. You have a man, our man who lives there says it doesn't pay me to invest my money and save money in a bank, I have to use them somewhere, I have to invest them somewhere in the economy, because my interest is too low. We don't have banks with that logic. They counter logic, how to suck up more money from citizens, not to invest in the development of the economy. It is unacceptable for banks to share billions of profits while the economy and citizens are becoming increasingly difficult to live. The worse for the citizens, the better for the banks in Croatia, no matter how much the government may not interfere, but I think the rules should be passed and those banks should also be taxed. It is also necessary to introduce an asset tax that is not in the function of personal consumption. I would also suggest introducing a property tax suspiciously originating in such a way that the owner would pay the tax until it proves the correctness in which he acquired that property. Let him pay the tax, and I think there are such in Croatia, and that it would be difficult to get additional funds through them, an additional income. Well, you know, there used to be a commission to question the origins of the property. Let us also remember that they had good experiences. The government must also end the parasitic life of public enterprises. It is unacceptable for the boards of directors, boards of directors, boards of supervisory boards to have no idea how many people in some key to lock-up policy practice, in fact just to satisfy something, and they have no idea or understand at all what kind of activity this company is dealing with where it is sitting. The number of members of the Supervisory Boards and the Administrative Councils should also be reduced, with a maximum of 3 to 5. These fees should be cut, should not exceed 50% of that society, businesses or institutions where they are located. And finally, I think that a territorial reconstruction should be carried out because for a richer state than Croatia, it is unacceptable to have 429 municipalities, 127 cities, 21 counties, where we have certain cities and counties are states in countries where there is simply great waste, and just before it was talked about a value added tax that is how they suck up funds from these citizens. So I think there should be order and finally, I support once again the government to find the right way out of this crisis without foreign tutors and not to fall for the opposition euphoria and the parrot rhetoric that demeans the government's moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37635	Thank you. And now we have six replicas. First, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37636	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I can totally agree with my colleague Kunst's debate, but I think it's necessary, my colleague Kunst mentioned that the government has not touched on social contributions, and that's true, but I think it's particularly important to note because today we're talking about a socially endangered category of people here, but here's nobody mentioned people with disabilities who belong in that category. However, children with developmental difficulties are receiving further increases in children's allowance. Don't forget that. By increasing the social base in the last year, the personal disability increased by 250 kuna, an aid and care allowance for 100 kuna. This may not be some big money, but it means a lot after many years that the base has not increased and I think the government is socially sensitive because it has just shown in the most sensitive category, it has not touched their acquired rights and when the situation in the country is better, it will certainly increase them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37637	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37638	Reverend Kunst, so I wouldn't want what happened to a series of things when it came to announcements coming from the government. I'll remind you that you've fiercely defended ZERP, you've given up on ZERP. I remind you that in the 2003 pre-election campaign you announced that you would lower VAT from 22% to 20%, you gave up on that. I'll remind you that in this last campaign you announced that there will be no new taxes in this way you're introducing them now, so you were joking. You've been kidding with all these things. And I don't want to, now you're afraid we're scaring people with the IMF. I don't want you to come here in three or four months and tell us that the IMF is the best solution because there is no better solution than the IMF. And by the way, the IMF gets the money at an interest rate of 2.5%, of course under certain conditions, while the government owes itself at an interest rate of 9% and you're talking about a limit on the growth of interest rates. But I must remind you that both banks and public finances in Croatia and because of relations and fiscal policy have increased the premium of credit risk that they must pay at the cost of capital. And by the way, that's why the interest rates went up. But we've sent you a proposal in the process to limit interest rates. Unfortunately, this proposal has not yet been discussed, and since all our proposals have been rejected, it is likely that this proposal will be rejected. And I urge you to support our proposal to limit the growth of interest rates and to protect the citizens together. It's a concrete example.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37639	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37640	Well, my colleague Bernardić, I believe that you can remember that somewhere in the world this crisis started somewhere early this year and means not at the time when elections were basically held, if you have appealed to it, so what was promised in pre-election time was neither known nor assumed what would happen later and which will normally have consequences on Croatia's economy, but not only Croatia, but also in its environment of all countries, including countries in the world. You've had a chance to hear more about it today that I'm not wasting my time. And as for the International Monetary Fund, so don't be a child, and don't fall for these provocations that the IMF will certainly give money, but what will be the price of that money paid by the citizens, which will be paid by the very most vulnerable social categories of this society? I'll remind you of the IMF, and you have your representatives back in the government, who are sitting in the Parliament today. I'll remind you what they committed to back then to the IMF. How much they cut their salaries, how much they cut off all the social rights. And they even touched the Labour Act, reduced the existing rights established by the Labour Act, by severances, by reducing the period of remuneration, etc. So it's all an extra weight for these citizens who barely survive anyway, whose standard is very low anyway. So you need to put on a scale both and each other and see what would be better. I agree, it might be cheaper assets, but the consequences would be far more damaging to the social categories of this society that survive so hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37641	Replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37642	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's colleague Kunst saying that opposition to parrot rhetoric behaves in the Parliament. I remind him that we have offered 12 laws in the past seven months that have been our concrete contribution, so a critical relationship of attempts to contribute to better lawmaking in this House. Of course everything is ignored. And what has HDZ been doing for the past six years? HDZ's populist policy had only one goal to preserve personal and party privileges. Dear Kunst, explain to me, if in 2003 in Croatia, 190.000 people worked in the public sector, and today there are 240, and that Croatian citizens have not received a better, better public service in any way. In 2003, 14 billion kuna per month was spent on the public sector, and today 24 billion kuna. So what was the purpose of this huge 10 billion-dollar increase, rather than a populist policy that the HDZ bought voters' votes to try to stay in power while bringing the state into bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37643	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37644	Thank you very much. Kola Jovanovic, so as not to say parrot rhetoric when one of these same criticisms is constantly referred to, and no solution is offered. Then it can only be called such rhetoric. But how could you explain to me when so much is wrong in these six years that you're saying that the public sector hired about 14,000 more people, then that the employment in 2003 when you started comparing it, compared to now 120,000 423 workers is more employed. So we can spread that unemployment has fallen somewhere for 103,000 731 unemployed. In order to explain to me that the average net salary increased by the circus by 30% compared to the average salary of 2003, that the minimum wage compared to 2003 increased by 55%, that the union basket jumped all by 15%, when we talk about costs, that the cash fee for the unemployed in 2003 jumped by 350%. And now that this law is cut down that we'll most likely discuss tomorrow, there will be another 250%, because at that time there was a fee for the unemployed of 900 kuna and then we hardly asked the Minister of Social Care to raise it to a thousand kuna. And today it is, and according to this law, you'll be somewhere around two and a half thousand those highest unemployment benefits. So when nothing's wrong, tell me, this is statistics, this is not that I invented this data, if you're interested I'll show you where they stand, and you can check them yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37645	Thank you. And now we have a replica of Honorary Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37646	Now, dear colleague Kunst, you said the banks are loaning citizens. You see the interest banks and the government, because every government, or the Ministry of Finance, has an auction of vault records every Tuesday. Lately, these vault records have sold with incredible 16, 17% interest cumulative. So, it sells 100 kuna vault records of 92 kuna and 70 limes, which is 7.3%, and 7.8% according to the report you have on the Ministry of Finance's website, at 7.8% interest. It's cumulatively over 16, 17% within 364 days. Of course, after that, there are no salaries, of course there have to be paid, because everything that would be paid is given to such expensive vault records, or interest, and it has to be massaged to the fat geese neck, instead of giving citizens enough pay. Your solution to me, tell me you're not offering a solution. You're offering it. Your solution is called a hack.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37647	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37648	Thank you very much. Well, the banks are sure to interest the citizens. The interest rates of these citizens who resuscitated these banks before they were actually sold to foreign owners. And logically, I will be against such high credit rates that these banks today prescribe to those citizens who are increasingly difficult and harder to return normally. As for this interest, the one you spoke of is the largest 6.8%. So it's not true of this percentage that you brought here. And I think that's where I totally agree with you and your proposal when you said these banks should be taxed, that in any case these banks should have and run one policy that would also be far more sensitive, because they share fate here at the end of these citizens in this country. So not in practically their home countries where they come from. And, of course, I will always advocate that in some way certain regulations stand at the end of this loan and creation I would say some debt slavery of citizens to these banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37649	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Peter Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kunst talked a little bit about wastefulness today. I'd say what wasn't said. It has been forgotten that during Racan's government, eight sets of tilt trains were purchased at 4.6m euros. Half of them don't work, they use them for spare parts. Without a direct contract. For the same Racan governments, a mobile ticketing device was purchased. These devices, along with the extra equipment that was particularly paid for, cost 400 million kuna. They never worked. The purchased trains were purchased despite warnings that they were not suitable for our tracks and that they could drive up to 200 kilometers an hour. There were talk of frames. From Zagreb to Novska, no station chief has any HDZ you have replaced them all overnight. So much for the frames. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37651	And we have a replica of Gordan Sobol's distinguished representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37652	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kunst, here I am, like my fellow opposition fellows like parrots, as you like to say, I'm going to repeat some things. But it seems to me that this can apply to you, too, because unfortunately you, like parrots, always repeat the same things and try to show in this House, of course, and prove to people who don't know it, that today they are much better at living much better than they did during Racan's government. You told your colleague Kunst that it was true that the level of social rights, different social rights, has increased over the last few years. It's more than once. But you also said and admitted, in fact, that it all got too expensive for this country and for the state budget. You said with this rebalance of the budget that this consumption is shrinking. Please tell me because everyone else has assured us that social rights and social rights are not diminished by this rebalance of the budget. I'm going to agree with you, so I'm going to say, it's getting smaller for that category that's gonna be the hardest to feel this recession, or crisis, which is what's left of their jobs. On them this government went among other things and reduced the fees because it puts them in relation to minimum wage. You speak in your debate should introduce a property tax, it should introduce a tax on suspicious property, so it should be reduced... so the fees should be reduced. I'm asking the question, so why wasn't it done in this budget rebalance or before this budget rebalance? And not the easiest thing was like you said, they'll figure it out best, hit pensions and salaries and hit that criminal tax...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37653	Thank you very much. You're out of time. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37654	Well, you see, fellow Sobol, you shouldn't be ashamed of your past. He who is ashamed of the past, his future is very questionable. And the facts were what they were. The witnesses were you and me at the time. But you see the difference is what? Surely, no one could have expected this kind of recession movement to be towards Croatia and would have caused these consequences. And that's why it's going to be too expensive for these current social rights that have been dramatically increased for the last six years that I've been telling you about all the time. Five to six years as you wish. But when you were cutting social rights, material rights, then it didn't have a time limit to which it would be worth it. This cutting knows people will be worth up to 31. 12. 2010 So it's a deadline, because unfortunately, that's the situation, and people can figure it out. But your cutting costs this government about a billion and a half kuna so far. I don't know how much longer they're gonna be, because they didn't pay for it because you didn't respect the collective contract or their material rights under the collective contract. So, you know, if you're growing people that this is a temporary fire strike that you're saving the social and economic situation in a state that this government isn't guilty of, is it Germany's fault this government? Could it be Japan's fault, too, this government? If she's guilty, please tell me the world's currents of the economic crisis and financial crisis are wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37655	Thank you. Let's move on with individual debate 17. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. As we know, nothing in our life grows permanently or forever, yet economic growth and development have been accepted as an integral part of civilization. And moreover, he is a proof of the superiority, of the eternity of this same civilization that we live in. The current financial and economic crisis is one of the first signs that as a civilization, we have reached some limits that are increasingly difficult to skip. When real growth is impossible, we resorted to creative accounting to prove that we are still growing. The situation in which it grows in some parts of the system does not exist, but growth is maintained with the availability of all types of credit is the cornerstone of a financial bomb that exploded in the world at the end of 2008, and now with us. A few months ago on television, I watched a man who represented the financial sector explain that this financial crisis was caused by poor layers, because they started to borrow over every measure. This man is probably not familiar with that old folk, that the fish smell like a head, so he went down on those who can't defend themselves. Perhaps we can learn from the Germans we often take as an example. Germany's Bundes Bank, meanwhile, fired 700 of the best-paid brokers from the top of the list of types of earnings as the first step in healing the financial sector. They spent the parole for sale of BMWs, rollers, yachts and houses in action. I don't think managers should be fired. But on this example, perhaps we should learn in Croatia that it is necessary to at least cut the managerial salaries that in some public enterprises are worth 50 thousand kuna per month and about millions of severances that we don't even talk about. Of course, this move, except for being politically correct, may in some way have damaged party feudalism, which would certainly contribute to the democratisation of society. This is, of course, just one of the measures, but I believe that all the proposed measures to get out of the crisis ultimately must offer safety to workers and their families and the necessary rules and supervisions must be reintroduced into finance. In fact, in the 1980s, a fair war came to a bad vote, and the opinion that one who works is at least a loser was enraged. That mentality tried to overcome the 1990s by calling for a moral restoration. However, a complex transformation in war conditions has led to huge injustices and has broken even the few ethics that remain in the economy after socialism. Some analysts note well that the point of "i" came at the end of the 1990s with a sudden resurrection of old people and a splendor of the value of failed communism. In 2000, it was a major turning point for the better. Although the change of government was positive for further democratisation of the society's prices and the turning point was very expensive. Moral restoration based on aggressive imposing on liberalism has not corrected anything and the value of work has fallen even further. The privatisation audit has not been carried out but as much as the entire injustice continues. Tycunic wealth with age has turned into fast stock profits. There was a flood of any financial institutions, strengthening the sector where there was a lot of smartness with little expertise, producing modest and making fantastic money. All this deepened social differences and further humiliated work and real production. I am therefore convinced that it is necessary to rehabilitate work as a social category, as a job that needs to be done consciously and honestly, and as a message defined by man in a dignified way, in which a person achieves fulfillment in the social field. It is also necessary to introduce austerity measures but not only of capital but also of resources primarily of those natural like water and land. One of Croatia's greatest treasures is its rural space, which takes up almost 90% of its surface. Rurally, it is increasingly perceived as a raw material base and increasingly as an ecological value, original knowledge and cultural identity. Agriculture is more than just economic activity. It is a way of life, it in a specific way forms a family, relations a family, cultivates a particular system of values. Therefore, the development of rural space is the cornerstone of the economic and social unity of each country. I think of people living in the country as guardians of space because over the years they have preserved the faith, language, culture, identity of the Croatian people. I therefore believe that farmers have the right to support because as long as they live in the countryside they do not grow chicare, the land is processed, biodiversity is preserved and food is produced. Although up until a few years ago everything seemed to be possible in the world market and that self-sufficiency in food production was not important, even the most desirable developments such as the oil crisis, wars and terrorism, unsustainable globalisation, climate change again put food security in the first order of strategic interests of a country. In the event of a significant or significant decrease in agricultural production, it is not possible to increase it significantly over a short period of time and the country becomes dependent on the import of food within the longer term. Therefore, Croatia must ensure at least 95% coverage of the need for basic food products from its own production. The issue of ensuring sufficient quantities of quality food has become the first-class political issue I believe we have an answer in this country. The Croatian village is a place where food, agriculture and farmers are therefore important because they ensure food production and also contribute to the conservation of biodiversity through the traditional way of farming such as pasture. In their way of life, Croatian peasants preserved indigenous varieties of plants and breeds of animals and thus genetic diversity. In order for Croatian agriculture to become competitive, it is necessary to introduce market lines, suppress the black market, organise collection, marketing cooperatives, build market infrastructure, encourage direct sales and processing to the economy, encourage purchase of domestic products for institutions financed from the budget, introduce programmes for greater consumption of milk, fish, fruit, vegetables and olive oils in pre-school and school children, and at higher schools and universities and encourage consumption of original Croatian products and of course traditional Croatian cuisine. Through the coordination and integration of the sector, I mean tourism, there is room for quality domestic agricultural products. Croatia has the opportunity to position itself not only as a destination that preys on natural beauty and old historical cities but also by rounding up offers through traditional quality and delicious dishes and wines. Many tourists are already revealing Croatia through the segment. As I have already pointed out many times in the Croatian Parliament, Croatia has the fastest chance to achieve its development opportunity by connecting tourism and agriculture in green and blue Croatia. I therefore paid particular attention to studying this rebalancing of the state budget to the division of the Ministry of Agriculture where a 250 million kuna increase is visible, which should certainly be commended. But I cannot apply that the significantly reduced items of rural development are intended for the construction of mini cheeses, honey fillings, the construction of prosciuttos, or the production of kitchens, jams, juices, which I estimate by step back because that money is actually taken to people who have decided to make a final product, give it added value and self-employed themselves and their entire family. The increase in funding in the agricultural incentive item is joyful if these funds are intended to realise the promises made to peasants during the peasant protests. Namely, I must remind you that the peasants have not yet received the promised 2 kunas and 20 limes per litre of milk, a premium of two months late, the ransom spot Dukat is abolishing on a daily basis and has already abolished hundreds in the last month. It is easy for Dukat to remove the buying-in places when they are allowed to import milk from Bosnia and Herzegovina with their hats and hands and when the state is generously financing the dairy industry to turn our peasants' milk into powder. It might be wiser to give that money to the peasants to pay off the loans and not to be in debt slavery because they were building new modern farms but to help them at least to start producing from a positive zero today. Namely, I must say to all those who here today in the Croatian Parliament have repeatedly repeated that agriculture is a cost. Gentlemen, the incentives for warfare have been paid at 75% for last year. It means that this largest agricultural branch and all those involved in warfare contribute to the crisis by giving up their 15% of the money. So, while everyone's taking off 3% of the villagers gave up 15%, I'd like everyone who's never done agriculture to remember that, but as far as I can tell today, they know all about agriculture. On the ransom price of wheat and rape oil, there is still no concrete agreement and July is nearing its end, but I hope that farmers will not remain short sleeves this time, as was the case with corn when the buyers took advantage of the opportunity and bought it at a far lower price than market and agreed. Despite such bitter experiences on behalf of my peasants and agricultural family economies, and regarding this rebalancing, I will express my hope that these additional 250 million kuna in the farm portfolio will indeed be intended for farmers who have made this money bloodyly, not the dairy and milling industry. And in conclusion, Mr. Vice President, I see that my time has run out, I must tell the villagers it's never been easy and they're certainly artists in the survival of crisis and without exit situations. As their representative, I'm telling them that I'm with them. Hold on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37657	Thank you. We have one replica. It's the esteemed representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wanted this replica from my colleague Bodakosh, but I was too late, so here. The story of rural development... But what I'm saying is, the esteemed representative, Mariana Petir, mentioned rural development, so that's what the previous replica was about. In fact, rural areas in Croatia are over 90%, which Miss Petir certainly knows better than I do. It's mostly undeveloped areas, so over 77% are undeveloped areas of this rural area. I also find it very interesting to see 67 million kuna rebalancing for these areas, but I find it even more interesting to hear from my colleague Petir, member of the ruling coalition and president of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club until today, that she does not understand how it is done. So how come we who are from those parts of Slavonia, from Vukovar-Srijem County to realize that this is help to peasants other than what you pay back, which you promised you'd pay back in a way that you obviously reduce the programming part and then pay back the debts you were supposed to pay back earlier. My colleagues Petir, I absolutely support your view that Croatian peasants should be helped, but this is not the help of Croatian peasants, especially the rural part of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37659	Replica reply, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37660	Dear Mr. Heffer, I am becoming more and more clear and well-known, because as you yourself have noticed, I am with Croatian peasants every day, namely I am a peasant child and I never gave birth to Croatian peasants, so I share with them their fate and their hard life. In my discussion, I mentioned that I don't think it's good to take it off on the so-called so-called. Rural development measures, because often with my colleague Bernardic, who I'm surprised he didn't give me a replica today, I'm plimising here and he claims that peasants should learn fish rather than give them incentives. So rural development measures are exactly how to help someone get their final product from their raw materials, and that is why I advocate that these rural development measures are certainly strengthened. As for 250 million kunas more in the agriculture budget, I said that I think it is good and certainly commendable if that money is intended for Croatian peasants to overcome this difficult situation, because as I said Croatian peasants have given up, unlike all other groups in society, 15% of the money, so all others are stripped 3%, they have given up 15% of their incentives. I expect these 250 million kunas to be on the trail of promises made to them and for the price of milk, but also to be an aid in buying out wheat and olives, which is extremely important today. That this aid to peasants is justified, I have spoken throughout my exposure because I think today the top topic in the world, as well as in Croatia, is food production. As long as we have peasants, we'll have food, we don't have to be afraid of hunger, and that's why I especially appreciate the peasant war, and I'll always fight for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37661	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Ministers with an associate. Starting this debate, I'm going to tell a people who have been hit with a great deal, and they say whoever caused the problem can't solve it, and that's my opinion. The problem he caused, caused by HDZ and coalition partners in the last five, six years of irrational spending, using Croatian taxpayers' money, this problem cannot be solved, there is no strength or power to make serious reforms and ultimately to bring the budget into those limits that Croatia can handle today. The government no longer has the support of Croatian citizens. Take a walk down the street and see what the Croatian citizens think. The only correct beginning of the solution to this problem is this crisis that this government is changing. This is what the citizens tell you, and they tell you more and more often your social partners, which you will see on the streets in a month, in front of these Croatian citizens. They do not believe that you can solve this problem and you cannot safely offer Croatia, Croatian citizens a change of situation and some perspective. Unfortunately, this budget as it is, I do not see it as good, will receive support in this House and it is in some way a continuation of agony, a continuation of the agony of irrational spending of money. And when you look at the comparison last year and this year, when you see that last year's revenues were planned for 115 billion kuna, this year 110 billion kuna, and when you compare expenditures, expenditures are higher by nearly 3 billion kuna, 2.7 billion kuna. So we're planning 5 billion less, and we're going to spend 2.7 billion more. Well, here's what I'd try to get close to an average citizen. You've got less money, you'll spend more. Can an average citizen run such a domestic economy or his family as is run by the Croatian Government of Croatia? Normally it can't, it won't even go away and eventually it'll all fall down like a map tower. Unfortunately, you will not only pay the price by losing power, the price will pay all Croatian citizens by reducing the standards and paying the debts that you will leave behind. On the Finance Committee today, I asked the minister, and counterpart Maric asked the same question, is it possible next year to plan a budget that will be without deficits. The minister says it's impossible, there'll be a deficit. It's certainly just a matter of how many. And this is another contribution to my debate that this government cannot solve the problem that is present in Croatia today, that it cannot solve the problem of spending more than it has and therefore it needs elections to give the new government the legitimacy and strength to implement the reforms it needs. The new government will see you when the citizens tell you, it certainly won't be you. Is that a realistic budget? 4.5% down. That's the question I'm putting before the minister here. After the first quarter of 6.7 short, the second quarter will not be significantly better. Everyone's talking about the decline in the tourist season around 10. What if the economic downturn happens to be 6.7%? Where will we find another 4.5 billion kuna that will be needed? That's what I'm saying because I'm telling you that we should have already been in this rebalancing process, and at a price, and we're breaking up contracts for the works that have been agreed or the ones that are in progress, or the competitions are ahead of the contract, at the cost of saving as much as possible, and it could be seen within the budget that there's room for that. Light rebalancing, two weeks ago from 700, 800 million kuna. So what are we going to call this $260 million rebalance on the spending side? Ultralight? Super light? There are no savings, the only thing you remember is to take an average of every Croatian citizen, pensioner, employee 70, 80 kuna a month and that's your solution? And don't say that one who has below 3,000 kuna won't pay anything. They'll pay, the price will rise. These are all stories for little children and you'll see it very soon. Inflation and an increase in VAT will certainly lead to an inflation that will take place in autumn. All of it will unfortunately be paid by those who have the least. The harac mentioned more than once today consists of VAT 500 million kuna, a special tax of 750 million kuna, and watch this, the rich will pay 30 million kuna. It's a tax and a luxury tax. The planned 30 million kunas. Here, Croatian citizens, this is what this HDZ government is offering you. You will pay a billion and 300, 400, on average every month for 70 kuna, and the rich who will buy yachts and other things that will be burdened with excise duties will pay 30 million kuna and that is the justice and justice that this government offers to Croatian citizens. Did we take advantage of all the revenue options in the budget? I don't believe it. I've spoken in a few previous replicas, so why don't we tax some more things? Why isn't dividends taxed? Why can people in this Croatia make tens of millions of kunas a year, not pay a single kuna of taxes? I said, someone who has 50 million kunas can make 10% interest on the bank 5 million kuna, they won't pay any taxes. But Croatian citizens will pay. The one with 2,000 kunas through VAT, the one with 3,500 kuna will pay 70 kuna every month. And income from dividend companies owned by the Croatian state planned at an astronomical amount of 89 million kuna. Companies worth 75 billion kuna incomes each year, 89 million kuna of dividends in the budget. It shows how successful the management of these companies is and that there is a minimum return on capital in these companies, which is averaged or return to income of 2%, 3%. We could pay these companies 2 billion kuna a year, but no, of course not, then we wouldn't pay electricity more expensive, sell cheaper by who knows what reasons. Then they wouldn't have million-dollar severances when their contracts are broken, then they wouldn't be doing non-transparent competitions that get Croatian citizens killed, these days we see it. All we're told is this HDZ government gave us and that's why I'm sure someone called out what the government was going to be? There will be no next HDZ government, believe me. Here it is, I said I'm sorry, the space in the budget was, the little analysis would find even more space in depth probably 5.6 billion kuna. We found nothing but 260 million kunas of expenditure and a billion and 400 taken from Croatian citizens, and next year, it is imperative for me to make a budget that will be without deficits and that will be closer to 100 billion kunas than is now spent. No 118 billion, 15 to 20 billion kunas down there. And then Croatia has a perspective. Unfortunately, this government doesn't offer it, Croatian citizens of this government, and I'm telling them now from here, they don't have to expect anything because it has no power to do anything, but in the next election, those who know will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37663	Those whom the people choose will come. And now we have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37664	Thank you. Well, here you go, colleague Maras, you've encouraged me to do one story. You were talking about savings on the spending side. So how is it possible that there are over 400 managerial contracts in the Croatian Railways? How is it possible that the minimum salary of a parliamentary representative is, here I am looking at everything, 13.5 thousand kuna, and 2,000 people in public enterprises have salaries that are 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 times the salary of parliamentary representatives? At least 2,000 people. I have today asked Prime Minister Kosor to provide me with the systematisation of how many people in public enterprises and with the state-related enterprises have paid more than minimum pay. And I'm telling you, if there's 400 contracts in H.G.'s management, there's a lot of these contracts. It is a demeaning not only of the institutions of this state, but it is also of demeaning and of Croatian citizens because people in public enterprises do not have to substantiate accounts that have management contracts, and they work and work in public enterprises. These companies are public. They are owned by Croatian citizens across the state. That's what we're talking about. And of course these companies can save a lot of money. Well, of course they can when they pay, there's a bunch that's so many times bigger than the constituencies, and that's what we're talking about. Here, I hope as soon as I can answer, and then we'll see how much money goes uncontrollably into public companies. Here, we witnessed a few days ago that some salaries were with certain bonuses and at the level of 100,000 kuna a month. Well, that's four times as much as the Prime Minister or the president of the state. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37665	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37666	Thank you very much. The answer is very simple on that question. It is possible because there is no will to get rid of it and it is possible because the vast majority of these 400 in HZ or there is someone in power in HDZ or she wrote a letter to someone in HDZ and she admired it and she deserved the pay she didn't deserve to kill. He doesn't deserve any of these companies, they've all made losses. We're talking about companies. Here's Croat Insurance, which last year ended up with a small profit, but with the reduced value of capital from, I think 300 million kuna. Are these the results that justify the salary of 40,000 kuna? No, they're not. But that's the distribution of prey within the ruling coalition, and that should end. You can't HSLS get your... in Croat Insurance, HDZ in Hz, and then we're all wondering why the results are bad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because that job doesn't work right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37667	Thank you. I'd still like to pray that we stick to the subject, but I'm trying to get a little closer to the subject and stick to the subject. Now it is up to the distinguished rep representative, Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37668	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, Maras, just a few things. The first election will be given to the voters, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so you will not decide, that is definitely. And I rely on their minds, which means they'll support those they've supported so far and who know very well what they want and who ultimately love this country. Secondly, there are only 8 contracts in the Croatian Railways. This one out of 100,000 kuna is the person who supported your candidate in the election. So much to clarify that fact. But I did not want to replicate in this regard. I wanted to say something about social partners. It is true that part of the union leaders has shown what social dialogue means to them. There is thought primarily of so the SSSH headed by Mrs. Knezevic who actually refuses anything and who comes even threatening extraordinary elections, calls for protests etc., etc. But it's about politics, but it's also about short-sightedness, and that confirms what you want. Why? So you want 100,000 people out of the system, so you leave them where they shouldn't be, without pay, without life, and you're talking about some hack here. Well, Mr. Linic, that's so many times said today, 70 grand from the administration would make out, 30 from the public, and plus it calls for the IMF. And you know what the IMF means. That's very well known. Then there's no social dialogue. Then there's no discussion about it. Then there is no social partnership for Mrs. Knezevic or anyone else. So you're the ones who obviously would want to cut even more than this government is now with its so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37669	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37670	Thank you very much. Mr. Matkovic to you all who don't think like you, as HDZ, are politicians, and to your misfortune, there is more and more each day. In the end, it's just you who know politics, these other politicians, so that's your problem. Yesterday, your unions were good. They're not good today. So why don't people fight back? You hit them, you made an average salary of 100 kuna a month to pay for your manifesto. So who wouldn't rebel? Why would someone pay HDZ's waste? What for, what for? And normally, they will rebel and grow more and you will see that people will know how to choose in the next elections, and that will certainly not be the continuity of this policy that is now, because this policy does not offer Croatia any good and therefore is the only prerequisite for this crisis's solution to change this policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37671	I'd be begging the MPs, and I said a little while ago, stick to the subject. It's a budget, not pre-election meetings. It's gonna come in just in time. And now for the guest and vice president of the House, Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37672	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll quote at the beginning one sentence from the Prime Minister, which she said this morning when she represented the budget, that is, the budget rebalancing. She said, "We have one Croatia and we have to do everything for it." And it is indeed a sentence which she spoke at peace and upon which neither I nor I, nor anyone of opposition, or of authority, of public, of such, or of such, left or right voters, has any objection. However, there is a dispute about the way we think about how to do it all to ensure Croatia prosperity and what I personally care about is a safer and better life for citizens. The position of citizens in which they will be able to work peacefully, be safe for their jobs and live on their work or be relatively certain as possible in a regulated market economy. However, the key question I want to ask here and those who are proposing this budget rebalancing is, have you gentlemen done everything you could to ensure the survival of the state, the survival of the state budget, public finances, the payment of salaries, pensions and all those expenditures financed from the state budget. It was said this morning that this government successfully controls expenditures and reduces deficits throughout the six years of its existence. You could say that's true, but what price does it pay? In addition to controlling the cost of their height, which despite that control was too fast, the growth in expenditure was too fast compared to the growth in gross social product at the time, you did not control and try to change the structure of expenditure which is unproductive. These expenditures were not invested in productive activities, in those activities that will bring new taxes tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, new revenue from the budget. You simply went beyond the many demands of different structures of people, spent money, committed to that consumption, and today we have nothing. And that is why it is not worth asking questions whether or not we need to do something when we talk about restructuring public enterprises, railways, state administration. We do. Of course we do. But then I rightly ask the question where did the money go and how much did we increase the efficiency of all these public enterprises or public services that have been invested through all these six years in this same restructuring? So look at every budget and you'll see billions and billions of kunas and euros from European funds, out of revenue, full revenue from the state budget that went into that restructuring and despite that spent money, we have an increasingly inefficient and inefficient public administration. We when you look at the expenditures of that budget, then you will see what the minister would say in a transparent manner, then you will see that no project is actually done by the forces of this vast professional administration, but all of these are some intellectual services. All of this is done by someone else and all of this is additionally paid despite these 230 or 270 thousand highly educated professionals sitting across various agencies, offices, funds. I don't even know what it's called anymore. Check the budget and you'll be appalled by what names it has. These are supervisory funds, coordination offices, but the coordination of individual projects and each of them has its own budget, its employees and each of them has a large item for intellectual services. This means that someone on top of regular salaries is paid some fees for a job done. You didn't control the cost structure, and now it's coming to the charge. You've been pushing the entire day from this ruling side to the SDP that we're calling the IMF, that we don't know but we're firing people, and I don't know what to cut, even though nobody in this room has ever said it to me or that's the content of any official act that the SDP has come to. Well, you see, because of those of you, on no reasonable charge, we have tried and made an effort to save. Your savings are a total of 170 million in expenditures. What's saving you are reduced expenses. And we thought it was possible to cut those expenditures with pure savings. Not by changing the structure of expenditure, because it requires a consensus, indeed agreement, one serious approach. It involves not only the story of restructuring but also a clear agreement on timing when and with how much money this restructuring will take place and which must be the effects. We tried to make savings. And no problem at all. And very realistically, very objectively taking care of planned expenditures, expenses incurred, last year's expenses for the same items. Without a problem, we've made a reduction in approximately 2 billion kunas. That your ministers, respected colleagues each in their ministry, really wanted to cut those existing expenditures so that the structure doesn't change at all, we could have gone without these 1.4 billion revenue increases that directly hit the citizens' pocket. Employees, unemployed, those pensioners don't matter what censors are there. The only measure that you have now proposed with this second rebalancing in less than 20 days is a new increase in revenue. No expenditure cuts, not even those of the administrative fools, those whom bureaucracy deceives you, or us fellow MPs and citizens. You didn't even try that hard. It's not you, it's your ministers. And that's why we can't believe that something serious is going to change. This is why it crashes into the water this sentence or the ultimate honesty of the sentence that the Prime Minister has spoken here, that we have done, that you have done, and that we are ready to do everything in our power to make Croatia better, and make life easier for Croatian citizens and minimum preservation of standards easier. There's no attempt to change anything seriously. You advertise this budget, forgive my words, but you represent it as a budget of solidarity, balance and stability. Solidarity because there's almost all the citizens we put our hands in their pockets again and we take 2 or 4% of them. From their net salary, I'm cutting direct wages. Balances, says the schedule between the economy and the social. So you know why employers as social partners accepted this budget? Because that's the way half of the salary is paid on black and this incursion of net wages is none of their business. No one has touched any measure or budget statement in the obligations of those employers. Let's go to... Stability, says public finances and the economic system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, public finances will remain stable until we spend this billion and a half of what we've spent out of citizens' pockets. It's in a few months, if not then, and then in the next budget, we're going to have financial dues again. And not because of the global crisis. Because of the global crisis, we're just not going to be able to get easy and cheap to cover our dues. Well, nothing has been spent or seems, nor plans to make a structural change in our problem. That's the problem. You couldn't have done that in the last 15 days. We could have done it all in that last budget and saved ourselves and the citizens and the state the cost and the irritation of this. Because nothing else has happened. You've been given time to create the impression that he's arguing with his partners and that the partners have supported it all. And look only at items such as the purchase of certain properties, the construction of transport infrastructure that can be less, because it can be pinched when public procurement would be placed under control, when corruption would be contained and the efficiency of subsidies would be increased. Intellectual and personal services, promotion and information services, representation, office material, office equipment and furniture, business facilities, road transport vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37673	Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37674	Investment in computer programs and the like. And you're going to see not 2 billion, but 4 billion on these administrative items you can only sting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37675	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote by esteemed colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37676	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to correct a colleague who said that no one in the line of the SDP is talking about reducing employees by 70,000 and that nobody in the SDP is talking about getting to the IMF. Well, you probably don't listen to them, pals, but they say that. Your colleagues right now, the ones sitting behind you. In the second row, they are saying that the IMF needs to come and that 70,000 workers, i.e. public service employees, should be fired. That's what it's for. No, we didn't bring them. It's known exactly how busy he is and when he was employed. And what you've been doing in your day and how much you've been cutting wages and how much you've reduced your rights, it's very good for Croatian citizens and for those who have received it in the official court. And the other thing you said to your colleague is that we don't control the cost. This government has reduced the deficit of the state budget below the level required under the Maastricht Agreement in the European Union, so below 3%. We wanted to enter the 2009 budget with 0% because we felt that there was a need to control the deficit of the state budget. You have offered solutions that would be a burden of over 16 billion kuna, which would certainly mean over 5% of the government's budget deficit. In spite of this situation which is not ideal and which is the result of the import crisis, we will end up with a budget of 2.8% within the criteria that the European Union has and many European Union countries do not have, they had to skip that criterion as we all call on Germany, it had to increase that deficit above 3%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37677	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of dear colleague Mario Habek. Here's your colleague, Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37678	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. This rebalancing, like the one ten days ago, still unfortunately has not led us to face real economic problems in this country. The crisis and recession are not seriously seen as seen through the past and what is seen through this budget rebalancing. It's like he doesn't see the problem or he doesn't want to see it at all. We have reached over 40 billion euros in external debt and a huge internal debt that is largely indivisible. The result, of course, was a strong drop in purchasing power, a drop in production back in the middle of last year, an increase in unemployment and GDP recorded a record drop of 6.7% in the first quarter of this year. Despite the alarming trends in late 2008 and early 2009, despite the experts' warnings, the right measures have been left behind to alleviate this crisis that we are now in. On the contrary. The government has denied Croatia and is in recession. The technical rebalancing at the beginning of this year was only an alibi for a new record debt of 750m euros, which the government has shown to the public as a very great success of the government. Here, and Sanader ran off with his head no matter what you're totally lost and you don't really know what to do next. This rebalancing is another proof that this government has no vision, no strategy or plan to resolve the economic crisis, how to resolve the social crisis, the state-run crisis, judicial reform, corruption and crime. Mrs. Kosor invites us to be together. In the past year and a half, we have given over twenty draft laws of various initiatives in which we from the SDP have also called for community, pointed to problems in the economy, offered solutions to preserve jobs, to increase production, to grow gross social product, to preserve social security. All of our initiatives have been ignored and claimed to be invalid, and as much as yours is worth proving the current situation we are in. We see our way out of this crisis in two ways. There is a need to reduce huge public consumption and, on the other hand, stimulate industrial production. It is not necessary to cut wages and pensions or tax them in order to solve accumulated problems. State and public spending must be taken into account in the real frameworks. This means leaving non-productive investments, infrastructure investments that do not give money back on short notice and that the state should only negotiate those obligations that it can pay and for which the funds are secured because the state must not be a source of liquidity. The budget must be sustainable, not cosmetical, but must be just, must be social. You can't always be punished in this country just by those who do something. Just 15 days ago, Governor Rohatinski made it clear and loud that it was not time for cosmetic budgets, that it was time for urgent and very concrete measures. They don't help any spins and wait for the crisis to go by itself like it's done so far. Out of the 15 billion kuna needed you cut into three rebalances this year 7 billion kuna and the burden of these cuttings of this government goes to the backs of workers, pensioners, children or schoolboys. They remove free textbooks, their free transportation is lifted. You really need to be congratulated on your determination, your courage. And it's no wonder that HDZ and their satellites because you've always hit the weakest and weakest. But that's why you increased intellectual services in 10 years from 126 million kuna to 1.3 billion kuna. Where's that money going? It's a huge amount of money that you haven't touched in this budget rebalance, but that's why you impose new taxes on workers and those who do something about it. Minister Shuker says the state's register is not empty, that pensions and salaries are paid neatly. So now I'm asking what we're doing here today, or in ten days, the second time the budget rebalance, what we're discussing here, and what other countries in the world are doing in ten days two budget rebalances and it's not in any financial crisis like you want to convince us. Investments in Croatia fell 60%, so we can say that at a time when investments fell 60% we certainly can't expect a quick and easy recovery. Let's remember and I'd like to remember a few experiments from this government, first of all the smoking ban law when Minister Milinovic cheered that the law would not give up at any cost, that no one would force him to do so. But here, a few days ago, he said that it could still change because the law is not a sacred cow. After that, there was a work Sunday experiment, we see how he ended up. The Constitutional Court has brought down this law and we can finally tell what kind of message it is for investors to pass such laws. They cannot rely on the Croatian legislative framework if the laws change every month as you do. But you won't be doing it much longer, we'll soon change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37679	Followed by colleague Ivan Bagarić. Here you go, colleague Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37680	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. So I think it's exactly what a colleague is now, with whom his colleague finished his debate, and those who didn't mean to speak in this way that I will speak in part, but I have to, and I hope that I will be brief and not deal with more important issues. So, I have a few words to say about the behavior of the opposition really today, so who was careful today in the assembly not to say analyst or observer, then he could conclude some very important things for me. Then a few words, and regarding the rebalancing of the state budget, about the future presidential candidates who have come here, and I will say something in general about the rebalancing of the state budget and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as an interested party to them in general, as well as the Republic of Croatia towards the part of its people in the world, and from the position in general, from general cooperation, but also from these general and global crises. So it is understandable that the opposition in Parliament thinks differently from the government, however, it is incomprehensible that a truly fierce campaign that has been going on all day today, which has actually been going on since the elections ended, so it is not just today but in general. So, the opposition exclusively runs a campaign that is understandable in front of voters and then you have a responsibility to your players, but the campaign in Parliament itself is as it was today all day long, it is personally incomprehensible to me. Mr. President of the biggest party asked the question of who is responsible for Croatia's reputation, so he spoke a lot about who is responsible for Croatia's reputation. I think it's the responsible and responsible opposition. It is very much responsible for Croatia's reputation, the responsible opposition. However, in this difficult and responsible I would say time, the time of responsibility all that we heard from the opposition today could come down from the shade of opposition calling for the election of a new one, so it would be an electoral slogan, and the musical background of that slogan could be, for example, a song of cricket. Because so far as the government is trying to find a solution we're constantly listening to opposition leaders say what they're not happy with, we haven't heard what they want yet, but they certainly know what they won't do. All he wants is a new election. I really don't see that with such demands the opposition has earned new elections and I hope there won't be any, because they would really be harmful, so I'm talking about early elections. When it comes to the presidential candidates here who have looked back and spoken from the position of the state budget and this rebalancing, it is interesting that one of them, indeed as always, complains and regrets about everything and would really be miserable to me if it were so and thank God that it is not. The other candidate has shown a great deal of understanding here for the most needed, however, and this is also worth respecting, but it would be even more appreciated if she had shown this at a time when she was in power and when that respect for others and people in the problem was missing. Now finally, let me say something about what I think is the center of this debate today, which is our budget rebalance. So even after this debate, when we listen to dear colleagues and colleagues from each other, that is, my colleagues from the opposition, then it turns out that we, that the Republic of Croatia really is the poorest country in the world, that this is one country in big, big problems, that Croatian families are also in big problems and that in fact, the immeasurable misery in which Croatia and Croats are in. Thank God it's really not like that. It's not like that, especially if we're taking on the most ordinary of those everyday parameters, which we can measure the state of one nation and then we know that if in one nation of four and a half million people there are almost 300 thousand registered skiers, then it's certainly not a poor and miserable people and I don't see any reason to send such messages. If we know that Croats have the best, I claim the best, health care and the cheapest pay in relation to everyone else, and if we have a health reform that is under way and we are not talking about health problems and debts of this time in health because we are successfully dealing with this problem, then it is certainly not happening in a country where poverty and disorder rule. There is almost no family in Croatia that has no specific real estate, one or one, like this and such. Let's look at what happens to others who get into crisis and how people end up on the streets and here I recently talked to a man, our man in Canada who tells me I had 150 workers last year, this year I have, at the beginning of the year I had 100 workers, now I have 60 workers. What are you talking about? So everywhere it's acceptable for people to be out of work in such situations, to get laid, to get paid, to fight for naked survival. So we're talking here just to protect ourselves, so we don't get into this situation, and thank God we didn't come and I don't believe we're not coming. Not to mention billions of savings in Croatian banks, not to mention cell phones, and imagine the cost of that luxury. That is the need, I agree, but it is almost the head of the population in Croatia that has one cell phone, about cars, about the ownership of an unprocessed agricultural land, etc. When it comes to the comparison that was discussed here today and which is very nice for our club president, so the comparison with the other in Europe, then we heard and saw what it was really like in our environment, here are some who do not want to compare, but if we look at it and what it is in Europe and anywhere in the world, then we see that Croatia is not at all on its knees. And speaking of this point of the agenda, that is, this question, and then my presidential candidates, which I was just talking about earlier, then I'm really proud that our presidential candidate here has spoken plainly, clearly and stepped in and acted like a leader who doesn't lose the battle, who says when we have a problem, which is the problem, but who gives solutions and offers solutions and who doesn't see any darkness at the bottom of the tunnel, but light. Therefore, my pleasure in this regard is great. So, with this rebalancing budget, extras for children, extras for maternity benefits are not touched, are not touched. All salaries and pensions up to three thousand kunas have not been touched and no one will be concerned. We've singled out support for the economy, support for agriculture. I don't see what the problem is. So if we approach the problem in a way that we can solve it, if we approach it in a way that increases it, that we fear this problem, that we step away from that problem, then the problem is big and visible. If in a situation like this you call a crisis and it's difficult, you call for new elections, it's also a problem. That the Croats are outside the Republic of Croatia, I believe that this is a category which is a great wealth in the context of the general diaspora in the world because also well-known institutes in the world that investigate the general diaspora because of some elements that occur in this new modern world see the diaspora in an entirely new context. The reason therefore is that the fall of "eager curtains", so much greater migration, much better communication among people in the world, so much greater investment in general, so on a global scale, and that is all the reason that migration in general, i.e. diaspora, is considered a great wealth. More than 400 billion dollars is believed to be the result of any evidence and other funds being sent and paid in front of the diaspora in the home countries in which they live. You can imagine what Croatia has at its disposal when it comes to Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, so I do not now think of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are a special people and a sovereign and constitutive people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I am talking about the Croatian diaspora in the right sense of the word, about Croatian national minorities, about Croats in emigration, etc. In this context, this government has announced that Croatia will adopt a law and strategy on Croats in the world, so that for the same money, but in a certain way, to re-establish certain services here will make stronger instruments of better integration and better networking and I believe that it will indeed be one new one, not to say a new business plan that will be networked, imported and that will contribute to the queen, therefore to its original country of Croatia, and that this cooperation will be mutual and that is a great, great source of opportunity for Croatia the next day. Here, therefore, my support for this rebalancing and my belief is that this government knows what it is doing and, in this difficult time, it is indeed the helms that guarantee it is also this rebalancing that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37681	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37682	Thank you. Comrade Bagaric, you said the opposition calls for new parliamentary elections. Dude, that's a minimum of decency in this crisis situation and the difficult situation we're in. We're bound to do this. It is therefore a parliamentary life in Croatia so that we can warn each other of failures, and the gaps were huge. A colleague, Bagaric, long before there was a recession in America and Europe, Croatia was in great difficulty. Take a look at the ratio of imports and exports in the last 10 years, see the external debt of Croatia in the last 10 years as it moves. Take a look at the last five years where people's dynamics have been employed in the state administration's professional services. 50,000 people, that's 10 grand every year being hired. For what? We knew that this year's one-off debt will only be 14 billion, that for the next 2 years over 6 billion a year we would have to pay and pay back the debt. We knew it would happen. So, come on, let's be straight with each other. There's a huge problem in front of all of us today. At least let's start talking in a way that is correct, that we are talking about the concrete possibilities of their solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37683	Thank you very much. My colleague, Dragica Zgrebec, reported for discussion. Here you go, fellow Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37684	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just a week ago, we were discussing budget rebalancing. At the time, it was said here that it was a budget of truth, facing a crisis, but now after only 14 days, we haven't actually heard anything new about the expenditure side and the structure of expenditure from the state budget. What did the Prime Minister actually say to us in the opening? She said exactly what she said 14 days ago. The crisis needs to be seen in the context of the global economic crisis, so we are still not ready to face our own crisis, our own problems, to see what the real causes of the crisis in Croatia are, that it is not only the global financial and economic crisis, that it is the structure of our production, that it is the neglect of industry, that it is life on credit, the consumption of credit, that it is a one-off import that has nothing to be financed from right now, and the result is then reduced revenues to the state budget, as a result of which are cancellations in the real sector. We fight here for every job in the state administration and the public sector, but at the same time we forget that tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs in the last eight months, that the unemployment rate from 12% has risen to 14.5%. What will it be by the end of the year when some employers tell us the first three months we worked for supplies, the second three months we used vacations, unpaid vacations, followed by cancellations? Now we still have some seasonal employees. What's it gonna be in 10, 11, 12 months? We haven't heard a word about it. The Prime Minister said we all need to understand the situation and participate in it. However, we will not all participate equally. We'll all be participating in that one percentage point of the larger VAT, someone with quite symbolic, it won't mean anything to him, for some it'll mean big problems. And when we look at what's new, new taxes are new. Almost nothing or symbolic happened on the expense side, a big deal should happen on the income side. And that rebalancing looks like a jar that goes on water a lot, leaves so long as it doesn't break, and now that it's finally broken, we're looking for a universal glue that's going to glue it. And what is this universal glue? That's exactly the tax, so the 1% point of the value added tax increase and the new one, that's the so-called crisis tax, and that's actually income tax. However, what are the effects of these two taxes? This budget plans to raise a billion and 250 million kuna by the end of the year. It wants to gather if it really would remain at the same level of consumption, however, regardless of the appeal, regardless of the talks and arrangements, traders will raise the price. Those who provide services will raise the price, not for that one percentage point for how much value added tax is raised, but for 2% or 3%, because it will include all its costs, reorientation of information programs, inventory. The crisis tax will actually reduce consumption, because it will reduce that, those who have so far paid everything, who have paid the price of the war the most, who have paid the most price of the transition, will pay the most and the price of the crisis. When I say it's symbolic and it's a glue that won't hold these cracks, then let's compare it this way. The salaries are now 22 billion in the budget, 34 billion in pensions. It's a month when we divide it into 12 months 4.6 billion, a little bit more. That's by the end of the year we'll gather just one third of these commitments in one month to settle. And next year, it's going to be less than once a month for wages and pensions. So what kind of effect is that at the state level, and what kind of blow is that to those citizens who are going to have to pay for these obligations? Let's take a family, a young family with two kids who have three grand each. So they will single out 120 kuna of this tax on 6 grand and two kunas. Out of six thousand and two kunas, they can't pay the minimum cost of life. If they're kids who go to school, will they have free textbooks? Will he have a free meal at school? Will he have a free ride? Probably not, because our criteria are that 3,000 kunas is a fortune and that you have to pay not only that basic income tax, but this crisis tax. That's what the Prime Minister said. The minister, as he had very little time left, began to tell us history, as if he were the Minister of History, not the Minister of Finance, and we don't really have anything to say about it. And what was to be said today? It was supposed to be said not how we're going to survive by the end of the year, but what we're going to do next year. And since we can't predict what's going to happen from month to month, and we don't even know what we're going to do in two weeks' budget, because this is an 8%, 6%, end up at 4 and 2%, and then we're still saying it's not the government's proposal, but she's accepted the social partners' proposal, those who might have lost 6% of the government's salary and those who don't care at all. The employers will not feel it, because it will be paid by the worker and the pensioner from their net salary, or pension. We haven't heard what's going to happen to state investments. We haven't heard how subsidies will be deployed tomorrow. I'll just say three examples. There's a lot of money invested in the shipbuilding, I guess, to get rid of it, to work. Now we're gonna sell shipyards for one kuna, but we're not sure we're gonna keep that activity. So, we've invested money so that we can have a shipyard, we don't know if those shipyards are going to be in ship construction tomorrow. What about the support in agriculture? The least of it is a farmer's benefit. The more we isolate, we have less production, more expensive prices, more prices and constant pressure on even more prices. Not because the peasants would like their product to be so expensive, but because their inputs, reproductive material, energy is enormously collected because of high taxes. What about public sector subsidies? We invest in the railways in the budget not because they have high wages, and lead to chaos in rail transport, but rather to improve rail infrastructure and transport quality. What's going on today in public enterprises, let's say they have enormous incomes. Mr. Maric here spoke about what was happening in that part of the economy, and I said I would rather hear that said by the Prime Minister, that the finance minister said and that they had taken certain measures. Now, from these stories and the praise of budgets and speaking, we have now solved the problem, this problem will arise not maybe in a month, but it will appear in two months. So what do we do? Are we going to raise the VAT rate again? Are we still going to raise taxes that we said we wouldn't raise? That's why it would be good for the current government to check these proposals in the elections and then get the legitimacy to run a policy like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37685	Thank you. A distinguished colleague colleague, Romana Jerkovic, also applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37686	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing an extremely important document that should give us an answer to the question of whether and when we will get out of the crisis. Many of this document were very much expected, and it was indeed, quite frankly, a very commendable statement by the prime minister that no one would be untouchable in this budget rebalancing. However, this budget rebalance shows who is always touching in this country and who will remain untouchable. Also, this budget rebalance shows, in my deep conviction, something else, which is that since the real struggle with the crisis in 2009 there will be nothing. That this year for a serious crisis struggle is actually lost. And finally continue with the same direction that led us to this state of the Croatian economy. Minister Shuker, you said four and a half weeks ago that Croatia's biggest problem is not budgetary revenues, but excessive, enormous expenditures, and we all thought in fact that with this claim you are announcing, I would say, one serious and radical struggle with the consumption of the state, aware that the Croatian economy here and such waste of the state simply can't follow. However, this rebalancing suggests that you have changed your mind again. We say it again, because let me remind you, and with the first rebalancing, you saved what, about 0.5, 0.6%. And the first cuts you made were where? In the education sector. So, just a month and a half before you practically started the school year, you managed to create chaos for both children and parents and schools and everyone. Is there anyone besides you in this country who thinks it was the right thing to do? You think there is, I mean except for you. What does this other rebalancing bear? This second rebalancing carries new taxes to burden a people who live badly anyway. A people who are overworked anyway. So, they're too small and these are our huge objections to this budget rebalancing, too little budget savings that this rebalancing brings, but that's why it brings big new burdens to citizens and workers and pensioners. Today, on several occasions, she tried to get through the thesis that this tax is not a burden for the poorest. Because those who earn less than 3,000 kuna a month or who have a pension of less than 3,000 kuna. What? I can sleep peacefully. Or they're fine, they live well. I don't know who could say that 3,000 kunas are enough for a decent life. And I wonder what we actually pretend to be as a society when we're trying to ignore what's more than obvious, which is that with three thousand kunas we can't live well. And here's to imagine a family where only one parent works and does it in some kind of chain of commerce and earns 3,000 and 100 kuna and has two children and has to buy textbooks to those children and has to pay the ride and has to pay the marenda and then still has to pay the tax to the state. So who has the right to ask a family who has a monthly income of 3,000 and 100 kuna to save the state? Is that the social state we're after? Minister, is it? I hope that's not the kind of social state we want. And I have to admit, I'm actually surprised by the prime minister. I'm surprised the Prime Minister was always supposed to be fighting right for the most vulnerable men. At the position she was in, the minister's position for six years said that these groups needed more money. And I can't imagine who managed to convince her to save on children, on parents, by not giving them free textbooks and transportation in this crisis. Who thinks we're gonna fight in a way that pensioners, that pensioners need to be cut off from pensions that are so hard to live, not to say they live. They're not anti-recession measures, they shouldn't be. In the end, even women with this new law and I won't miss the chance to mention the Law on Medical Insemination, who reduced the possibility of having children. What did we want to increase the GDP by making the Croats smaller? Well, I know, this remark seems a little daunting to you, but try to put yourself in the position of citizens who have to survive with three thousand and 100 kuna a month. I think the Croatian people are used to anything and if you ask him I believe he'd say he doesn't even remember time without a crisis. But the point is actually something else. The point is that the Croatian people didn't deserve this, not ministers. And I think somewhere you know that, too, that you're aware of that. You're introducing a tax on solidarity. I find that expression amazing. With whom or with whom the Croatian people, workers and pensioners should be solidarity. Now I might be rough again, don't mind, but I just have to say it. What to solidarity the Croatian people with? Missed economic policy? Well, you've been running that policy for years. If she's missed, it's your failures. So, can we say that we expect Croatian workers and pensioners to be solidarity with the missed economic policy that you have been leading for many years and that we have been warning you about for a very long time. Well, you see, it's not fair. I believe that Croatian citizenship is doing nothing but follow what we are talking about here. And I think I speak for them when I say, it's not fair to the Minister. It's just not fair for a number of reasons you've had a chance to hear today. It's not fair because you don't expect banks to be solidarity. It's not fair because you don't expect those who collect management contracts in state-owned companies to lose. It's not fair because you don't expect it from the owner of large capital. It's not fair because there's no extra profit tax. It's not fair for the sea reasons you've had many opportunities here today. And you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you. There's really nothing left for him in the end. I'll finish what I say. You're asking us to believe in this budget rebalance. You believe this rebalancing should be, you want us to believe that this rebalancing is coming out of the crisis. And we can't do that, we can't do that, because this rebalancing isn't and we can't because you don't believe this rebalancing either. Because if you did, you wouldn't announce a new rebalancing, but in the fall. You've announced the Ministers. Yes, it is. We at the SDP club know that a development step is needed. And for that developmental step, you need to be inexorable, and you need to be brave. But it is not the minister's courage to impose new taxes on Croatian citizens who live badly anyway and who are overly burdened anyway. That's not courage. You'd be brave if you ran out of the crisis through new development, through investment in production. What production? You don't know that, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37687	Next is debated by distinguished counterpart Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37688	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I wonder, as my colleagues, where this budget rebalance is targeted, or what the goal is. Budgeting, not anti-recession measures. This is savings but savings because there is no money and not savings and imposes to invest. Therefore, a second concept of this budget is necessary, and that is why I cannot accept it. The prime minister noted in her statement that in the preparation of the rebalancing, all the members were exposed to her pointing out to an unprecedented link, which the prime minister noted occasionally in a certain form of hate speech. And as he says, what's happening is totally unacceptable. However, I wonder and wonder how our citizens feel, how they feel when money was not well managed, their money. Croatia has no reserves today, and if the production of the budget is not launched it can be reduced to zero again in Croatia will not be better. Let us remember that the governor had already warned in 2007 about the excessive spending of the state and the coming debt crisis. Long before she broke out. And that's why, like my predecessors, I'm going to say that this is, of course, a global crisis so that it can be said that the crisis is a Croatian product. It seems that by this policy crisis there is no one else to pay but the poor and the question is who will pay, then the question is what does it get? In fact, if it is expected to be later, it will later be in favour of hiring and improving standards. It's one situation that's normally acceptable. However, if otherwise, it is certainly both socially and politically unacceptable. The situation is that employees are squirming in the fall of living standards and they will lose 5% of the salary and all receipts above 3,000 kuna. Thus, each month, it will come with a smaller home budget or with less resources for life. Instead of cutting costs, the pay is cut to pay those costs. This government was in charge of financing its waste and when no one wants to lend them loans, they turned to their own citizens. Crisis burdens have been introduced that are not intended for development, which would make it easier to fill the budget later. And I will join those who have declared that this is a harbinger. In addition to 2% they will pay 247 thousand pensioners and 4% will pay 43,000 pensioners. About a million employees of Croats will pay crisis charges to pay about 721 thousand people per rate of 2%, 4% of taxes will be paid by 310 thousand Croatian citizens. Normally, we can say that it is clear that Croatia is trapped in debt slavery. The public is serving lies, actually not to tell lies I'm going to tell false, haired and incorrect data. If you only remember the ex-prime guarantee card, there were pensioners, health care, youth, incentives, etc. Lots of nice things. I would be happy to believe what my colleague Bagaric said we live in Croatia in abundance, but Croatian citizens see a completely different picture. One verse says "a bird flies as long as there's at least a meter of sky" and for many no more, there's no such thing as that meter. Croatian citizens feel fear, show fear. Why? Because their backs are broken all the way before the war disaster, the conversion, the privatisation robbery, and now, of course, this situation. Citizens are fed up with hearing about enormous wealth from financial investment especially those who are completely unobstructed in fertilising money robbed in privatisation. That's what we call it, and that's what money laundering is usually called. This government has nothing to offer, no more loans that could be financed and a completely missed policy in recent years has shown that there is no hope that anything will improve in due course. I'll quote our prime minister. The situation is complex, but it's not critical because the government is doing everything it has to do, and it's doing it, and it's keeping it under control. Real intentions and activities, reforms will be seen and felt in the 2010 budget. That's what our Prime Minister said this morning in this High House. And citizens know with this kind of government the situation is more than critical. And I'm going to interpret another quote and it's like the good news that almost a million people are not going to pay for the crisis. So, colleagues and colleagues that people are too poor because they have 3,000 kunas, they can't boast of it or show it as good news. It's just confirmation that our people are poor. The wasteland has come toll, greed has created this poverty. And just one more word or a few sentences about the Peljesk Bridge, about the investment. Why? Because I come from that county and I know what it's like to get to Dubrovnik and I know what that investment means for our county, and I'm sure nobody on this side is against that investment. And I would be very happy that this investment is now possible because I would know that it is rich in Croatia, but I can't believe that it couldn't have been predicted that such a huge investment would be possible to carry out in a continuous course. And now I wonder, since this investment has been cut off, that it has to be preserved, I wonder how much the cost of preserving that investment is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37689	Thank you very much. Goran Beus Richembergh is a colleague who next applied for a hearing. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37690	If this budget rebalance were corrected in a book and the government had such literary affinities or perhaps ambitions, this is a genre of strange, they say the rebalancing proposal, but you could call yourself careful so that I remain innocent, part two. The rebalance of the budget we're talking about today is disappointing her for a number of reasons. First, because it doesn't come from the real causes of the crisis, and then it doesn't bother to remove it. Secondly, because it places the burden of the crisis on those who create a new value and live on their work, and on those who spend excessively. Thirdly, because it is clientelistic, because it is mostly targeted and it saves HDZ and HSS clients and fourthly, because it notes inability, unpreparedness, the government's fear of really dealing with real problems and of proposing radical solutions. This rebalancing has, therefore, several aspects and, first of all, something about deliberately overcoming the structure of the crisis or its elements. We like to call on ourselves, and this is now turning into an alibi, that the crisis in Croatia is actually a reflection of the global economic crisis. However, it is also clear at first sight that the crisis of the Croatian economy does not have many common points with the crisis of other countries, so-called. the new Europe, i.e. the transition countries, and in particular the Western hemisphere countries, because there the economic crisis was primarily based on the crisis of the financial sector, which, thanks to speculative maneuvers, ran out of capital, which was then transferred to the real sector and eventually the state had to save intervention and financial institutions, but also the fallen giants that lost... In Croatia, there is a completely different case, so we do not have a crisis in the financial sector because our banks, insurance houses, function quite well, even moreover, their interest rates are very high, rudely high, they abuse this situation, even moreover, our banks make high profits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only difficulty with the part of the financial funds is because they were on stock exchanges, and what we can recognize as a difficulty in the financial market is the lack of capital, but it culled among other things in the state because in several tranches it sucked all the cash that was on the market for its own debt. In the past six years, the government has been building in more than the same composition a village of Podokin, convincing us that the Republic of Croatia is extremely prosperous, quite ready for the European Union, that it has made significant progress in all its economic indicators, that it has structurally adapted and has prepared itself to this extent that there will be this crisis and it will pass or at least it will not feel that way with us. And the truth is that this crisis is somewhat weaker and later felt in Croatia alone and solely because our economy is not dominantly exportable and therefore, by closing foreign markets we were not directly affected by this measure as some other countries that depend entirely on exports. So the crisis in Croatia, unlike other countries, sits in the state or public sector. It was formed in it, in which the kidneys are now visible that in fact the government in six years has grown and grown fat, tusk, trom, an inefficient state that has grown to such proportions that it does not actually produce at all what it was created for, but even more so that its level of efficiency is below its level than ten years ago, when in those services the state worked 70 or 80 thousand people less. Well, it doesn't take 15, 20 days for us to talk in this House about what's-his-name. agencies that work for 25 people who manage to solve as many as 168 administrative cases in a year. In the meantime, the different letters of Barba Eve, Barba Luka, Barba Marka, and I don't know which place Mark opened up the space for this state administration to grow without the criteria of expertise, without valorizing the work. How many times in this House have I mentioned that I would like to see a minister or secretary of state informing us whether any state official who has worked on law-making has responded because the law has been returned three or four times to the procedure simply because it is not in line with the European acquis until the end. No one's ever had a hair fall off their heads, no one's salary has ever been taken from anyone because of the schlemper and the real damage done to the state. The state budget has become like Swiss cheese. It drills him who catches up with him, sucks out of him who gets here, and whoever he wants, somebody goes to gamble in Las Vegas in a state account, somebody non-transparently spends taxpayers' money in another way, through paraphonds, through public companies, going to a lot of millions without control, we don't have an efficient public procurement system, from a truck, so on, who knows what everything and how to get, by what criteria directly avoiding the law. We created a system in which people's substances are constantly sucked out without any control. Remember how much, I won't sit down, you sit down and rest. I have the right to speak and I will speak and you will not silence me. And if you don't have the patience to wait to say what I have to say, go ahead outside. Since the country has already drawn so many friends, acquaintances, relatives, so relatives and nettians to its mangers, it has been expected for the responsible government to say and now it is enough, to look in the mirror, to understand its failure and to say from today it will be different. But no, this government isn't capable of proposing, but what's going on? He's trying to suck people's pocket to the end and suck it out, drain it out a little dry dren States, but not safely touched by the state's consumption. So, this rebalancing like the last one actually didn't touch at all in the fact that the hydra state apparatus has grown, hydra public companies. So we haven't heard a single concrete plan within 3, 6, 9 or 12 months, how these things will be stabilised, rationalised, set up a programme for the release of technological surplus, the care of these people so that the administration can finally work in its normal gauges that correspond to one country and the fiscal capacities of Croatia as it is. In my day at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I attended meetings of a committee, and we had our own meeting room. Now there's six new officers sitting in that room and nobody knows what they're doing and they've all come in the last three years. And that's how it happens in other ministries. Simply, the government has no power against its clients and we have come to what they say in Dalmatia "the fines are Mare bali", it's over. Someone should tell the government and Mrs. Prime Minister, with this rebalancing she actually marked the beginning of the end of her government and that's good news in the sea of all the bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37691	Thank you. It's my colleague Zeljko Jovanovic's turn. Here you go. Just a little colleague Jovanovic. The promoter called, so go ahead, Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37692	Thank you very much. I apologize, I know what the agreement of clubs is, but many untruths simply cannot be left without an answer, and also all the participants in today's debate have been talking about how problematic the local administration is, how expensive it is, etc. So I will try to illustrate to you Mr Beus as a parliamentary representative and as a leader in the units of local self-government because the Croatian public should simply know, but before that a few data. It is simply incorrect that 70,000 people have been employed in Croatia over the past six years. Mr. Beus, it's not nice of you to talk. You have no argument for what you're saying. If you compare financial indicators, you can't say that. The other thing, I kept my mouth shut while you were talking. The other thing is, you're making it easy. And the third thing, you're the mayor of the city where, fortunately, you're no longer because the citizens told you that there was a lot of it, the only principal, here's the fellow, to look at the popular university in the Republic of Croatia who has a manager's contract that when he gets fired he has 12 salaries, signed Mr. Beus with one of his party colleagues, who he brought from Split. The other thing is, I'm free to say it. Well, look, Mr. Beus, you can say whatever you want, throw it out of the bench, that's the level of otherwise your political conversation, but this is all I'm going to say you can check with Mayor of the City of Velika Gorica. The second thing, you hired a convicted drug dealer in Slovenia in a youth club to create a program of young people in Velikogorica, and you can also check it out. Everything I'm saying can be checked. City administration in Velika Gorica in 4 years with 70 employees increased to 100. City utility, purity from about 60 to 100 and something else. As a result, the increase in municipal services is actually a waste of 600%. That's as much as I could count forever. I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, anyone interested in this, can check with the city administration. The other thing is, we say we're legal, we respect the laws. Because of the fact that there is no situation in the transfer of power, that those who come after that create obligations with which they will have problems, we think even by consensus in this House we have passed a Law on the takeover of power where it is clearly said that from the moment of the election of power that is at that moment in power is the technical authority, it cannot sign obligations for the next period of more than a million kuna. Mr. Beus sits on the press along with his coalition company, sign the day before the election silence contract on 17 million kuna and create commitments to the city of Velika Gorica for 17 million kuna. When journalists ask them why you're doing it, who can stop us from doing it? In this House we keep giving some lessons, so let's give and live on what we're talking about. And I repeat, Mr. Beus, what I said, I'm a responsible man, and for too long in politics to deal with insinuation, I can get all the MPs, all the media to check out in Big Gorica City, after all, that's what the mayor is going to publish, I repeat, for the simple reason we're all here saying that local self-government is too expensive for us and I think that if there's anything in this House we agree on, we agree on. But on the one hand, we can't talk about making up 60 thousand people in Croatia, and that's simply not true. At the same time, you've shoved your party friends into every possible and impossible utility. I repeat, you can think of yourself as the principal of a mere university, which is the manager who has 70, 80% of the salary from the city budget age the manager's contract to have a salary of 12 months. And then these same people who sign it, and not to mention that their closest family members and members of that monitoring board are giving them lessons and spit all the time at each other. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the left and on the right. Any quote I've said you can check with the mayor of Velika Gorica, and Mr. Beus all this information he's provided here can't confirm with anything, because they're simply untrue.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37693	Thank you. Correction of the quote, Mr. Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37694	It is my duty to correct the inaccuracy of the person who has threatened to destroy me and my family three times so far. First of all, what kind of manager's contract that pays at seven thousand kuna? Second, do you know Mr. Minister what a manager's contract is? That's what you should have learned about the elements of his. So it has nothing to do with that. And as for any signing of the contract, you have all the wrong information. What some of them told you, they told you, if that's what you're building your credibility as a minister, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, And secondly, your personal impatience for me cannot endure even here in the House, so you have to bother all people with what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37695	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37696	What's your problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37697	We're leaving Velika Gorica again, we're going to Zagreb again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37698	We're not gonna give you Big Gore that easy. You've sucked enough of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37699	Don't insult each other, gentlemen. We're going back to Zagreb. ... Minister, calm down, Mr. Representative. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Calm down. We're going back to Zagreb. Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37700	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'm in my debates rarely say colleagues especially from HDZ too rough, but I want to say at the very beginning that with President Luka Bebić and Vice President of Mr. Seks's Parliament, I am the only representative sitting in these benches since 90th, '92. when they made all the decisions that allowed Croatia to be independent, and after which I spent a year in the lyrical trenches as a Croatian defender and therefore I believe that I have the right to be rude, because Croatia as we live today is not the kind of Croatia I imagined while together with 95% of the Rijekas who responded... The invitations, the biggest response in Croatia, were in lyrical trenches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're asking themselves, "Dr. Šimac-Bonačić and Romana Jerkovic where is our rebalancing focus? So they don't see where he's headed. Well, fellow Members, it's aimed at preserving the chair of the current government. That's the only goal this budget has. Mr. Shuker says it's not true that 50,000 people have been employed in public administration since 2003. Here is an analysis by the World Bank for Croatia, page 126, Chapter 6 of point 10, says: "A large amount of salary mass reflects a large number of public sector employees, not high wages. It is indicative that 4.9% of the population employed by civil administration is more than 60% more than the 3% in Europe, as there are between 260 and 270 thousand employees, the general government sector represents more than 15% of the workforce and is the largest employer in the country. In this number, no additional 73,000 employees in 20 strategic state-owned enterprises and thousands of employees of companies and majority state-owned companies belonging to the Croatian Privatisation Fund's portfolio are included. Taking into account that, the total number of public sector employees would be more than 20% of Croatian labour force. In 2003, at the end of the coalition government the total salary amount, as I have already said several times today, amounted to 14 billion kuna per month. Today it's 24 billion a year. Therefore, it shows that the number of employees has increased. Whether it's 40, 50 or 60 thousand doesn't know anyone, so neither does the new minister of state, because the prime minister says there will be an analysis of the state administration sector even though the analysis has already been made. In 2008, this analysis was made and it is clear what state administration in Croatia is like. Following a political circus run by former Prime Minister Sanader, Croatia became a country in which citizens are trying rabbits, testing recipes from HDZ's kitchen, led by Prime Minister Kosor and Minister Milinovic, HDZ president and her deputy. Such a government makes laws with mistakes, laws with a limited duration, why the Constitutional Court has to repeal any law so much. These are laws with absurd provisions that are harmful, which are not only financial, but also general social. I said and I'll repeat today, it's the government's continuity of incompetence. She continues where Ivo left off. That's what the Prime Minister said, where Ivo came from. Without any excessive visions or strategies, the missed laws continue to be passed, to repeat once again, the Law on Medical Insemination, the Law on Schoolship, textbooks, and the latest announcement of the Law on Local Self-Government. Decisions that last and need to determine fate for Croatia changed every 8 hours. If Friday wasn't the legal time limit for rebalancing to be sent to this assembly, I assure you that they would get two more times, four times 23 different legislative proposals. Dear colleagues and colleagues, our trip from banana to bankruptcy took seven months. The government that led us to bankruptcy has no moral right, but unfortunately to forget even that normal right, there is no expertise, no determination, no competence to save us from bankruptcy. And then it leads to getting out of the crisis. Whether it's Ivo or the Adriatic, it's completely irrelevant. It's the government's fault. This is how the government doesn't know, can't and won't do anything to make Croatian citizens live better. The proposals in the rebalancing that we have today are proposals that will allow for the decline of production, the boom of the gray economy, the closure of jobs. Croatian citizens in numerous polls, which you can see on various portals, from a two-thirds majority to almost 90% say the government's resignation is the only way out of the crisis. What's the budget for? In the budget rebalancing, state spending has been reduced by only 170 million kuna. From the great promises of 3 billion to be cut, it gave up fear, indecision, cowardice. Is that something new? Well, it's not. The cowardly escapes the former prime minister. A special story is corruption. Here's a famous warranty card, remember what it looked like. And why doesn't this government have the moral right to solve the crisis? Because it says here, we guarantee Croatia tax cuts, economic growth, employment growth and standards growth. You didn't make any of that happen. You say this proposal for budget rebalancing is a proposal for solidarity that allows all citizens to be equally responsible. Well, here's not to say I didn't say that. There's no justice for everything. As long as you want to receive workers, clerks and pensioners, the luxury tax will only be paid by fools. Tax will pay only one who registers the yacht in his name, because when a company buys a yacht not only does not pay a luxury tax, but does not pay a VAT. So who's gonna register in their name. I said corruption is a special problem. Corruption again quotes the European Commission "became part of political culture in Croatia". Political culture in Croatia determines the ruling party at the moment. The government led by the former prime minister whose origins from real estate to watches, art paintings, were never clarified, continued to lead Croatia in the same composition. It's an amazing number of affairs that have been revealed in recent days. Is it HAC, is it HZ, is it HEP, is it about obtaining office material that's been annulled? Everything cancels out, everything. So, the Dubrovnik-Doli 46 billion kuna road is an accepted offer, 13 million more expensive than the one that was the second offer. The latest affair of dear colleagues and colleagues was three offers. The most expensive supply of funds that led to a disaster in HZ and this latest accident where people died has been accepted. The most expensive was accepted by a company that has never done such a job. That's true. In the 10 largest anti-corruption affairs in Croatia, 166 people were arrested and blamed from which as many as 74 were paid out of the state budget. The European Commission's assessment in 2005 of organised crime and mafia in Croatia cost 500 000 euros in the economy, while economic criminals provided 170m euros. At a meeting of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, an absurd that I didn't believe could happen. Mr. Calmete's ministry is not at all the bearers of the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. No state-owned company in Minister Kalmeta's portfolio has an action plan to curb corruption. So that's why all these affairs we're having happen. And finally, at a meeting of the National Council for the Prevention of Corruption, the newly appointed Director of Police says, the National Police Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the foundation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy in Croatia, cannot function at all because the 50 million kunas that were to be secured in the budget are not provided for it. I call upon you to secure them in this rebalancing. 300 thousand kunas that needed to secure a direct link between the police database and the UKSOK are not secured. So 300 thousand kunas couldn't be ensured that they had a direct connection between the databases and that USKOK could explore the databases of the MUP. So, I conclude, that's really enough. As citizens say, the only solution for Croatia is for all Croatian citizens new elections. So if the citizens and then support you, then it'll be your victory, but I don't think that can happen anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37701	Thank you very much. Representative Luke Denon, next up. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37702	Mr. Minister, I was a 10-year deputy mayor and in three years of my last term, the audit said that me doing business in the county was an unconditional solution we got. So it wouldn't have turned out if something in the county wasn't good. And my county isn't too expensive, so we're not going back to these local topics. Today I heard something that every time amazes me or surprises me this old woman at this age, when a member of the ruling coalition behind this parliamentary pay phone for the second time in the vote or the proposal of this rebalancing party said that this ruling majority was to blame for the fact that the rebalancing and the situation in the country took place. Your colleague of HSLS said we spent like drunk millionaires, we spent nothing, we spent nothing. We didn't do anything. So I can't believe someone who thinks and talks like that. When laws come that should do better in this Croatia, raise your hand again as if nothing had happened. That seems to me, maybe it was the afternoon, maybe some people were watching. But I'm really sorry to be so hypocritical. I say this side is guilty, because it's six years in power and six years of course you've made a mistake and of course you've brought us into this situation with the world crisis that you've been in. And that once must be clear. I'm sure it wasn't this side that didn't get the chance. But what little opportunity we had when we warned you that the crisis was coming, so it took a long time to deal with the gravity of this economic crisis, that is, the economic situation. And unfortunately too late to then the measures that we needed a year ago, to amortize this crisis, we're trying to do it one way through the third rebalancing. What does the rebalancing mean? The main reduction in this deficit is to strengthen the revenue side by new tax duties. I agree. Even that would be good if what I believed the prime minister would do was realized. Because the prime minister kept saying that perhaps you are determined to do in this rebalancing painful cuts. This time it only hurt the poor, no one else. I expected it to hurt those rainbows. But I feel sorry for that poor girl because they're the only ones who hurt. A little more determination was needed to make this rebalancing right. Minister, because we're gonna need another one again before the end of the year. It's already likely that's the way it's going to be. And the prime minister said we did everything we could. I don't think we did everything we could because we forgot the other part. The prime minister also said, it seems to me that my colleague quoted one sentence, that we are doing all of this, what we have done, we are determined to sort it out in some way, for the simple reason of one and only Croatia. Unfortunately, the prime minister, unfortunately, we also do not have one and only Croatia, but we have two Croatians. We have one poor, patient, humiliated Croatia and we have one another, quite another rich, arrogant, deverted and the other Croatia does not refer to this rebalancing, only that little poor, humiliated and patient one. We will see how long this patience and such Croatia, which is humiliated at this time, will last. Why are we afraid to do other rough cuts that would touch where there's money because you won't tell me that in 3,000 kunas and over 3,000 kunas there's a lot of money. There is other money somewhere else, but it should do these painful cuts in that rich, deverified and other bazaar Croatia, and obviously we don't have the strength to do such cuts in such a Croatia, and a tax on extra profit, perhaps on property, on capital gains we're just writing about, but there's obviously no courage to face a difficult economic crisis, and we're going to put it on that rich Croatia. But when we hear and even all of us politicians if we can call ourselves politicians then when we look at what someone far across the sea is doing, we say that here's a young, new face, one Obama does or tries to do a lot of things not only for America but also for the whole world, but he says very simply in a country where there aren't nearly half of the people social security, he's decided that as much as it costs to pass a law that's going to be called a tax on the rich at the cost of being called a socialist, at the cost of being called a communist tomorrow, but he does it. But there's no courage in that tax on the rich, because that's what it says, that we only protect the rich. I'm not sure the people sitting here on my left are all those who protect those rich. You know, on Friday you will raise your hand for this rebalancing where the greatest burden will be borne by pensioners and employees who have 33.5 thousand, 4 thousand kuna, you will raise your hand on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but be sure you will not lose yourself in that amorphous mass most who raised their hand. Somewhere in 10, 15, 20 years, there will be some wise, or wise, or young historians who will write down those people who have raised their hand for such a bad rebalancing, someone will write it down. ... Maybe your grandkids were saying your grandfathers raised the wrong hand in the wrong place at the time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But, Mr. Minister, I can ask you a question. I may not know everything but I can see it's a crisis. I'd like to ask you who he's referring to, forgive me for this word, this imposition, so I'm going to call him so I don't say anything else. Do all citizens, all citizens of Croatia? So this tax, any way you want it to apply to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia? ... Yeah, well, as far as I don't know, I'd also ask if this general imposition applies to all citizens or citizens of Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because if so, I would also like to know whether then those who have the right to vote as citizens of the Republic of Croatia and from this expenditure side get some coins in solidarity will also have 2%, 4% of taxes on their incomes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it would be correct if they paid for it in solidarity because they have the right to vote and vote. And when there's a crisis, it must be a crisis for them, too, because from that expenditure part of the budget, they get the money they need to get. But it might be a good idea for them to pay that tax when they already have the right to vote. And forgive me in the end, let me just read something that says in my "New List" on today. I cut it, it was yesterday. On yesterday, 1574, Ilija Gregoric, one of the main leaders of the Peasant Rebellion in 1573, was executed after in vain complaining to the Emperor and the Ban of the Nobility, the peasants stopped paying unreasonable taxes in protest. So one of the worst nobles, Franjo Tahi, sent his armed mercenaries, but the peasants with weapons were ready to welcome them. Because of this resistance, the Croatian Parliament declared the peasants a traitor to the homeland, which they responded to as a general uprising against the feudal masters. Every similarity is intended because so many taxes and burdens must be rebelled. I do not ask and I do not want an armed uprising to rise, not a peasant but a Croatian rebellion, but a 21st century appropriate, I think that it should go to early elections to respond to these accusations that you impose on us with this budget rebalancing, so that in these early elections, this oppressed people will say what they want, whether Franjo Tahia wants or wants some other freedom of Matija Gupca.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37703	Thank you very much. Well, we had three months ago, the Tachys were in action, they didn't pass. Let's take it one step further. ... We've got some old-school taxes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I had them from Zlatar today, and people came across a budget of 9 million and 30 million. I can send you their papers, so you see. Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37704	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The first thing a man has to ask is who's to blame for this situation in this country right now. 20 days ago, Croatia was not in trouble, as the former prime minister claimed, many ministers claimed. Today they say that these same people are falling apart, there's no pay, there's no pension. And what's worse, they were wrong yesterday, but they're right today. We who spoke, gentlemen, don't you see what's going on around us were declared a blubber, we were champions of Croatian nonsense, we were stopped by ministers, by MPs, so you're an eternal pessimist, you're this, you're the one. But whether I'm pessimistic or not, whether it's a blecimeter or not Caine's hit, it's not a hit, but we all saw that the deficit will be at least 15 billion kuna, and if the gross social product is minus 6.7% unfortunately and 20 billion kuna. And that means that we will no longer be able to service public debt and that there will be not one but at least two salaries in 2010. These gentlemen decreases first 6%, now +2, +4% and +1% of VAT are currently leading to this. We'll lose at least one and a half wages next year, and most likely it'll be two salaries. At the annual level, a two-member family that works or a four-member will lose at least 20 thousand kuna. Then there is a clear question of who is guilty of such a situation in Croatia. I claim that such a situation is not the fault of the County of Istria, that it is not the Istrians' fault, I claim that it is not the Istrian policy. If that is the situation of Istrian politics, then nothing, you arrest us gentlemen. If it's the former government, Racan, that I'm not now, that I'm not exaggerating, then we're arresting them too. If they're not the wrong people in the former government, then the question is, gentlemen, who's to blame? I'm not kidding or come on, when I say either the Istrians are going to save Croatia right now to help Istria or we're all going to hell. Indeed, after and after some of the performers, we must say that this nation can choose either estrianisation or chavogation. Could anyone in this country have suspected, if the former prime minister of the party came in a double-crossing manner, let's remember those elections within the HDZ in 2000, if anyone could think that he could leave the government in a different way. What's an exorcism? It's working, it's working, it's working. What's all this chavog? When someone from some gatherings threatens us, it's about nothing. Spend, sing, live from distribution and... However, this should one day come to an end in this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will repeat for the second time today, Istria per capital per capita has the largest export in the Republic of Croatia. Those who think it's possible to achieve it in this country overnight are also very wrong. To come to me, for example. to one factory you first need to attract certain capital in the Republic of Croatia, then it takes four, five years to realize if someone loses the will to build and build something here. Recently, I was told by the director of "Uljanika", Mr. Carlo Radolovic, that from the moment the first ship was baptized there in 1860 or 1870, a decision was made on the construction of the Pula "Arsenal" or today's "Uljanika", until the moment that the first ship had been baptized was not two years, and that today in two years in one Pula or anywhere in Croatia where you can't reach any decent catastrian measurements. Istria, I say, felt the crisis of this world economy first in Croatia. Why? Because we have the largest export per capital, i.e. the largest part of our economy plus tourism is facing the European market, but today the world market is recovering. On the other hand, the Croatian market is sinking. I was also saying that exporters will start to recover first, they are now being saved, but those who work for the Croatian market will sink you in, say, a year and a half, and that's just in progress right now. I am, however, afraid of what will happen to that small sector, craftsmen, craftsmen, merchants and the like. I'm following events in... in Buzet, they have 1% of Croatian exports, they are recovering, TDR has the same 1% of Croatian exports, they always do the same,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are 0.3% of Croatian exports, working never better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One "Rockwool" for example. 0.5% of Croatian exports, each day exports from the 50 truck factory, 49 trucks heading west, one truck stays on the Croatian market. Okay, I also agree that the full location is where they are building and that everything should be done to protect this local population, but they have 0.5% of Croatian exports. One Oilman has 4% of Croatian exports, works great in 2009, will end up with 100 million dollars more exports than last year. That "Oliary" and that's why I've been waiting all night even though I spoke in the morning, it doesn't cost the state a single kuna. Based on the guarantees, the state doesn't give him a single kuna, and I keep asking myself why this shipyard privatizes. Other shipyards in Croatia, I am unfortunately convinced, I would like to be wrong, will end up in bankruptcy. But also to say that we are like the City of Pula, County of Istria in '98. For years, we signed the claims we had on the Oilman at the height of one pulse budget. Who else in Croatia did this to our coastal cities? Absolutely no one. We had to resuscitate the Istrian Bank ourselves. Which is, too, a man can ask himself a question, a local self-government did. Not one. We intervened in companies that employ thousands and thousands of jobs and so did outside of Istria no one unfortunately worked. Which, on the other hand, Istri returns from the budget, you know, I dare say almost nothing. On Thursday morning, I spoke on the phone for a long time, maybe an hour with Mr. Karl Radolovic, and he tells me about the following, no boat orders. Okay, I said I know that without you telling me, so do I. But I'm saying, in 2009, we're sure to work well, but without, now we're coming to, privatization through the Croatian consortium of our shipowners, we won't have a job in 2011, and after that, if we survive there in '11, '12. The market in the world is likely to stabilize. I'm against this privatisation, but I respect Mr. Radolovic too much to go against it, but I call on the government not to play with the maritime good and that privatisation, if it has to be, against which I am personally, is done according to the model "The Oilman". One mistake, Croatia will run out of 4% of exports, one mistake Pula will run out of Oils, one mistake Istria will lose its symbol. Second, also help gentlemen "3. May" to realize the construction of these four tankers, tankers plus "Oliary" sailing, although in Pula and Zadar it would prefer not to happen. You know very well how the salaries paid off in "3." May in the last month, and the privatisation model "3." Maya" etc. Trogir, "Brodosplita," clearly doesn't hold water. What is clear to all of us, that this shipbuilding Croatian state has cost a lot of money, in 10 years almost 20 billion kuna and agriculture cost 30 billion kunas to the Croatian state, it is true and it can be saved, I am talking about this Slavonic agriculture, our village, on one condition only, to meet a differentiated VAT rate for domestic food. Everything else, I'm afraid, runs a simple coat. When the First Minister, the prime minister called me today that I said I was 24% VAT, I said yes, but provided that food, energy, etc. We are taxing 10% and normally prolonging VAT payment deadlines from 30 to 60 days, i.e. from 8 to 60 days. All in all, we missed the opportunity to deal with this crisis, I think today all countries, many countries in our environment stand better than the Republic of Croatia. Montenegro, for example, has doubled pensions twice this year. First times 3%, now seven days ago almost 3%, that's about 6.7%. Where are we? We're shrinking by so much as receiving... /The speaker's off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37705	Okay. Thank you. It's been chirping for a long time. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37706	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. What is the government's relationship to this Croatian Parliament and this budget rebalancing tells the situation here today that we found. The prime minister and all the vice presidents and all the ministers except Minister Shuker said what was going on and they left nicely because they didn't have any more time. They didn't even need to hear what the representatives' clubs were going to say about this budget rebalancing. The prime minister even said, she apologized that she couldn't stay because she called meetings for today, as if she didn't know there was going to be a budget rebalancing debate here today. When talking in government with anyone, there said the prime minister that she and all the vice-presidents of the government were when they discussed the budget rebalancing only Minister Shuker left here to stand by and listen to all our remarks, all our proposals, all our criticisms, but even he no longer needs to enter the discussion with us, but he responds once or two at 12 or 14 hours of debate. About this budget rebalance looks like let's go split it up there and do nice work on our own. That's how this budget was made. We'll open a dialogue, we'll talk, but we'll talk to empty chairs. We have no one to make our proposal. We can discuss really accounting or accounting or budgetary only the items, but the budget is not a figure statement, the budget is a basic document of economic policy in one year and it would be really correct if someone wanted to listen to representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, there's no one to hear us. That's what this budget rebalancing looks like, so today we're competing on who knows or what kind of data he has. I was simply fascinated by how detailed Minister Schuker knows the situation in Velika Gorica. But Minister, I expected you at least so much to know the situation in HEP and to say if it's true that HEP has a billion and 300 million kuna problems. Is it really true that we were buying electricity for 85 euros and selling 22? How many management contracts are there? What kind of cars there are bought and who has the right and how to drive them... I would like to know if, as you know Gorica, you know the Croatian forests and finally explain to us what was so complicated about the management of the Croatian forests that since 2003 when one member of the administration today has five members of the administration? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What increased the forest? They've grown? And then we bought all these members of the administration Passate new last year because the Passats can be visited very nicely by Croatian forests. That's one famous SUV. It would be interesting for me if you knew the situation as in Gorica, for example, to answer why, with so much uninvolved, inactive state property that is falling apart, we're devoting nearly 500 million kuna to rent a business space? Why can't we rationalize the office and other premises to reduce the need for rent? Why can't we activate the property, adapt it and place some state and public services in those areas? Not only would they reduce the rent, but they would probably reduce all the other costs we have, such as transport costs, communications costs, staff costs, etc., etc. Because instead of the government having a single contract with HT based on a public tender, each ministry has special contracts and communications between ministries are charged, and instead of all in one single network. Now, I would really have understood and perhaps I could think about introducing some new revenue if there were no data that says that this government was an absolute consumer of non-productive items in 6 years. And they say the following. Intellectual and personal services increased 10 times from 126 million to 211 thousand kuna to a billion and 300 million. What is so important and valuable that intellectual services must be paid this year for a billion and 300 million? Last year, when we received 2.5 billion kunas in the state budget, intellectual services increased by 35%. The team increased by 3 times in 10 years. The promotion and information services increased by 3 times in 10 years. If we could just bring it down to real life on a one-year-old level, we wouldn't have to run a hack. If we had acted rationally over the past six years, not that we wouldn't have to introduce a hack, but today we'd have 5 billion kunas less deficit. And we need to talk about it today. Not that there's no indication that he wants to save himself, but the only clue that comes from this rebalancing is that we need more money. Not for pensions and wages, we need money for information and promotion, we need money for rents, we need money for office furniture, we need money for computer equipment, we need money for representation, we need money for cars, because it's not true that what was bought is not to buy anything anymore. It remained a significant item until the end of the years for the purchase of means of transport, etc., etc. It's one thing that's quite enough to determine that if we have a problem with managing state property that we don't get income from public companies that we're supposed to make, that's why we're introducing a hack. Another reason is because we spend a billion and a half kuna where we don't have to or at least without what we could do in this crisis. We don't need advertising to convince us that we live better than we really do. Let's do it. That's another reason, that's another billion and a half on which we can pinch. Therefore, the introduction of harac is only because we do not know how to manage costs, and then of course we need additional income. But I expected at least some vision from this budget. We have a problem. We have a problem that only in the first month we had more exports than the imports of agricultural products because we exported tuna. All the other months we're more importing agricultural and food products than we're exporting, and we're asking what the Food Agency is doing to us, because for the Food Agency to do something, I assure you that we would ensure that at least agricultural vegetables and fruit will be able to sell our farmers. And then we have another export problem. We need to help our exporters, we need to open the door for them, we need to encourage them, but what are we doing? We are reducing the export incentive item by 19 million kuna. We are reducing the restructuring and development of individual industries by 50%. The increase in competitiveness of the Croatian industry is down 40%. So what do we really want? Do we really just want to push this moment a little deeper into the citizens' pocket and that poor, in a month's time even deeper, in a month's time, where is the end of this hand-to-hand thing in your pocket? Unfortunately, I was convinced that we had reached the bottom, and then this government successfully made one bigger hole at that bottom. No one in this House has a mandate to raise the tax increase or to introduce new taxes. For that mandate, we must demand the trust of the citizens. That's why I think it would be most honest to call the election, and let the citizens decide whether or not they want to be able and responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37707	There's a will that's already been made. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37708	Thank you, Vice President. And here we are in July with this year's third budget rebalance. It should not be believed that it will be the last of this year's budget rebalances, as state finances are now and clearly a sinking ship. By ruling it as a rebalancing of truth, by wanting to suggest that we must look the truth into the eyes and make peace with paying the accumulated debts of the state, but the truth is that because of our six-year inability and this rebalance of the HDZ budget and satellites want to turn us into hostages and hostages of their irresponsibility. With its policy, which consisted mostly of the purchase of voters' clients, which led to a large majority of Croatian citizens and citizens in a fast-hungry relationship, the HDZ has crushed the state in the current financial and economic abyss, and today the government expects that because of this purchase of customers, someone else will plant their backs and cut the Gordian node in which state finances have been involved for years. The HDZ, coming to power, is a commitment to serve, and that includes both the kind of political responsibility and seriousness, or as you claim the truth yourself, which means having the guts to pull the necessary cuts and the vast majority of Croatian citizens, i.e. to release this addictive relationship with the state in which HDZ has deliberately brought them, led solely by its own politically interested financial interest, and this is what this budget rebalancing does not see anywhere. And that is why this rebalancing is not contrary to the announcements of the Prime Minister's rebalancing of truth, but to the rebalancing of deception. Instead of cutting the unsustainable and unwarranted costs of the state, which would be the fact that not so few Croatian citizens and citizens, reduced to an addictive attitude towards the state, are reaching for additional imposing and tax burdens which are also short-term, but even more long-term domestic economy, I am afraid is being irretrievably ruined. And that's nothing but cutting off a thin and fragile branch we've been sitting on for years. If this account is also an amazing indifference, i.e. the generally accepted non-payment of accounts or extremely large delays in the payment of accounts by the state, state-owned companies, but also large trade chains, then we have very, very much reason to fear. The state, i.e. HDZ, does absolutely nothing to ensure that the necessary legal measures do not prevent the failure to pay an account as a normal mode of the operand of business, i.e. in this case it does not follow the example of many European countries which, in fear of sinking, have shortened their time-limits to 30 days. I believe that this would greatly facilitate the difficult conditions of our business, unfortunately, few economic operators. Our economy would no doubt be helped if the government finally announced what kind of strategy Croatia is, whether we are developing or trying to develop in the direction of a country that truly encourages a specific branch of the economy or two or three industries. Unfortunately, this is not the case, because such a strategic economic commitment to the state would eventually, except in the text of many strategies, be seen from the state budget and from concrete measures to encourage or subsidise certain economic branches, i.e. the destimulation of some other industries, for which we have been sinking for years and which we should not really have on the list of priorities. In fact, if we look at why many developed countries of the world are rich, we will see that this is not because they have developed 50 economic branches, but about two to three industries, and on these branches they position their development and international visibility. The government’s clear direction of future development would surely have long been expected to signal economies in which industries, preferably those with high added value, would be able to target their resources and efforts, and this would certainly have a positive impact on employment growth. This is not any discovery of hot water, as similar measures are used by many developed countries of the world that are considering the economic potential of developing their countries, and thus direct future development towards some economic branches. In this regard, in recent times many developed countries of the world have positioned their development towards those economic practices that are considered sustainable. And that is, first of all, in the direction of renewable energy sources, because they have calculated that many benefits come from encouraging these forms of energy. From decentralised development, energy security, relying on power and energy sources, fostering new and higher technologies of development and science, hiring more people and finally protecting resources. What countries are these? These are the United States, Great Britain, Denmark, Germany and other developed countries of the European Union, but not Croatia. That Croatia is not in this round of states is particularly eloquent in the proposal for an energy strategy that plans to exploit and a third of the potential of renewable energy sources, in line with the research of these potentials by the Croatian Fire Institute. Even though there's a lot of talk in the world today about so-called. a new green agreement, i.e. on "new green trade", as a model of exit from the crisis in Croatia, except for the non-governmental sector, there is no question. And this only adds to the fact that the Croatian government is disoriented without any vision, limited by its particular notion of Croatia as exclusively of HDZ's linen. Unfortunately preserved in its ancient not 20th century, but in the 19th century, both economic and general social attitudes. Such a government is unfortunately not able to rule differently but with the current modus operandi, which is most visible from this third budget rebalancing. It is not ready to question the current model of governance, which comes down to naked clientelism, is not ready for internal development and learning in its mistakes or even better in other people's mistakes, successes and good solutions. This rebalance of the budget not only did it not seek to encourage budget filling with very concrete strategic economic measures, but it appears to be new commitments that will eventually ruin the already structurally heated Croatian economy. Instead of cutting with sharp scissors, fat budget expenditures, because without these measures simply threatens to break, the government is still comfortable in the captain's chair, a ship called Croatia directed to the very center of the black hole. The depth of this crisis is unfortunately much deeper than we think it is, because HDZ has, as an extremely dangerous virus, infected many structures of society that have become normal, and political elites are not contrary to the general public's widespread view of such a structure, and even desirable to receive money by doing nothing or at least not doing enough. So the general spread of Croatian mentality can be recognized by the very frequent criticism of insufficient social givings with a cry, and what Croatia has given me. Unfortunately, so do we. We ask the political elites and we live well at the expense of the budget, and what have we given Croatia? So we cannot expect such a question to be asked by the needy and frightened Croatian citizens and citizens. The dissatisfaction with the reform of its own clienteleist position is also shown by representatives of the Croatian pension population, which counts absolutely financially unsustainable millions and 100,000 pensioners, i.e. pensioners. I believe that representatives and representatives of the pension population would be much better concerned about the interests of the population if, after requiring an increase in pensions to the level of a decent person, requested a revision of pensions. And since it has become quite normal in Croatia to retire healthy people from 40 years of age and even younger than that. No state could finance that, not to mention the benefits, the social privileges of false defenders and the like. And that's how it is. Unfortunately, we live in a country where, thanks to the systematic and multi-year expansion of HDZ mentality, many expect that they need to get something for nothing, and that the state can function without work or production. Politicians and politicians do not want to give up their high wages and numerous benefits and privileges. Public service unions close their eyes to the fact that we have tens of thousands of employees too in the state administration, and they don't even want to hear about the reform of a massive and inefficient bureaucratic apparatus. Holes without a bottom called agriculture and shipbuilding despite the constant growth of subsidies, are produced with increasing food and increasing losses on ships, so as not to count further. When we add related entrepreneurship, corruption and crime that are networked in almost all pores of government, the government's unpreparedness to the right cut and introduce order to the state, but the unwillingness to reform our traditional way of thinking by principle, it's not worth doing, we look for a relationship, we don't get a little bright picture of our future. And that's why I won't support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37709	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37710	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have this year's third budget rebalancing, which has been done panicically and without political will and strength to implement structural procedures that would include a part of this year, which has missed the chance of a more sustainable budgetary correction for next year. Furthermore, representatives of the government and the ruling coalition are constantly trying to prove that this is an imported crisis, although they have recently claimed that there is no crisis in Croatia, so they eventually only acknowledged the recession. Let's illustrate it with the statements of Minister Shuker. Nine. 1. In 2009, the issue of recession is being overly mystified. Immediately a day later, I deny forecasts of poor budget filling and the need for rebalancing. 22. 2 we never said there would be no rebalancing, so we have it every year, but before that it should be a few months. 18. 3. Due to the lack of money in the financial market, it is becoming increasingly difficult to pay 5.5 billion kuna each month for salaries and pensions. 28. The 5th largest loan of 750m euros is a success that proves the success of Croatian economic policy. 30. 6th public finances are stable, salaries and pensions in the first 6 months of this year have not been late for a day. 13. 7. this is a rebalancing of truth and real state. And 20. 7. If wages and pensions are not reduced, there could be no money for them in September. Croatia was therefore the only country that had no crisis, and came directly from recession to the brink of bankruptcy. And what numbers are we talking about? For example, at the end of May of this year when the foreign debt rose again, it amounted to 40.1 billion euros, worth around 300 billion kuna in kunas. It's huge numbers, so let's try to visualize it. Since the thickness of one bill of 100 kuna is approximately 0.1 mm or 10, it costs them 1 millimetres to lean on each other. If we put these livestock animals together, these 300 billion kunas correspond 300 kilometers and distances from Zagreb to Pula. And this rebalancing is a total weight of 2 billion kuna combined with the effects of the budgetary harrass, or these laws, while the budget gap is around 11 billion kuna. And the only savings on the spending side are barely 160 million kunas or three hundred and sixty-six meters and the promises, the cuts were three billion kunas or three kilometers and the budget hole was 11 billion kunas and 11 kilometers respectively. The budget is full of various intellectual services, and even in such an incredibly anti-intellectual activity as the artificial action at the time that it is a syntagma of the defence against the fight, even though the HDZ government itself has reached the conclusion that the defence against the beating is meaningless and scientifically unfounded for intellectual and personal services as it stands in the missile firing budget, there are as many as 5 million 560 thousand kuna for the missiles themselves 17 million kuna, despite the fact that the World Meteorological Organisation considers that there is no justification for the fight in scientific knowledge, and the Croatian government has even ordered the Croatian Ministry of Science of the Republic of Croatia to carry out a scientific project related to the defence of the fight which gave negative results and it is recommended that the government stop. Nevertheless, as an institutional activity, the fight remains in the countries with the most difficult Bolshevik heritage in which I do not classify Croatia but the fact that we are in this society. Also, this rebalancing does not indicate economic development and the budget is contrary to the miraculously missing HDZ guarantee card, which guarantees, quote, tax cuts. We will reduce taxes and thus strengthen entrepreneurship, agriculture and domestic production. Unlike others, we will remove bureaucratic obstacles and allow equal conditions for all by cutting taxes. Rebalance is panicking. Let us mention as an example of excise duty on SMS messages as if users will not immediately come up with and find a substrate in the form of e-mailing, for example, which can also be sent to this device. Even such devices can be mounted with the famous Skype program for mobile phone devices and practically free phone. I hope, given that I have the parliamentary immunity that I gave the idea to Croatian citizens who have nerves in these late hours, to follow the assembly sessions to begin to educate themselves as soon as possible before we hold a vote on these measures on Friday. Far more rational and incomparably larger savings would be created by rational and transparent use of public procurement, in which, for example, dog and cat food companies would not obtain anti-fire funds against the honesty of railways. The exit from the crisis is clearly required by this budget for the same concept that brought us into crisis and the sad fact that so far economic growth was based on the credit expansion of any state, whether citizens. And instead of dealing with structural problems, the government is super-hycovicly saving up to the poor and giving the rich but not to invest, but to patch up their own random needs for rich individuals. In conclusion, this third annual budget rebalancing has brought very little of the expected expenditure cuts and the introduction of new or increased existing taxes is therefore not surprising. As with defence against fighting, which for unknown reasons hypnotised HDZ's favorite coalition partner, the government's coalition composition has also conditioned the movement of subsidies, and it is clear that there could be no significant reduction without at the same time jeopardising the functioning of the government itself, which is a pity because the ability to manage public finances is one of the most important factors on Croatia's path to full membership of the European Union and it will cost us very expensive because it seems to me that this moment of Croatia's accession to the Union is further and further along with all other reasons and because of the inability to manage public finances. Anticipating a significant reduction in expenditure was an illusion. I wish I was wrong, but it'll come back to Croatia when we get into worse problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37711	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37712	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Allow at 10 o'clock a brief review of the debate on the state budget. The debate on the state budget is always more than obvious in the Croatian Parliament, the first-class political spectacle. Emotions, noises, frustrations, rivalry, calls for elections, elections, elections, elections will solve everything, improvisation, subjectivity, objectivity, insult, etc., all the characteristics of the debate on one of the most important and important issues of every country. And then the fundamental question is how can it be possible, in such a context, to debates of frustrations, to really rationally judge the quality of the state budget. I'd say almost impossible. And then a logical question arises which is an alternative to such arbitration from the state budget, whether it has alternatives and what it's called. Yes, I would say we need an alternative and that alternative in the future, and I said in the last debates, it needs to be more and more present in our debates so that they have some solid jobs, some firm restrictions. And this alternative can also be called in the following way, a formal approach to optimization of the Republic of Croatia's budget. It is not an expression of desire, but a methodology that shows that a limited state budget can be optimally distributed to all users, to all those who are running for the allocation of these limited state resources in order to ensure adequate social security, social peace, but at the same time to ensure adequate development. What is the characteristic of all these debates on the state budget? I would say, the basic characteristic is related to the psychological problem, and this psychological problem is called the difference between what we want, what we expect, what we require and what we really have in the mood and what we can really do. And this psychological barrier and this psychological conflict, the psychological problem, creates a certain kind of dissatisfaction that characterizes these discussions. Therefore, I would say very simply, the structure of the budget cannot remain and be an exclusive and only first-class political issue, but it can be a complex and complex professional and professional issue. This is certainly also a feature of this budget, but it is also certain that this formal methodology, an analytical that is related to the optimization of the state budget in the future, can be improved by various scientific, analytical efforts. That, I'd say, can't be disputed in any way. So it's a corner of how we can objectively objectify these discussions, make them much more objective, and much less individually I would say arbitrary. And for this reason, I believe that the optimization of the state budget is a very useful, formal mathematical mechanism that can serve us to verify that budget that is defined and adopted in the Croatian Parliament in this way. With the quality of the budget, we undisputedly determine our future, but we defend our present. Formal mathematical methods can point out and reveal some deficits in each budget, and therefore the one that we have on the agenda at this time, but these methods should certainly be used and applied more and more in the future. It is not simple, it is not intuitively easy to conclude which optimal source is almost tens of thousands of different items. Their optimal choice is something that requires, I would say, a lot more serious scientific efforts, analysis, sensitivity of analysis, and it seems to me that we can and must have more and more in our discussions so that they are not characterized solely by emotions, frustrations, calls to elections, the fact that we want much more than we have in the mood. This is an important feature of all these discussions, and it shows that in the future these discussions can be much more structured and that we can benefit much more from them. The budget is an important, key management function that stands in the mood of every government, every state to transform society from today's moment to the year they come, which should certainly be characterized by greater economic growth, development, etc. Therefore, giving attention to this way of optimising the budget is very important in order to achieve long-term goals related to stability, growth and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37713	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try to focus my discussion on two points that have been going through today. One is, of course, the investment that was being talked about, most of all, about the investment of the Peljega Bridge. For several months, the bridge has been put before the Croatian public as one of the main problems and as one of the main examples of waste, the alleged waste of HDZ authorities. Why is this false and why is it a planting, and why is it in some way a challenge for the citizens of the Croatian South to live under the same or the same conditions as others in Croatian living? First of all, because the bridge means connecting that part of Croatia with the queen of the country. Only that this project already means achieving one great national interest and means achieving one goal that will primarily mean better life and better development for all of Croatia and for the economy and for each individual. And when it comes to wastefulness, then we really need to take into account and combine the values of some other investments that have been going on in Croatia lately to actually come to the conclusion that this is not really some over-investment that could not be financed through the state budget. Namely, this Pelješki Bridge, which has already been talked about for months, cost believe or not a little more than that sports hall in Zagreb. The sports hall will cost and cost 210m euros, 30 years of 7m euros in the state and the City of Zagreb will pay for the sports hall. 210 million euros. The Peljeski bridge, which is a national interest, which means a better life for the entire south of Croatia, will cost 260m euros. What are we talking about? What investments, what waste? One single hall in Zagreb, 210m euros. One of the only halls. 30 years 7 million euros per year in the state and the City of Zagreb. And you're accusing us of wastefulness because we want to connect the Croatian state to a single unit? Is that waste? Add another small Benign investment to the hall in Zagreb and you will receive the investment of the Pelješki bridge. Just that and let's say that bridge that was built in Zagreb there at the exit to the eastern part, I don't even know what it's called, it cost 80 million euros. So, only those two investments are more than the Peljega Bridge and you're accusing us of waste... You don't consider that we have to cross the county twice every day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You are not taking into account the fact that the application of the Schengen regime will result in a very large disturbance of traffic and goods and services and passengers and everything else. You are not taking into account the fact that Peljesac peninsula is one of the most uninhabited areas of the Republic of Croatia. There are even 3 times fewer inhabitants per km square than there is already a Korčula that has far less than the Croatian average. You do not take into account these facts that are very important to us who are on the Croatian coast. Therefore, I personally find it unacceptable to reduce this investment from 200 million to 100m euros this year. That's unacceptable to me. It is unacceptable for citizens of the Croatian south. It's unacceptable. The more those funds that will be removed from the Peljega Bridge now, because you asked for it, because those who wrote it pointed out as a burning Croatian problem, the 100m euros will be invested in other infrastructure projects because they have to invest, 100 million kunas, pardons, not millions of euros. Because they have to invest in transport infrastructure because they're dedicated funds. Therefore, these funds cannot be invested either in the social or in new employment, etc. And yet, directly these are the funds for the economy. Building the Peljega Bridge means incentives for the economy, Croatian economy. Djuro Djakovic from Slavonia will also participate in the investment, the shipyards and the shipbuilding sites will participate, most of it is actually support for the Croatian economy. That's it. And you're accusing us of waste. I think we should make it clear which forces in Croatia are in the interest for the Croatian south to remain isolated. Let's talk open cards and tell which forces in Croatia it suits to keep the Croatian south isolated. You can reach every part of Croatia at 3 o'clock driving either by highway or railway, to every part, except for the Croatian south, to Dubrovnik, to Konaval, to Župa, to Lastovo, not to speak to Korčula etc. But you can reach all the other parts in 3 hours from Zagreb. You can come from Zagreb to Vukovar and Osijek by highway and railway in 3 hours. You can reach Varazdin and the railroad in half an hour as well. You can reach Rijeka in an hour by highway and rail. You can reach Split in 3 hours by highway and railway. And it takes you four hours to reach Dubrovnik from Split. And try to land the plane at the airport when there's a storm. No, you will land in Split and then take a bus from Split airport 4.5 hours later. Therefore, say what forces are actually behind you and who wants the isolation of the Croatian South? Who wants to remain Croatian South isolated, unrelated to the state? I think these are the same forces that opposed the construction of the Zagreb-Split highway in the 1970s. No one can convince me that's not so, that's not true. Ideologies never die, dear colleagues, ideologies never die, they just lay low and appear in another form through some other individuals, but be assured they never die. That will convince you of the future ahead of us. When you talk about debts and how this government is to blame for all of you, it's probably also the American debt of two thousand billion dollars that will be in this year alone. It is likely that European countries invested directly, or directly from their state budgets, 3 000 billion euros to help their banks and thus reached a deficit they never had. By April alone, I speak 3,000 billion euros from their budgets directly invested in their banks. Only Germany at one point 500 billion euros, only Germany at one point 500 billion euros. The United States on two occasions, on one occasion $780 billion, in the other over 700 billion. While Bush was 787 and now in the last 700 billion dollars directly to help their economy to help their financial institutions. We haven't singled out a kuna from our bank budget, not a single kuna. Is it our fault that Switzerland singled out all 10 billion euros in loans to help that bank that was one of the most respected banks? It may be our fault, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that USB, also one of the world's strongest banks, came to the brink of bankruptcy. It's probably our fault, too. Well, my people, of course, that crisis has spread from this sector to the Croatian state. Read today's report from the Economic Institute, and you will see that they do not predict a further decline in gross domestic product for the following year. They don't predict. Here, take a look. We don't say that, they say that, say experts from that institute. They say that we will probably recover in the following year, but of course this recovery will not depend solely on us, simply by the law of connected vessels will depend on the situation of course on everyone else. The exporters will depend on the market ahead of them and on which they appear, and that is why this proposal is a good law that will come soon, which is to help those exporters reduce their working week from 40 hours to 32 hours, but indeed those who need it. So I think that in Europe, too, they care about what happens tomorrow, so when it comes to European countries, then we can really compare ourselves first and foremost to those who have entered the European Union in the last wave, I think about those 10 and those last two. And we can say for certain that we are better than many of them, than one Latvia that has a decline in GDP 18%, a fall from other countries, I will not even talk about Hungary, about Romania, Bulgaria at all, because everyone knows both in the European Union and we in Croatia know that we live better and that we have better standards and that we have reached greater standards in general in life, even in social life in Croatia than those countries have. Those who don't think so can go on their own. So we're very well positioned. We need to use the situation to really balance the budget in the best possible way, and I think it's the only possible way at this point. There may be better ones, but at this point, it's the way both the government and the social partners agreed, and in that sense, I'm going to support this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37715	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37716	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In some ways, I am pleased to speak after an inspired speech by my colleague Matusic about the Pelješko Bridge because his performance is obviously a bit of an obvious excuse to the public, which will not be able to fulfill another promise because this item for the Pelješki Bridge has to be reduced because it is very difficult to explain how he will vote for the budget, and the most important item for the Croatian south is cut. I wouldn't want to talk about the ideology of who was in '71. against the construction of the Zagreb-Split highway. The Zagreb-Split highway from Karlovac to Dupolj was built in 2002 during the Ivica Racan government and fortunately and fortunately it was so built that the HDZ government couldn't break up, and I'm not sure it wouldn't. And of course, the Pelješki bridge will be opened when the SDP is in power, because with this kind of waste, there is no nation that can finance this kind of state administration and this kind of consumption, and this much other megalomanic projects, and eventually the Pelje Bridge. There isn't. Therefore, to reduce state spending, to rationalise the state a little, there will be money then and to the Pelje Bridge. After all, in 2005 in the local elections Ivan Sprlje had on his poster, 2005, on his poster Pelješki bridge and his slogan was "the parish that connects" and then Mr. Matušić got more votes than you in those elections. As many as the citizens believed. This is the third rebalancing session of the 13th session. Minister Schuker said the economy is a game of numbers. Well, third is luck, 13 is unhappy. Unfortunately, however, this 13 part of us is more prevailing at the 13th session because many Croatian citizens will be unhappy about this budget because some will take 1, some 3, and some 5% of their incomes, whether they take from their salaries, through an increase in prices due to VAT. Now, according to the schedule on Croatian television, the film "Awoken Consciousness", but this conscience was not awakened, but Croatian citizens were therefore in front of their homes, or on yachts with little or much vitres, watching this parliamentary debate, and unfortunately they are aware that the conscience of the Croatian government did not wake up in the need of less consumption. Then what did we get? Students who aren't good during the year come in summer for an extension class. Therefore, the Croatian government fell at the second term and now called on all of us and citizens to continue teaching in order to try to correct the assessment insufficiently from funding the state from budget planning. And she didn't fix it, but she'll have to come on second period at nine months to fix it. And who will pay for this incompetence? They'll pay the citizens, of course. However, at first they had to pay public services for 6%, and then the citizens at 8, and then we'll never know if Mr. Hrelja was right or Mr. Shuker, whether they should have paid only the very rich, which have over 3,000 kunas, and now someone can explain that someone with four children and three thousand kunas is very rich and that belongs to that class that has to pay taxes. And that's where the government chose one line of less resistance. It's the easiest thing to do. Besides, it's a shortcut to your party. Let's grab it. Let's grab into the citizens' pocket this little tax we can get them. Well, then here's as acceptable as ours... And coalition partners, so we'll find some possible measure, so that's two and four percent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the contrary, what someone else is offering. So let's play again... Let's cut state spending. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not on people. Not on people, we cut to expensive jobs, we cut to high representation costs, intellectual services, etc., and then, of course, the citizens wouldn't feel it. They'd feel more confident in the state if someone cared about them. All he cares about is getting their taxes out of his pocket. And then if you can't take the taxes out of your pocket, then let's increase the VAT and we'll take them from what they buy. And they still got that from the party that had those blue posters no new taxes. With us red devils that we wanted to introduce some kind of tax on the rich. And yet you haven't done it, even though coalition partners tell you to do it. But fortunately, however, Croatia is a democratic country, new elections will come, the elections will be won by those who are citizens, and by the way the citizens believe you, of course, so will we and you. You promised them no new taxes, you gave them new taxes. And you still taxed those who have over three thousand kunas with 2%, and then over six thousand kunas with four percent. Then why aren't you the ones who have over ten thousand kunas with six and so on?? They'd get more from them, but you didn't. Therefore, after an awakened conscience on HTV 2, there was supposed to be a film called Father's Justice. So obviously, the composers of the HTV programme had a lot of inspiration about this budgetary debate. Unfortunately, justice will not yet be welcomed until the government has changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37717	Thank you. It seems to me that instead of an awakened conscience, the film is being tamed on the screen. ... It's merciless. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's a male stork. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] An unidentified representative loses his right to a word. It couldn't be established by careful graphoscopic analysis of who it would be. You're not Ingrid. Your manuscript Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. [[/Intruder: Isn't it Head?]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37718	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. We've been hearing for months that everything that's been going on in Croatia is a world recession. I'd like to ask you colleagues and colleagues, I've listened very carefully. I know it's late. So it's all the world's recession. But Mr. Minister, in his address today, and the prime minister did not explain to us what the recession was. I am not an economist, most Croatian citizens are also not and it would have been good if you had at least explained to us what the recession is. Those who have been able to help me have said that most of you economists define recession as a negative economic growth through two consecutive quarters. Now, if so, then if this is Mr. Minister's anti-recession budget, then I expect, if this is an anti-recession budget because you are referring to it, then it would be good to tell us what are the selective measures that you will take through this budget to encourage economic growth, that it is no longer negative, but positive, to get out of recession. Some countries encouraged their banks, others encouraged development technology in the auto-industry, third aided this or that, but it was known to be a selective form of helping the economy get out of recession. We haven't heard anything from you in that direction. Because of Croatian citizens, I would try to simplify this story and say that we can view the recession as a sharp curve with the wrong angle, and on this curve as a consequence of the recession, drivers often fly off the road and get hurt. Now what is the anti-recession measure of the minister that you would take in such a case? Would you have corrected the slope of the road if it didn't land in that place? Or would you step up the E.R. team to intervene faster with the unhappy and move them to the hospital as quickly as possible? That's a serious question. It is likely that anyone serious in this situation would try to correct the slope of the road that an accident no longer occurs. We don't, unfortunately, do it with this budget either. Absolutely not. The measures you proposed had nothing to do with the anti-recession measures, with a strong boost to the economy as the prime minister said 10, 15 days ago. Does Mr. Ministers and other European states at this time, in order to get out of recession, reduce wages, reduce pensions, increase VAT? Do they introduce a crisis tax? Do they do all that? Do they reduce schooling, for science? My colleagues and colleagues, in America and Western Europe, there was a crisis because of the way their banks did business. And it is clear that these countries have just gone selectively to the recovery of the financial system, so that it can encourage clear development, investment, the economy. The causes of the crisis that Croatia is in today have nothing to do with the origin of the crisis in America and Western Europe. We have 10 laws on the table, 10 laws. I ask you, read only the titles of those laws that we will discuss tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, how much they will help through some anti-recession measures "May 3rd" Končaru, Krashu, Pliva, Podravci and others to be more competitive, more productive to export better, etc. Long ago, let's be honest, at least a little honest, long before the recession in the world there were already serious problems with the budget. Long before the recession in the world we had an extremely expensive state and in the last five years we increased the number of employees by 50 thousand. Let's do it for 10,000 ministers, you did it wrong. People used to get jobs, we used to make fun of the socialism period because of moral political similarities. In the last five years thousands and thousands of people have been accepted by what principle? By party belongings. That's embarrassing. And the moral category is no longer mentioned. Look at the affairs and scandals from day to day in public enterprises, and you know who's setting up and how the top people of these public companies are being appointed. You know who's sitting on those surveillance boards. Scandal after scandal every day. Long before the recession in the world, we had a huge trade imbalance. Long before the recession in the world, Croatia's external debt was at a time when HDZ took over the government five years ago amounted to an external debt of 19 billion euros. Today, colleagues and colleagues after only five years, it amounts to over 40 billion euros. And no one would object to you if you invested that money in factories, in technology, in development, in employment, in standard. But billions were lost and billions were lost without any effect. It's unacceptable we knew long before the world went into recession that this year we'd have to pay more than 14 billion euros in debt, that next year it would be another six and a few billion, and we'd have to pay back six and a few billion again. Long before the world recession. The basic question I want to ask here in the Parliament today. Do those who brought us into this situation have any right to try to get us out of this situation now? The answer is definitely no. My colleagues and colleagues today called me a huge number of people, probably all of you from all over Croatia today, because people are watching this transmission today, you know. I'm surprised how many people watch this transmission. One man M.S. from Imotski says tell Mr. Minister and Prime Minister, I personally know 70 false defenders in my area. Let him publish a list of those who burden the budget without ever being defenders. Please, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Looks like the next one, the second one. Compare the allocation of funds for the University of Mostar, with the University of Pula or some other universities. Show these figures some citizens know how much they stand out for ours and how much for Mostar University. The third one says so. Wait, I represent the citizens who called me today and I convey their position. This doesn't have to be my attitude, but I want you to listen to what the citizens are telling us. I'm asking you nicely, be polite at least listen to it. The gentleman and he sold Croatian passports in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today he is free to live even though he is a criminal in Croatia. One lawyer who's a single parent has educated three children. The oldest child in school can't be hired for years. The state he created must leave to get a job. That's embarrassing. The doctors call the others, giving false certificates to the fake disabled, burdening the budget. So, citizens have been picking up all day. My colleagues and colleagues agree with HDZ only in one way that we don't need the IMF. We need a new honest, professional and capable government. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37719	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37720	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll try not to use my 10 minutes. It's very hard to say anything, not repeat. But we're talking about the global crisis, we're saying in this House that there's a crisis all over the world. However, economists warned, employers warned, the professional public warned us, the governor warned us that the crisis would spill over into Croatia. However, both in the Croatian Parliament and through the media and through the public, we were convinced that it would pass us, that it would hit us but it would not be so, that we would get away, that we have an economy that is elastic, which will be adapted. However, we warned all the time and we were all aware that there was a crisis within the Republic of Croatia. If anything, we have said that we have and we have talked all the time and in accession to the European Union and all that we have to do to have too much consumption, to have too much and huge public administration, to have big state spending and to have to make structural reforms, rationalisation, or to spend beyond measures, or to spend beyond our opportunities more than what we earn. But we were deaf, we said we had time, we were probably buying time. One election came, another election came, measures unpopular, measures heavy and painful. However, the non-implementation of these measures has met with the external crisis and today the results are evident. That they are also visible in this Croatian Parliament we were witnesses where we had assurances from the representatives of the government that everything is fine, that there will be no need to do rebalancing, so we will eventually do one rebalancing at the beginning of the summer, and after that by the end of the year it will be all right. However, citizens have had the opportunity to listen again, they must again be called upon by the governor, both economists, both employers and the economy and the Chamber of Commerce that they will need to do something in state spending because the economy will not be able to endure. Here, today we are where we are, bringing the most unpopular measure that doesn't solve anything structurally, which doesn't allow the economy to get over and get over this situation because the note Bene no matter what we do and we talk all the time about consumption, however, consumption without a quality economy, all that makes up of the industry that Croatia has problems in all sectors of agriculture, trade, tourism, etc., without a quality economy we won't be able to spend and cover everything we've covered so far. That's how it's supposed to make painful cuts as soon as possible. This imposition that we have now brought, which affects the citizens of the Republic of Croatia directly and the notes that citizens are aware of the situation I want to say here clearly, that citizens are those who brought before the state their anti-recession measures, unfortunately in their families and this is seen through the decline of consumption, citizens have already brought their incomes very much into certain contexts. However, today it is a fact to bring down the frameworks of 6 thousand 200 kuna that will be targeted by this tax and impose very hard. We can only imagine what it's like for people today with 6 grand 200 kunas to be educated by two, three children or one child, what it's like to pay people direction, what it's like to buy people food. Today we talk and boast that we are socially sensitive because 3,000 people will not be taxed. If a million and 200 thousand people in the country are in the frames of up to 3,000 people, it also speaks of the situation in which we are and what awaits us in a very fast period. Also, here's the chance we had today, the prime minister was there. I accept she had to go on a business assignment, I accept she went to talk to the directors of public companies. Here's a chance on the portal to read that they promised not to raise the price, that it would be their contribution. But I also had a chance to read I think the director of HEP who said that 120 or 110 million kunas will compensate within the system through reduced investments etc. Indirectly, it will again come to light through reduced investment consumption and will indirectly return to the state budget. Therefore, these measures that we take in my deep measure are measures that can last for two, three months. We'll see you very soon before the new year maybe even before we meet again with the problem. What he'll be like, we can only hope he won't be like that, that he'll cause problems I don't want to think about who he might be. But the fact that we still don't know anyone today, nobody knows except the Minister, I respect the state of public finances at all, what the state of charge of the state budget is, what the projection is. I think all citizens are aware in the state that we are in a difficult situation. I also expect citizens to expect it myself, and it is there that you who are in power to start rationalization as soon as possible, with reforms that will be painful to bring down public administration or state administration in real terms, to reduce all consumption according to the possibilities. That will require support from the citizens. I'm convinced the citizens understand the situation. To ask for citizens' support, I think that these are elections that whoever won the elections will have the legitimacy to implement all those measures that the notes will be painful in the next period. So, I think that everything that's been done so far has been done as it's done, the measures are difficult, the citizens won't approve them. Here says counterpart Doric to call people, call all day, people are very interested in today's debate. Therefore, citizens expect to live better. With these measures imposed on them by the measures expected to develop the economy, the economies expect measures. They're not here yet. Therefore, we expect you to come out with these measures as soon as possible, and if I don't think that the only time is for the new elections, and whoever gets the citizens' trust will be able to implement these measures, and I am convinced that we can do them ourselves without help from outside, I think we have enough strength and opportunities. Therefore, I urge you to begin as soon as possible, to reach that part of the damage that can be caused by inaction as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37721	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37722	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, it seems to me that on some sad but I commend the minister for being here with us, but it's sad that he's the only one, I mean, no matter what I disagreed with him sometimes even in style, sometimes what he said, but he's here, one of the few ministers who's here when it's being debated. And on the other hand, it's a sad fact when one representative points out it as something unusual. Today we're discussing rebalancing, discussing a very important matter. Here's the wrinkles sometimes sparks etc. But we're really saying whether Croatian society is on the verge of a break-in or not, whether we're in crisis or not, and in some ways the government is ignoring this speech of ours, which should be not only a monologue, but a conversation with the Croatian government that we chose. She's not here. She was prime minister this morning, she had responsibilities at 12 o'clock, so she said she left nicely. But now it's 10.34 here's 30 seconds. I think she could have come back to hear what the MPs had concluded at the end of the day and this long debate. I'm saying that for one thing, first of all, it's unclear to me after a whole day's debate that we are here or that we still doubt that we cross between ourselves political spears, whether we are in crisis or not. I mean, my people, it's like we're fighting now whether it's Monday or not. Yeah, but I don't care about a part of the people in this room, and that's sad for me, which is Monday, but it's important that I say it's just useless to argue about facts. And it is up to us first of all to look the truth into our eyes because in order to resolve this situation, we need to take a mirror and look at where we are all together, a complete society headed by a political structure, primarily by those who rule, but also by all of us. In this country precisely because of this microcry, precisely because of the unpreparedness to face the truth, to admit what almost every child knows, this country needs first and foremost a moral renovation. So, it takes this moral level to face, to say the least, not with one false picture in which there is, nor with its false position, nor to try to escape the responsibility of what this society and this state and all the citizens in it have, thanks to most of the politicians, and to those who rule, because they have levers of power. And we won't benefit from any verbal violence, verbal acrobatics, fostering and rational ideological conflicts between us, searching for internal enemies, going back to the first one who started the road, who didn't, who didn't. We can go back forever, we're doing a hell of a lot of good going back. The reverse of Croatia has been particularly developed among politicians, and the ordinary man is waiting for tomorrow's day, which is called Tuesday, and tonight he is thinking about what he will do in the morning, what he will eat, and what he will eat, if he can afford three meals. One big part of the people, if we don't want to admit it, there's nothing we can do. We're going to look for internal enemies, we're going to encourage irrational conflicts between the headless, scared, today we're talking about a category of fear. This category of fear rules Croatian society. Part of the people are scared for themselves, their children, their existence every day. If we try to manipulate these frightened people in such a way that in any of the many variants of pulsism we force them to come out, the god-fearing exits seek to conflict with some false fictions from the enemy, then we will again, in the old Croatian habit, come into disaster. And that's why I appeal at least to that grain of morality, objectivity, responsibility that will stop us from doing it, because we are the most responsible, like, conditionalally speaking, political caste that is privileged in this society, my dear friends. To get going first, we need to get out of here. If we don't deal with the politicians of criminals, and all evil goes from those who have power, and power is concentrated in politics, so the branch where the branch is, we all know how and what and who and why. If we are not ready to deal with it, we will argue there or no corruption in Croatian society, and every moment proves to us that all the bells are ringing, that all the red lights are on, that the situation is not alarming because it is a mild notion of where we are. We're not going to achieve anything, and I can assure you again that every single dose of responsibility, we as a position, and you as a power of God, we with far greater responsibility, can only stop it together from going into a break-in. This condition can only be overcome in a solid way, but not by false solidarity. So whoever you're convincing, you don't need to convince me, I'm not socially endangered. But here you believe, I say now on purpose because we heard from the main authorities here that this is a socially sensitive rebalancing because they with 3001 kuna are rich and they see here they won't pay anything. So please, what is the limit and who is the genius of this border and who is who created some new social stratification in Croatia, because we belong to a very rich society in which a million and 500 people, 900 thousand pensioners and 600 thousand employees who receive up to 3000 kuna will not be subject to a repressive tax collection measure. They're not gonna get a sheriff from Nottingham or a face like that, but Robin Hood mentioned enough today to take the money out of their pockets. I'm just telling you this because of what I've been up to here as a mimicry, calling on what's clear to everyone that it's not as clear as the final truth. So come on, let's get the courage and let's say we're here to overcome it, we need to do it, we need to do it, we need to do it. I'll give you one example, here's the unemployment benefits cut. Whoever got fired without his guilt will no longer be able to receive 70, 75% of the salary he has received in the last three months, because it could receive a maximum of 70% of the average salary of 5300 kuna, but will now be able to receive 70% after this rebalancing but minimum wages of 2100, 2200 kuna. Here we are so socially sensitive that we're hitting the unemployed who, without their own guilt, have been left unemployed, who have been proven to be driven with their foot into that thing on the street to make someone rich in this society, my dear gentlemen. Well, it's clear that this is about the endless insecurities of the actions of our fellow citizens who rob others, pressure them, take them, and still think that we should worship them and are very unhappy that we don't worship them. And they're very angry that we're telling them this out loud. Then they say you're commies, you're in '71, you're in 1848, not 948, doing this and that. So come on, guys, I mean, it's time to get serious about the position we're in, the functions we have, and the money we're getting for it. No lie will save us, and we can mask it any way we want. Let's get serious, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37723	The truth frees up. Not always. Maybe an appeal court. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37724	Dear Vice President, here's my story back in '98. the year the value added tax was introduced. Then the unplanned income of the state budget increased by 33%. And it wasn't the times it was being saved, it was already in the budget for the next '99. The year was ordered by the ministries to increase their expenditure items. And what happened in '99 happened. A year with all the pressure on economic growth has seen a negative sign and while the whole of Europe has been in plus, Croatia was in a downturn in 1999 and a negative economic trend has occurred since 2000... the arrival of a new administration changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is one example of how not saving is not to be saved, but to be saved by necessity, or by necessity. I will also remind you that in 2003 you announced that you would reduce the value added tax rate from 22% to 20%. It's not done. In 2007, you also announced that there would be no new taxes because it was your pre-election platform on which you received votes from voters you feared with the SDP, and now this is exactly what is happening to introduce new taxes. You introduce excise taxes on mobile telephony, you raise the value added tax rate, you raise the pay tax crisis, you collect from those who have the least to patch up irresponsible spending over the last six years. The truth is, you probably joked both times in 2003 and 2007 when you said you weren't going to introduce new taxes, or that you were going to reduce VAT. Now he's getting up. And it doesn't rise by 1%, I'm going to have to correct you, it rises by 4.54 and 5%, because one index point to 22 is 5%, VAT rises by 5%, it doesn't rise by 1%. The crisis tax from 2 to 4% will not only burden the citizens further, but it will also burden the economy because logic and calculations if the economy has the gross salary it pays to the workers, and then we will plan with a higher tax and we will collect no longer stands. Why? First, let's look at it from the basis of the aspect of value added tax. When taxes are raised, more resorting and avoiding paying the tax itself and by showing all economic analysis. but what is also happening in that time is that the tax must not be raised when there is no strategic direction. And if you don't know where to direct the tax strategically, then it's better not to raise a tax on added value, or other charges because tax is addiction, tax is slavery that is easy to get into, and out of which it's hard to get out. I'll remind you that all units of local self-government that introduced the concessions are no longer out of them. Every tax that the new one introduced more and was hard to remove. That's how it's gonna be here. Believe me, that's how it's gonna be here, I wish this was a temporary tax, I don't want it to stay all the time, but I feel like this tax is going to be delayed, too. And what is important is to say, it is important to say that this corresponds with what the European Commission is doing, that is, with what the US administration and countries that first recognized the burden of recession have felt the burden of recession and resolve the crisis. The European Commission is reducing VAT through the European Commission's recovery plan or your European Economic Recovery Plan, introducing an inter-step VAT, we are raising it. We sent you a proposal on the VAT rate to basic supplies, food, energy, you didn't accept it. The European Commission is reducing payment deadlines by 60 to 30 days. With us, payment deadlines have been shifted and they are growing and this has generated indifference in the economy estimated at 17 billion kuna, but our entrepreneurs are therefore not spared from paying the state a value added tax within a short period of time, although their claims cannot be charged for a very long time. And therefore, it is no wonder that HBOR has introduced the latest short-term liquidity line, so far it has not. HBOR should finance long-term projects, HBOR should finance Croatian exporters, not help the Croatian economy to be liquid because they cannot pay their claims. We have a bunch of our companies that are solvable, in their balance sheets, they show they have subdued obligations, only they don't have money because they haven't been able to collect their claims to pay the workers' wages. And then there's the layoff, and then there's this week's work week that this bill predicted, but I believe what's going to happen is going to be abused because according to estimates that come from various economic aspects and independent analysts, it's estimated that by the end of the year that another 50,000 people will be out of work, which is alarming, which is alarming. The European Commission is reducing roaming prices, reducing mobile communications prices. Why? Because mobile communication and the freeness and availability of mobile communications will soon be installed in certain constitutional countries because communication is the only thing that can start the economy. We're going to introduce that imposition now. I'm not saying that he from an economic aspect in a certain part of the great gain is not justified, but you have to wonder who did it? There's a few of them. Investments. There was a lot of mention and was thrown here from various aspects, looking at the Croatian south and the Pelješki bridge, but I would also prefer that the Pelješki bridge be made immediately, that the highway towards Dubrovnik be made immediately, that the Danube-Sava channel which was made immediately, that the highway to Sisak be made immediately, that the highway announced to Koprivnica be made immediately, that the highway to Virovitica which was announced to be made also immediately, but however, there will simply be no money for these things. And hold the position for the Pelješki bridge at 100 million, and quietly give up on that project, because if you said yourself that this project will be late for a few years, it means to postpone it, it means to maintain 100 million per year for a cold drive. The cold drive of something that's under construction, whose results we can't see. It would be better, more energetic for the Croatian economy to cut across that Pelješki bridge, finish immediately, break that story, than announce a project that may be due to the lack of money will never happen, as some major infrastructure projects have not happened. Or it will happen in the future when a government realizes that it simply can't, which is already too much money thrown out of the project. But then it will de facto for the situation also have an important addition itself... And it's said where it can be saved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's paying. Between 2003 and 2007, the cost of salary in the state administration increased from 15 billion to 24 billion, by over 60%. I already spoke today, and I'll do it again. In companies in the public sector, there are people in public enterprises who receive very large salaries, whose pay is for them, who pay all of us here together extremely, extremely low. They have salaries up to 5, 6, 7 times the pay. 400 managerial contracts in HZ. What about the other public-owned companies? We're reading a crowded newspaper these days of affairs coming from these companies. I sent you a proposal, i.e. Prime Minister Kosor's question to list how many people in public enterprises have more salaries than parliamentary salaries. I assure you it's over a thousand people. Over a thousand people in public companies have management contracts, official cars, cards, double, triple, four times the pay, and they are there on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of the public, on behalf of this country, on behalf of the government ministers who have given them confidence, and that is what is most important to make a strong cut in that section, because regardless of what side they are constantly demeaning, and 2,000 people in public enterprises in Croatia have 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 times the salary, all the benefits and there are no cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37725	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There have been a lot of words here today about the hack, so I can't think of one event since 30 years ago when one prominent lawyer in the tax administration at the time was revolved by a tax cut at the time when those times when the terrible Turkish harrass was 10%? However, and the joke aside, we are here today facing a serious economic disease that Croatia is exposed to. And this is also evident in the fact that despite the government's rather strong will to cut the budget, so we also had opportunities to read in the media how exactly Minister Schuker advocated a reduction in consumption, because we are all aware that public spending in Croatia is extremely high. We have come to this proposal today for budget rebalance in which, wanting to balance actual revenue and expenditure budget, it has come to try to increase revenues through new taxes. However, there is a problem that is fundamentally difficult for the Croatian economy, which is becoming less and less competitive in the economy, precisely as a consequence of these different and new tax burdens. As much as that means, maybe here's an example. Germany. Before the unification, Western Germany had twice as much exports as England and France combined. After the unification, it is no longer the case, but it has actually come to this situation that, due to the decline of its own economy, German exports have fallen. We are in this situation, that we are practically adopting a whole range of different bill proposals today that will increase budget revenues, therefore, from the Law on Special Tax on Payments and Pensions, the Law on the Change of Taxes on Extra Value, then there are some taxes that would also support those relating to motor vehicles, etc., but also these fees for providing services in mobile electronic communications networks. They represent a new burden on the economy and what I think is that the government should do exactly the opposite, that measures that will actually increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy should be sought. I am also aware that the government is also exposed to quite strong union pressures, which may be misbehaving in these negotiations with the government, when the government is being printed and actually seeking only bigger wages, higher wages, higher wages, and neglecting the practical fact that such demands work in favour of their own harm, because in the long run they make it impossible for those whose interests are actually fighting to have stable, secure, relatively large incomes and a better quality of life. That is why I cannot accept any increase in any new taxes, taxes, burdens that actually make the Croatian economy less competitive and therefore cannot support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37727	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ljubo Jurcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's today's distinguished representative Hebrang spoke of different opinions, economic schools, independent economists, so I'm going to give an economic opinion today. We're doing this rebalancing because we're in crisis, the crisis is unequivocal, the production is falling, the consumption is dropping because the main indicators of crisis and stagnation or recession are whatever you want. That's why it's wrong to say that budget rebalance is an anti-recession measure, because rebalancing in this way when consumption is cut, tax increases, it acts counter. In situations like this, it's done backwards, anticyclically. Budgetary spending is increasing, and taxes are decreasing. This says economic theory confirms economic practice, and all countries are now implementing it in the world. Second. There's talk of spilling the world's crisis. It's also not true. Not from a political period, but a simple definition of our problem. Croatia studied or began stagnating its production after the first quarter of 2007 when the growth rate was 7%, the second quarter was smaller, the third one was smaller, the fourth one was less, and so it was after four in 2008 to end at zero or minus. At the time there was a conjuncture in the world. The world could sell anything produced. The price of oil has increased due to high consumption, food prices have increased and everything that happened by the first half of 2008. And we've been falling all over 2007 and all over 2008. So the global crisis has no impact on our situation. It is also not correct politically possible to say to someone that we have avoided the first wave of the global crisis, which is not true. The world's first wave of crisis was because Americans were issuing hollows, worthless papers because of their own greed. The Europeans, out of that same greed, were buying these papers. And in the end, it turned out that these securities, these investments, they were missed, that it was all one big scam, and there was a lot of money lost. Croatian banks or Croatian institutions did not participate in this, so they did not lose anything there, so we did not participate in the first stage or the first crisis. Also, the first wave of crises have been experienced by countries that have large exports to America. Croatia has no significant exports to America, so the drop in demand in America has caused no damage to our production and our exports. So in the first wave of the crisis, we didn't actually participate. We've had a somewhat different wave of crisis. Today, a colleague spoke about the mathematical display of this crisis or budget. To watch this, in the first quarter of this year, our gross domestic product fell almost 7%, and domestic production dropped more than 10%. This is why this is the difference, because imports have fallen more than exports, so we're relatively less negative, so those 10% didn't show up as 10%, but only as 7%. In this 10% drop in production, the drop in exports is less than 1%. So we can say that our crisis is 90% our own crisis, and at this point 10% is just a crisis that has been brought about from abroad, which is the consequence of the foreign crisis falling demand, etc. Also, the introduction or imposition of the tax that we're going to talk about tomorrow will seem recessional. And we need to be clear about that. Maybe that's necessary. But we need to be aware of that. Maybe directly I wouldn't be against it if there were other measures that aren't within the scope of fiscal policy. The increase in income tax will work to reduce the available income of the population, i.e. available resources. On one side less for buying, but less for saving. Less consumption, less production, less production, less income. And every tax will always be directly or indirectly charged out of income. All taxes are charged from national income. In this case, the tax increase will reduce consumption, reduce consumption, reduce production, reduce income and reduce income in three steps as far as possible within two, three months will reduce our tax base more than we will collect this tax increase. That can even be calculated if we're dealing with economics quite precisely. The demand for our first 5.6 months has dropped 17%, and we can still expect that because of this tax imposition due to the reduction of the available income, additional demand will fall, and that's where the circle ends. The difference between VAT tax and income tax, income tax is much more effective on fiscus, because it is immediately collected. As soon as a man gets his income, right? And VAT is charged when a man spends his income. So for a fiscus it's much better to impose income tax, and VAT eventually when spending and part of income goes to savings. So this income tax he's also on savings. And savings tax less investment, less accumulation. Okay, that's all it is, can, at first glance, slightly improve the situation in the budget in the long term, damage the base tax base. That's why the main problem is here, it's not the Ministry of Finance, it's each other's ministry or in another part of the government that we're facing the collapse of the tax base. And in fact, these measures are all wrongly directed at me, if they're the only ones left. That's why we're trying to restructure here, restructure, change the tax system some rates, introduce etc., and in fact we're facing a fall in the tax base. We are faced with a reduction in national income from which these taxes are reduced. And that's why we're facing a very big problem here, if we know that the funds of the population or consumers come from income and come from credit. And this effect that first felt on the fall of the tax base, actually the decline of the credit opportunities of Croatian citizens. They don't have that much credit anymore, they can't take so much credit to spend and they're down 16.17%. It also reduces the production of 10%. And they're actually making measures for anti-recession measures, and even then what's going to work on the budget is not in the first step at the Ministry of Finance, but they're in the Ministry of Economy. Therefore, how to preserve the tax base, i.e. how to preserve or revive and maintain domestic production. This first blow is because there's no credit. And one thing. And there's no import goods, no other thing. That's what we'd talk about if we talked about how we talked to you. I talked about it here in 2004. One sentence was the aim of the government's economic policy to reduce the budget deficit to zero. Which I couldn't agree more if the country had been developed. I then discussed that in this situation when we fixed the exchange rate policy at a fixed rate where one of the strongest instruments of economic policy was rejected, we replaced it with the goal of remaining our only instrument of budget deficit. The budget deficit as the country that has the highest rating gives the cheapest source of funding and this source of funding not for current consumption, but for increasing production capacity. The production capacity in which income will be generated which is later taxed from this increased income, at the same tax rate, cover that budget deficit. We did not completely get rid of that budget deficit, we did not increase production capacity, and now we often boast that we have reduced the debt of the state. But the state isn't for itself. The government isn't just for itself. The government is doing the whole state, which is interesting now. We were reducing the budget deficit and it was much less good but at the same time the debt of the state grew and the government was in charge not only of its finances, not only of its economic situation but of the economic situation throughout the country so that we had a situation here to reduce the budget deficit so as not to increase the debt abroad and our debt abroad was constantly growing. And that's the real problem of Croatia because we're too in charge, because every year we spend an average of 8 to 10% more than we produce. That was an average of about 3 to 4 billion euros that have now grown to 40 billion euros that we should return. The budget deficit should therefore be a source of funding for increasing domestic production, a source of funding for state administration reform, restructuring of the economy, etc. what all the countries in the world are now doing from England to America who are using the budget deficit up to 13, 14 and 15%. And what we should do here would be, the goal is to increase the tax base. In order to increase the tax base, production needs to be increased and there are three policies. The first policy is industrial policy that we produce, the second is regional policy where we produce, the third is technology policy how we produce, and the fourth is the social agreement to agree on how to finance it. Without it absolutely this policy will not be complete and at the end of the year we will meet here with the same situation that our tax base will be even smaller and we will have no idea how to increase domestic production and tax base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37729	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37730	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and ladies of the council. You will agree that the difficult task is now to discuss after Mr. Jurcic's expert debate. But let me look back on today’s debate and give some of my thinking. All today's debates by the SDP club as I followed and by the HNS club mainly ended with the last message, sentence and desire, an early election appeal, so this could be characterized from which it is clear that this was one less performance today for the TV audience. The fact that none of us here disputed the crisis, it was just a question of whether it was just a global crisis or whether it was an internal crisis or whether it was the two powers that resulted in a crisis that none of us here today denied. This reminds me of a little bit of parsom because we recognize each other to the crisis, only one and the other sees another way out of it, or we see the truth differently. Two weeks ago, we called this budget here a budget of truth, this morning we heard from the head of the opposition, he said this is the budget of despair and we still want to call it the rebalancing of solidarity because it really is from these measures that the government is proposing. And as we heard this morning from our Prime Minister, she said this is the basis for the 2010 budget, we will probably meet again at the end of the year, as counterpart Jurcic says. However, the fact is that in the past two rebalancings we have met with a reduction in expenditure and that in today's rebalancing we are still talking about increasing the revenue side, or we are going to talk about it tomorrow and the day after that by passing this whole set of laws that we are talking about here. I wouldn't repeat everything we've heard here so far. She will agree that in 2003 she was mentioned here by her colleague Jovanovic as a guaranteed card and we are all aware of her, but we are also aware that it was difficult in 2003 whether we have a vision or not to predict what will happen in 2009, so if 10% as Mr. Jurcic said, the global crisis was just and I believe that much more influenced Croatia was difficult to predict what was going to happen. I would concentrate on two facts right now, one is a Pelje Bridge because it literally touches me and personally and I speak of course on behalf of the citizens of Dubrovnik. And the other fact is the local budget. If you allow me to abuse this pay phone today because these days there have been a lot of holes in local budgets, so I would link it to this current rebalancing, it has been heard specifically about the Dubrovnik budget that is in some minus 50 million kuna. I would like to briefly explain to you and the Croatian public what this is all about to realize that the crisis has spread from America to Europe, from Europe to Croatia and has reached Croatia to the far south of our city. In particular, the main two budget revenue sides of the city budget are specific in Dubrovnik. One is a municipal contribution and the other is a property tax. In particular, in 2007 taxes on municipal contribution 65 million kuna, in 2008 35 million kuna, this year up to 1.7. 4.5 million kuna. Now you can ask me why it is not being built in Croatia, why no municipal contribution is being paid in Dubrovnik, why there are no foreign investments because all these previous years that I told you about was just a contribution from those who were renovating hotels, who were buying hotels, mostly a suite about foreign investments. As far as real estate tax is concerned, you are also aware of the fact that a lot of real estate has been sold especially in the old town's centre of dwellings and that we have made big budget money on that side, and because of that we have not been pleased to sell the apartments in such a way as to be domestic or foreign even though we are not xenophobic but now we lack that budget money. I will tell you in 2001 at the beginning of my first term the city of Dubrovnik had a budget of 90 million kuna. Last year, 2008 had a budget of 400 million kuna, only so much about how much growth occurred in Croatia that this year would probably have to decrease by about 70, 80 million by the end of the year, now 50 but I believe that by the end of the year it will go even lower. So, what I'm saying is that Dubrovnik is just one small picture of what is happening in Croatia, and I also want to tell you that the way the budget is spent in Adriatic cities is particularly specific. In the first five months, we work, we build until the tourist season and we do a little killing. During the summer, money is collected and in the 10th month we go to rebalancing and all this is amortised. We may be doing a crime, and I'm aware of that, and we may have done it all these years, but the fact that the handover of the government happened in the 10th month, the 11th month would have been balanced. Therefore, it should be understood that it is only by chance the 5th month of the election and I am saying this on behalf of these other mayors because I read in the paper that the situation was similar in Zadar, similar to in Sibenik, Osijek, etc. I think it's a small abuse and a political approach. Since we're talking about the budget I'm using this opportunity to say this here not to justify myself but to make it clear to you what this is about. As far as the Peljega Bridge is concerned and 100 million is an item for us, although personally I would have preferred to have remained an item of 200 million, it is important Pelješki bridge and what I read in the newspaper these days and some of our representatives were talking about some corruption that happened there on the highway route, some land was being bought. I'm no one's lawyer, but I just want to tell you something here. Six years of strength, the county spatial plan was mentioned here by the late Mayor of Sprli, during his term of office the County spatial plan of Dubrovnik County was adopted, later and the Municipality of Dubrovnik coast and the route was publicly known to all people in Croatia and beyond. Therefore, no route was set up for anyone. Why someone was buying, who sees this business, I won't talk about it, but the route is familiar, and nobody had any privileged information I want to tell you because they keep dealing with some facts that aren't true. So the highway route is drawn and the route is known. As far as the bridge is concerned, I think I may be repeating it for the third time this morning and several times here in the debate otherwise in the Croatian Parliament, from the chair of the Croatian north or from the chair of Istria or Kvarner or Zagreb is easy to speak. Dubrovnik is very far away and the fact is what a colleague used to say here, Matušić, from Dubrovnik can't really get there. We often have a call from Zagreb at 8:00 in the morning, so please come to the meeting at one. Impossible, there is no chance with a monopolistic Croatia Airlines that has one or two lines a day and with a road like Dubrovnik to Split, it is impossible to reach our capital in Zagreb. Therefore, I think there should be little solidarity here, such as this solidarity tax that we are talking about today and which we are about to adopt these days, so I think it should be solidarity at work when it comes to building the Peljega Bridge and it should not be seen as a luxury, but as a need and as a merger of northern and southern Croatia. I believe that we will insist on this, that the minister in the next rebalancing or budget will take care and that the works are not preserved but that the works continue, since the young colleague has spoken of something, Bernardic, there have already been two rebels, already seen works on the bridge, were not there at the construction site and the fact is that the works are already visible and I believe that we will experience this bridge and we will achieve this bridge by this HDZ government, not as Bernardic SDP said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37731	And Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37732	The fundamental proposal for a rebalancing is to try to reduce the government deficit for this year, means how to reduce the deficit and the proposal is to reduce the deficit with this tax, income tax and VAT increase and still remains almost 10 billion 900. And now we're asking ourselves whether the problem is income or expenditure. And what is important for all Croatian citizens, we spend this year over 120 billion kuna as a state. 120 billion. Not until after third rebalancing more than last year. After the third rebalancing. Not just more than last year, 120 billion even though they've cut salaries, even though we won't coordinate pensions. So back to the pensioners and the workers, but still 120 billion. That's a fact. Of course, there's still a matter of solution, and we have income. This year's revenue will be only 110.9 billion. Everything. With these new taxes that... So with new taxes, a new burden of 110 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we wonder if we can increase those revenues. These revenues can only increase production, only it. Did we get an indication of how the economy and economic work will move next year? And I guess we can figure it out today. We have neither reduced their health contributions nor reduced their enormous burdens through non-taxable burdens, nor reduced the expenditures of the administration, nor provided them with liquidity. We have not addressed the liquidity problem or the source of liquidity by state firms and the state budget at all. So, we haven't solved any economic problems, none, and we're approaching the end of this year. So, what this next year's production will respond to and further by stopping production, by stopping investments. Will we then have economic growth next year? So what measure is that, we say, there are no anti-recession measures in either the third or the third rebalancing, and we didn't have one in the first. No measure is facing the economy, there is no growth in the economy, we can't expect even the slightest reduction and there is no higher income, so it's hard to expect this 110 billion next year. It's hard to expect. And now we're wondering if it's hard to expect, if really every one of us is reasonable that the state doesn't encourage, that this government, the Ministry of Economy, has no incentive for this growth of the economy that will secure revenue, which we're going to do with expenditures and then we're going back to this one I'd say the tragic figure of 120 billion that we're spending. 120 billion. Can we turn it down? Then it is enough to take because we are otherwise ignorant, illiterate, unprofessional in the opinion of our minister, an analysis of the public finances of the World Bank, and refers to the Republic of Croatia in February 2008. So let's start by talking about this analysis. You see, those big ones, we haven't solved the pension system. We haven't worked it out. Imagine, the World Bank says we have the poorest pensioners with the lowest incomes, but the problem is a huge number that goes below 65 years into the pension system. Did we deal with that in Parliament? We didn't. If we didn't deal with it, would we cut that part? We won't. It says the same thing here. The new pension system with savings is imperfect, it is dangerous, giving even poorer pensioners, they say they should increase the rate and this state budget will cost an additional 2.2 billion. So it's all written to us. Worrying about the pension system will cost a few billion. So next year, if we want to deal with poor pensioners, and today the government has also confirmed that the poor, 900 thousand of them will not be taxed. 900 grand. So we have the poor, that's what everyone tells us. That's what we care about. Are we dealing with this? No, I don't. So new expenditures, not spending cuts, new expenditures. Shall we talk about the health system? Also criticises the World Bank, more and more unpaid accounts, more and more institutions do not pay, are irrationally organised, we do not know the quality of consumption, and we say wrong funding. The worker finances a complete health system, instead of transferring it to property and finding some solutions. There's no solution. What does that mean? You've got another one. No cuts, cost hikes. Shall we move on? Shipbuilding, shipbuilding. So much money invested. Are we done? We didn't. Shall we talk about the railroad? The minister boasts of figures, figures, figures, and let's read state records of State audits. What's standing there? Infrastructure money is spent on wages, completely irresponsible and uncontrollable, a huge problem. We'll have to work it out. It's extra charges and expenses. It's a railroad solution. Shall we talk about agriculture? Additional commitments for agriculture. What are the results? Production reduction, export reduction. So if that's what we want to do, are those extra costs? They did. Not to come to the administration, especially described. An enormous number of employees. You know, it even says in here, imagine, that the state was moving to local environments, to local self-government, a series of jobs, but it was reducing civil servants. That's even what it says here. And we seem to forget it. That's what we wrote with our regulations. We've brought everything, but we've increased, we've increased, we've increased. And there's something else written. That administration isn't well-paid. She's not well paid. It's too large, it's inefficient, it's deliberately obstructing the economy, and it's underpaid. Yeah, that's what the World Bank's analysis says. What does that mean? Taking care of the extra cost. Raising the salary average costs. I won't go any further. I won't go on because I can, because every item of our budget is described in which part is irrational. We've had that analysis for a year. For a year, our government won't read that document. He doesn't have to agree to everything. But what's the conclusion? The 120 billion kuna expenditure in the Republic of Croatia is not the final figure. If there's anything we want to do, it's got to be a bigger number, and who's gonna pay her? Who's gonna pay that 125 billion tomorrow? Who? When the economy with its full stop to investment, full stop, reduction and current processes will give less than 110 billion. And that's your answer. Deficits, deficits and deficits. And again, we're going to be in debt this year for 10 billion. How much next year? And that is then the biggest problem of Croatian finances. Total imbalance between income and expenditure. That is why we warn that this measure is not the solution. It's not a solution to this measure. It's just imposing obligations again on work, regardless of whether they're workers or pensioners. And again, the burden of someone who isn't to blame for our unhappiness. That's the problem with the government. The government has not resolved any crucial issue of how to take care of finances in the Republic of Croatia. We have not brought our consumption into line with an economy that cannot bear this burden and which is not prepared to be competitive. It's irrationally burdened with all possible taxes, all possible taxes, all contributions, and at the same time we're creating poor people, and that's why it's a failure. The failure that will reflect the future of citizens next year, and that is why when we talk about this proposal of the state budget, we say it is no solution, it is not even a short-term solution. He does not touch any of the problems of the Republic of Croatia. We try nothing to solve it, not the economy, not the pensions, not the health system, not the excess administration, not the Croatian indifference. Such solutions that do not solve and such proposals made by the Government and do not solve any of these problems must lead to a complete collapse and, of course, a further burden. We'll see about that in the 2010 state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37733	Thank you. 5 minutes of debate, SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37734	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President, Minister of Finance. We're going back to the beginning, so as the finance minister said, if it hadn't been for this crisis, the budget would have been balanced, the analogy is worth it if I hadn't gotten sick, I'd be healthy. But I got sick. And then if I got sick, the question that needs to be asked is how much I contributed and how responsible I am for my health. Yes, yes, and how resistant my organism is to cope with the disease because not everyone reacts in the same way, so Croatia reacts differently from some others, does not react well. These amendments, or budget rebalancing, do not lead in the desired direction, are our attitude, and that is why, as we have announced, we have made the effort to show ourselves that savings can be made, or savings may not even be the right word because you are saving something you have. We don't have this. You can save what you earned, what you put aside, this doesn't exist. This is rationalization. That it is possible for procedures in the existing budget to save more than the state will take these new taxes and taxes and that, even if these new taxes and taxes are not going, and we suggest that there is no going, there is again a difference with the savings that we propose 400 million kuna in favour of Croatian citizens and taxpayers. Look, think about it. You probably won't, but this is the beginning of a serious story that we just have to agree to together and realize that it's necessary. You didn't say a single word about what the Croatian budget should look like in 2010. What are we talking about? What rate of growth do we predict? A slight recovery is expected in Europe, especially in the countries of continental Europe, slightly less in the UK, but forecasts and projections for Croatia are not so good. Are we optimistic if we're talking about a zero growth rate or is reality something else? All of this will have major decisive effects on the 2010 budget. Today there is also a prime minister, today both the prime minister and the finance minister said that this is the beginning of work on the 2010 budget. We don't see that. We don't see what it's about. Tell us those things. Where and in which direction are we going? Obviously, downwards. How far down? Where it's going to have to work, and I'm not going to say cutting, I'm going to have to say meeting reality. Those are the main questions. So, this time we are to prove not to make any justice, to show that it is possible to save more than you will save for these burdens that will harm the economy and citizens to income, to submit amendments half a year ago or more than half a year ago in the debate on the original budget. We didn't do it because we claimed we'd end up here where we are today, in trouble, because of an unreal high budget. So this is our proposal, consider it, and we expect a serious debate on the 2010 budget to begin, if this government holds until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37735	Thank you. 5-minute debate, HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here we came to the end of the marathon debate in which we at least discussed the budget, and most of all about possible extraordinary elections. If such discussions were conducted in other parliaments, the crisis would take another 10 years. In other parliaments of other countries that are in deeper crisis than Croatia, the budget is more discussed than coming to power on a non-democracy path. However, we should look back at the proposals we received 10 minutes ago, and these are the proposals that Mr Milanovic was now talking about, in which they suggest not to be saved, as suggested in the rebalancing that we discussed, but to remove some of the items. I would just mention a few big things that were actually parallel between this SDP proposal and those proposals that we had in the previous budget rebalances. It's typical of proposing the abolitions that actually mean the collapse of the state budget. I'll only tell you two key examples. 500 million kuna is proposed by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, 500 million kuna or half a billion reduction of infrastructure projects. What does that mean? It's a translated loss between 20,000 and 30,000 jobs. The loss of 20,000 jobs means one billion kuna for the state and social contributions and contributions to the Employment Office. So this isn't minus 500 million, this is plus one billion. Plus a tragedy of 20,000 families who would lose their foster parents. The second major item is the elimination of 500 million kunas on the so-called so-called ". intellectual services. What are intellectual services? They actually gave themselves a lot of effort, so then they listed in the explanation 100 intellectual services, maybe more, that would be abolished. Intellectual service isn't paying for fog, it's paying for intellectual services. What is an intellectual service for those who did not run the ministries? It is the development of plans and projects for all that will be done by the end of the year and for all that is being prepared for the items of the budget for next year. She laughs at her colleague Ingrid Anticevic for her intellectual service because she didn't understand what an intellectual service is. That's what someone with their knowledge steps into the project, determines its limits, guidelines, calculates its capacities. Without intellectual services, no projects next year, no employment, no production, no budgeting, no no budgeting. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37737	Let's not open in these tiny hours. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37738	This isn't a conversation, this is a monologue. I speak for the club. And we can talk later in front of the Parliament, you and I.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37739	Gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37740	So as for intellectual services, removing these intellectual services, I, of course, now in a hurry, couldn't calculate financially, it'll probably be the ministry by tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. It's another huge loss, because it stops absolutely all development projects, which means it stops the ministry's work for the next few months at least. Therefore, I think that in the next adoption of the budget and the rebalancing, there will no longer be a focus on the scale of things, but should be ignored for a moment for a few hours by the viewers and viewers of Croatian Radio Television and in the heat of their discussions put the interest of the Croatian state at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37741	Thank you very much. Gentlemen. It was a gentlemen's agreement that there was no correction. ... Let's be wide. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction, Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37742	I have to correct a colleague of Hebrang who says that 500 million less for infrastructure, and especially that is rail infrastructure means less investment, less jobs. If you read the State Audit report, you'd see it's less for wages, because that money can't go to pay and that's the problem of the ministers sitting on the board of directors. Therefore, none of the Croatian economies will lose their jobs from Croatian businessmen. No one. It is only a problem of non-functioning of Croatian railways and 500 million you have no right to throw away when you two have been warned by the State Audit to spend money unintendedly. And that's why our infrastructure is like this, and that's why our tragedy is like this. And it wouldn't be about intellectual services, because you know they're being paid by civil servants. And we know that. You pay state officials who do intellectual work, even though they're 180 hours a month on the payroll. And deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37743	Final review, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37744	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, thank you all for the debate, and I'm going to show you how you missed the position you're talking about, but I'm saying I don't want to open the debate right now. You'll get a detailed answer, but I mean Slavko, don't be angry, I think you're wrong about the thing you were talking about, but I'm telling you, I don't want to open up the debate right now. When there's an answer to the amendment we'll say exactly what position it is, but... I'm glad that the two of us ended this session today, that there was no fire, that's a big deal, but Mr. Milanovic said there were no indications for the 2010 budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let me just have two three sentences. All of us this year are witnessing how many changes there have been in the assessment of economic growth. And I think it was extremely unserious to talk about these projections when nobody's alive in the world. There's only speculation. But methodologically, no one has them. We're only going to find out at the beginning of the ninth or half of the ninth, what economic growth was in the second quarter, because that's the methodology. So, what is certain is that in the next two months we will have intensive consultations on the 2010 budget. But we'll also try to explain to you in detail your amendments, Mr. President of the SDP, I think I'm sorry to apologize for the words, but those who have done the amendments, unfortunately, do not know the budget, don't be angry. Mr. SDP President, that's exactly why I told you to see it. You didn't concisely fuck, and the finances are looking for a conciseness. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37745	We move on to the 2009 proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Proposal for amending and supplementing the 2009 financial plans Croatian waters and Croatian roads. The debate is closed. You've been assigned a review of the amendment to the bench. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. First, the SDP representative club, the first amendment relating to the 61 tax revenue group.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37746	Therefore, the first amendment is not accepted by the Government for the reason that a reduction of 257 million is proposed, and there are no proposals for a reduction in expenditure, and such an amendment is technically inconclusive and not in line with the Budget Act. So the Budget Law clearly defined that when an amendment is submitted on it must be contained in these items, yes, but let me, if I can explain a little more widely, that there would be no confusion. If the SDP club had submitted all its amendments as one amendment, then they would have been technically harmonised and would have been in line with the Budget Law. However, you will see that many, many things are technically not in line with these amendments, starting with the amount, etc. Therefore, "Article 38(2) on the budget found that the amendments submitted could be accepted on the condition that, with a proposal to increase expenditure and expenditure, a proposal for a reduction of other expenditure and expenditure should be made at the same time in a specific part of the budget. However, if this amendment is seen in the context of all other reductions and expenditure, it does not correspond to a approximately reduction in income." And now this is the key. The total proposed revenue reduction is a billion 257 million and the total proposed expenditure reduction is a billion 695 million." So you'll see later. With the fact that it is not clear at all how much a reduction in expenditure is really proposed, because when the total amounts mentioned in the text of the amendments are seen, and those that are received by the sum of the amounts proposed by the reduction in the items, you will see this later, which are the expenditure on intellectual services in the contributions to the amendments, that is, for example, 500 million kuna. And when individual items are summed up that total amount should be explained, they indicate that, precisely in these expenditures, the proposed expenditure is equal to 116 million kuna. So, you said for intellectual services that 500 million should be reduced and then you suggested 116 million for the proposal to cut resources by intellectual services. So there's a difference of 384 million, and when I talk about this amendment for intellectual services, then I'm going to explain it wider, I don't think there's any need to explain it anymore. So that's why we can't accept the 1st amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37747	Thank you. On behalf of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37748	Thank you, Mr. President. So the minister reads the provision of the State Budget Act and talks about increasing expenditure. So if we increase expenditure, we have to cut certain items. We don't increase expenditure here, we reduce income and expenditure here. We propose not to apply the Law on Special Tax on Payments and Pensions and, on this basis, to income 502 million kunas and to increase the value added tax rate of one index point and, on that basis, to pay 755 million and to VAT 502 million kuna. We explain this in a way that such a decision will have long-term consequences because it will reduce the standard of living of citizens, because it will reduce consumption, increase inflation, the consequences of everything will be even less production than it is now, so also the decline in production, the decline in social gross product, the decline in employment. So more negative effects than positive effects. The only positive effect is the greater revenue in the budget that will then follow all of this negatively I said. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37749	Thank you. Who is for this SDP amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The SDP representative club submitted an amendment in Article 2 of its operating expenditure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37750	Therefore, this amendment proposes reducing expenditure on office materials and other material expenditure by an additional 86.9 million. But let's look at what this suggests to reduce. Activities of the operation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia costs for uniforms. Will our soldiers on NATO missions go in jeans and shirts and their shoes? We're gonna go back to the '90s or let them say how to put these people on and how to equip them. One thing, police equipment activity, police uniform costs, and police are cut off expenses for uniforms. The law on police defines mandatory adoption of a Regulation on uniforms of police officers without amending the laws and regulations of such reductions in the budget is not possible. And that is now you will see a series of proposed reductions that simply cannot happen because the law has already defined what must be. Office material of the Croatian Parliament, Tax Administration, Customs, Financial Police, Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Since the prescribed part-round work of users and written communication with citizens cannot be compromised in this way by their regular business. In addition, the proposed reduction of 2 million kuna is spent, so the reduction is not possible and 2 million kuna refers to expenditures financed from other sources of income and their commitment should also be reduced with a reduction in the revenue side. I realize that the structure of the treasure is at a far higher level than it was a few years ago and that those who haven't worked the budget is generally very difficult to follow all but since the treasurer is on the fifth level then you have to follow the expenditures of that general section over the division, etc., and then you'll get to this data that we're talking about. Second of all, most of the expenditure is related to the income side. So, you have on the income side of the income that's coming for it and on the expenditure side you have to say counter-party expenditures that have to be carried out on the basis of these revenues, and you simply can't change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37751	I can only speak to the representatives of the club who submitted the amendment. Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37752	The SDP club proposes to reduce the material costs that can be reduced because it is evident that expenditure was planned in 2008 when we were bringing this budget and when we didn't think about it because the minister didn't know how to direct us to a recession, he couldn't tell us that the economy would have this many negative trends. And if he didn't know then today when he became aware I think the entire government should have understood the necessary reduction in material expenditure at all levels. Unspent funds by the end of the year show that this reduction is both realistic and possible, but ministers need to do the job. But instead, these same ministers feel that they should not do it, that it is not good to do it, that it is good to spend and that it should only be taken away from the citizens of Croatia. And that's why we have to take the citizens of Croatia. We're trying to tell the citizens that 3,000 is already the amount to be taxed. And why the citizens of Croatia? Because ministers do not want to give up the way in which they planned to spend in 2008 when they did not dream of what Croatia would enter. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37753	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The same club on Article 2 of Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37754	Thank you very much. But I must say that the laws are clear. If someone doesn't like that they don't know the laws I'm not guilty of, and how contradictory is Mr. Linic in what he just said he's not taking the citizens you'll see in Amendment 3. Therefore, the club of representatives proposes to reduce the position of a probarian information service in the amount of 80 million. And now the amendment does not clearly show how much the reduction in these expenditures is really proposed because if the total figure is mentioned in the amount of 80 million kuna and in the individual paragraphs is the total amount of 49.9 million is asked the question from which items you will remove this 21.1 million. Out of the proposed 49.9 million kunas, 7.5 million kunas have been spent and savings are not possible and 13.5 million kunas relate to expenditures financed from other sources and are simply impossible to reduce. And you will see this by the end of the interpretation of all amendments that unfortunately you have such things that you are proposing to reduce the expenditures that are intended to be financed by special revenue on the revenue side of the budget and you can't do it if someone has received money from this or from that basis in the revenue side, if that's the program you can't reduce it, and now I'm going to tell you what these reductions are about and you'll see no matter what. Therefore, it is proposed that for Roma agreed at international level in all countries for decades of Roma, the Republic of Croatia should obviously be excluded from one such initiative launched at the world level. This was proposed by the SDP amendment. It is proposed that the funds provided by the International Community, that Croatia does not give those funds to the Roma in Croatia, and all international communities have given it. ... It's yours, sorry ladies and gentlemen, it's your amendment that you wrote, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can see. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Also, a national road programme that is educational and particularly important for schoolboys and warning drivers. Diplomatic and consular representations that are extremely important for the promotion of Croatia in these times of crisis should not stop. Well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37755	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Ms. Vice President Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37756	Dear colleagues, Mr. President. Of course, all of this as a technical objection allegedly, and some of the minister's content objections as reasons why the amendments are not accepted, absolutely do not stand. Nor is this amendment proposed to finance activities that go in favour of the Roma, nor is any of the other things the minister has said proposed. Every item that speaks of promotion and information has been carefully reviewed, estimated how much has been spent in six months. It was left for by the end of the year to spend more or more. None of the items or almost any of the items shall be deleted, but simply expenditure on promotion and information shall be reduced individually by item and by total for the entire budget of 80 million. That's the real truth, and all this other stuff is just insinuation, stupidity, and trying to find the right reason to reject it. For example. The government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of the Prime Minister have two items, in six months they spent the entire budget, more than 300 million kuna only for promotion and information. Normally, we didn't predict another 300 million for them, because it doesn't serve anything else but to convince this people that they're actually doing very well. And the only thing that can be done is not knowing how to deny those expenditures that are really necessary and not in absolute sizes, but simply to reduce them as proposed by this amendment, but rather to continue to be spent on those items. Because believe me, by accurate analysis of these particular items of promotion and information, I've come to the conclusion that it's the best item for money laundering on unnecessary expenses. I don't mean that laundry in the right sense, but where the real abuse of funds hides.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37757	Thank you. Let's avoid these terms like nonsense and stuff. I think we can say it a little differently, that's my principled point of view about everything and that. And now I put this amendment to SDP number 3 in article 2 of the operating expenditure on a vote that the government does not accept. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 4, SDP Representatives' Club in Article 2 of the operating expenditure, 323. Services expenditure. Please state to the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37758	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I would like to clarify for the sake of the Croatian public. We've just changed the SDP's amendments to the budget and you'll see from this example that unfortunately that's the problem that some things aren't well looked at. Therefore, the amendment states expenditure on intellectual services, a reduction of 5 million is proposed. However, when the individual items attached to the SDP amendment are summed up to exactly 116.1 million kuna at that time. You contributed to that amendment and specified items. Therefore, it is obvious that the actual savings per budget of these expenditures amounting to 5 million kuna cannot be found. Because if you suggested 520 million, and you specified 118 million, these other 320 million can't be reduced because you didn't write where to cut it. The second thing, out of the 116 million, 18 million were spent and savings were not possible. 2 million again refers to specific expenditures related to the revenues of the state budget and now look at what is proposed to be taken down, and it is again prescribed from the SDP's amendment that we don't fight here, because nobody invented this, it's simply what you wrote. Veli, care for psychologically ill adults and children, custody services of minors and a program of carrying out joint work with children at risk, representation before the International Court of Justice, so this is the defence of Croatian generals, anti... That's what you'll see. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Anti-corruption strategy, implementation of measures and activities, conduct of judicial proceedings under the jurisdiction of county and municipal courts. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in no way prepared to reduce funds for mentalally ill persons and custody... Look, gentlemen, you wrote it, I'm just reading what you wrote. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] You wrote all this, look... Look, you can yell all you want, I'm talking about a position called caring for mentally ill adults and children. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] That's what you wrote to take it off. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37759	On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37760	So first of all, we propose to reduce intellectual services, and not to care about mentally ill persons, and that the system, those people who are employed in the system continue to care about them. But this is about the next one. This government is ready to take the last kuna from the citizens in their pockets, and it's not ready to sting or bite. If our bill doesn't work, there's no 500 million, but 126, you've come to 100 million by seizing your account. I think citizens would be perfectly happy if you were to burn 100 million, but for intellectual services by the end of the year it takes 800 million kuna. That's more than you'll get from citizens on the payroll and on pensions. Therefore, a hack does not need to pay salaries and pensions for intellectual services. Intellectual services are specific contracts for work, writing studies and programmes that later end up in a number of drawers of numerous ministries and numerous agencies that are never followed. Therefore, there is no will to save here, there is only a will to take from the citizens. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37761	It would be good to put that word in a context, in addition to the word "harras, harras, hare, harras, or worse," and then have some meaning that word that you use all the time. You have inaugurated it as the most important word in the last 15, 20 years in the Croatian Parliament. But it's all procedure, so I'm putting this amendment to a vote that is otherwise not accepted by the government. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. Amendment of the SDP Club in Article 2(2) to Article 329(2) of the rest of the unremarked operating expenditure?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37762	Another amendment that does not know the functioning of public finances and expenditures at level 5. So, what should be taken down is not consistently explained and we can talk whatever we want, but the SDP gentlemen, you wrote it, it's mirrored. Here, here, for example. On this amendment, you are suggested that the National Minority Council has a total plan of 8 thousand kunas, and you are proposing a reduction of 50 thousand kuna and it is written in your amendment, I did not make that up. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37763	Okay, you don't need that. I ask that a precise and brief explanation be made of the amendment, and then that the representative of the club may comment on it. Here you are on behalf of the club, Mr. Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37764	This amendment proposes that the government at all levels deny representation. It's symbolic because you don't need a team. That symbolism is possible, possible. The government and that part refuse. There are very clear messages. There is no reduction, and nothing wants to give up because it is easier to reach for the money of Croatian citizens who live from their work, who live from their pension. They will be taken, and neither team will give up. Those are the words of the government's representative, the finance minister. Therefore, symbolically, at least of that representation, an insignificant amount. But as you can see, it's not giving up, either. What do you say to such behavior? Unacceptable behavior. It could be 100% crossed by the national team, 100%, spent, spent. But there was no need to continue to be spent because citizens who receive 3,000 kunas who are not allowed to live charge an additional tax to cover this minimum remaining team. And that's why the SDP club is asking for a vote to try and see if we in the Parliament support a government that won't give up spending teams by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37765	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment that the government doesn't normally accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Amendment of the same club on a business facility?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37766	The government doesn't accept. I'll say something again. The government is only responding to the proposed amendments proposed by the SDP club, and the SDP club is talking about something that has not been written and can be seen from all documents and I will insist until the end of these amendments solely on the answers to the amendments that the SDP Club wrote because it is my duty and duty. You're like the Minister of Finance. I can't let you make this up. Because someone doesn't like that he missed some things, I can't decide. Listen, for example. This amendment. So you propose to reduce the amount by 160 million, and when the individual items are summed up and the total amount should be explained by indicating which individual expenditures this applies to, a sum of 170 million kuna is obtained. So you suggest 160, you get 170. Listen now, out of the 170 million kuna this year, 26.5 million kuna has already been spent. How can you reduce that? Not at all. These savings are not possible, and 112 million relate to expenditures financed from other sources and you can't cut it down, gentlemen. That's just impossible. So look what you're proposing. You are proposing a complete abolition of the construction and restoration of schools which is a special project agreed with the World Bank. It's a project that's been agreed with the World Bank and you just can't cut it. You may now explain your amendment as you wish, but you wrote it like this and I am obliged to answer you as a legalist in this way. And the construction and equipment of a penitentiary in Clay. That's your suggestion. So, on the one hand, you suggest one amount, it's analytically larger, on the other hand, 26.5 million, on the third hand, are already spent, it's a project with the World Bank that simply cannot be broken up and cannot be suspended. These are assets that have their own income and their own expenditure side.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37767	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37768	The SDP club repeats again, we have planned construction and business facilities by the end of the year. We also believe that before reaching for additional taxes, the construction of these facilities had to be delayed for Croatian citizens. It was supposed to be delayed. The government is very clear with its reasons for this amendment, we are not giving up. We're not giving up on that either. There's no change. It is easier to reach the citizens and take additional taxes on their modest incomes so that they will not know how to close their monthly financial situation. How to close your monthly budgets because the government wants to keep its budgets on the burden of those who have to pay, and these are people who live off their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37769	Thank you. Please also, I have asked the minister to concentrate on the exact amendment which is also written, please refer to the specific amendment that is concerned, not the general position. Who's in favor of this amendment that the government doesn't normally accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. SDP representative club, 7th amendment, office equipment and furniture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37770	So we'll probably hear the same argument from the club again. I again answer as a legalist to what is written in your amendment. So you've suggested a reduction of 58 million 540 thousand kuna. 4.3 million kunas have already been spent, and 17.2 million kunas again refer to special sources. And as at the previous point, Mr. Representative, you can't reduce it, you can't spend it on something else. Therefore, if you have the funds on the revenue side you have to have right on... foreign, the cost of these funds for which you received them, and among other things you suggest a reduction for computer communication infrastructures in schools and universities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for the land of knowledge. CARNET, availability. ... No, it's not over. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, I didn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, CARNET’s availability to students, editing and equipping judicial authorities and modernising the agricultural system for compliance with the legal acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37771	On behalf of the club, Vice President Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37772	This item of investment in computer programmes refers only to part of the total investment in the information of all sectors in this country. These 70 million are minimal restrictions and still very carefully done in order not to violate already started investments, so as not to violate what is needed to maintain and preserve continuity. All of what the minister is saying about investing in a country of knowledge, and so far it's been talked about completely unfounded because all of this huge investment in computer equipment that's been dragged down the halls from schools to all the state offices, and it's all being financed from taxpayers' pockets, has nothing to do with knowledge and investment in knowledge. But that's why it has to do with the weaknesses of public procurement, with all the problems you're calculating in the government yourself, that a billion-dollar circus could be saved if public procurement was put under control. We have certainly kept track of this amendment so that not all those to whom the information of society will bring new income, new knowledge and new prosperity will be denied. But unfortunately, you're not ready, because you don't want to give up exactly that dark part of that kind of investment or that item, and it's about corruption and uncontrollable public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37773	Thank you. We're talking about a concrete amendment. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? The seventh amendment. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The eighth amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, means of transport of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37774	So again, I'm responding to what the SDP club wrote. It suggests reducing this position by 23.6 million kuna. When summed up by positions, all that needs to be reduced, you get the total amount of 16 million kuna. So that's the difference between 7.6 million kunas. Of this proposed amount of 16 million, 0.7 million has already been spent, and 12.8 million kuna is financed from special and other sources, and you simply cannot reduce it, it is something that is repeated in all your amendments. So, I repeat, as a proposing, on behalf of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia solely for what the SDP Club wrote. I repeat, the Treasury is far, far more organized, far, far more transparent and should be known to read from the general part to the fifth level.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37775	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Please concentrate on a concrete amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37776	So as long as Minister Schuker is trying to say that I'm stupid, because something like this is written, that I'm illiterate because I can't read what he writes, I'm going to let myself speak exactly as the minister communicates with me. Because from the first moment, I would say so. ... Yes, yes, on behalf of the club I speak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] From the first moment the club even gave amendments to Shucker was making fun of the club. And he's trying to send the citizens of Croatia an illiterate, unspeakable message. He's the only one who's written and professional. And why are we here today? That we have to take extra taxes to the citizens. Only because he could not assess Croatia's whereabouts in 2009, so now, due to his mistakes in recent years, an additional tax has been introduced to citizens on receipts of 3 and 6 thousand kuna. And it's not just a tragedy to introduce extra taxes. But here it is, Minister Schuker shows that neither on the means of transport nor on the cars is to be saved. You don't have to. And he'll find reasons why he shouldn't. And as you can see, he likes to add that we're illiterate. But that's what he and the citizens are telling. We won't be saving, but we're in writing to take extra credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37777	Thank you. We had a general discussion, etc. all day on the budget. We are now pleading on concrete amendments, and we need to talk about a concrete amendment, and I don't know what. So please be nice. That's what I'm asking the minister to do, and that's what I'm asking from whoever wrote the amendment to concentrate on the amendment. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The Ninth Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP refers to investments in computer programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37778	The government does not accept for the simple reason, which is what you propose by the proposed amendment to reduce 70 million, and when you add up the items by which you propose a reduction, you get 46.9 million kuna. From that, 2 million kuna was spent, and 4 million kuna again refers to special funds. And that's what you gentlemen wrote, no matter how much the esteemed representative used difficult terms. I've always been a legalist, and that's what I'm gonna stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37779	On behalf of the club, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37780	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's Minister Schuker here all day explains how it's simply not possible to save anything in the budget. In 6 months, it turns out that Croatia spent until the end of the year. So nothing's possible. It's all spent. So what's it worth to us, those papers that come from the Treasury? Then don't even send it to us, but tell us everything we've spent on citizens we only need to take their money and let's all go home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37781	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 10th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, item one thousand 41.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37782	The government doesn't accept for the simple reason why we can't stop editing the border crossings. Second of all, we have an International Treaty with St. In agreement with the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Finance, the Zagreb Archdiocese signed an agreement to deny 50 million kuna. So, respecting and appreciating these times of crisis. 50 million kuna, sorry. Respecting these times of crisis. And the other thing, again, in order for someone not to say, I don't know what word to use politely without anyone being offended, the law makes it clear to you that you can't reduce the budget stock by amendments. That's what the law says, no matter how angry you are at me or not angry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37783	In the name of the club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37784	The minister has already said which items we are reducing, and I will explain why. We think it is possible to slow down the equipment of the border crossings, as they mainly refer to the preparation of the Schengen border, and Croatia is still far from the European Union. It can be delayed for some other time. For example. for next year. As for the reduction of the works of funds allocated to the Catholic Church and the Government, it proposes 30 million kuna with its amendment. We suggest 80 million kuna with the same explanation. That in a time of crisis when we introduce ourselves to low income extra taxes, when we increase the VAT rate that we will have the understanding that this year is less isolated for the Catholic Church and that it will be compensated in the coming periods. And in 2000 when there was a crisis time for the budget, then the Catholic Church received 180 million kuna, now it came to over 300 million kuna. As for the grant funds for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Instead of 2 million 350 thousand kunas as proposed by the government, we propose a 10 million kuna reduction. I know they need help for education, for culture, for other activities, for health care. But while we are introducing additional taxes in Croatia, while we are removing free textbooks and free transportation to students, something more needs to be saved on that item. So please also vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37785	Thank you. Who is for this 10th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th Amendment of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic to encourage agricultural production of interventions on the market?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37786	This amendment cannot be accepted for the simple reason of the 60 June funds for Croatian highways and Croatian roads. It's defined by the law, why it stands out, how it stands out. Therefore, you cannot re-apply these funds without amending the law to something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37787	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37788	I didn't hear what the amendment was.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37789	It is a 205 million kuna reduction in the position of building transport infrastructure in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37790	Yeah, now I've seen it. The fact is that the Minister of Agriculture who is not here today says that the funds for farmers have increased. Inside the ministry he was taking from one item to another. It's as if you're taking these farmers and peasants out of your right pocket and asking if you'll give them that money back in their left pocket. I would ask you to vote on this amendment and fulfill the promises you made during the protest before the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37791	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12th Amendment of the same MPs to position K568 Water Supply Project.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37792	The government does not accept because it is not possible to provide the funds in 2009 and to implement them because of the non-preparation of investment-technical documentation and unsecured property-legislative relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37793	Thank you. On behalf of the representative, Mr. Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37794	Here are the SDP gentlemen who make amendments and claim the government can't save. He can save from all the investments in the plumbing, in the regional plumbing. It's only taken by Slavonia 4 million kunas. Although it is known that Slavonia has although the richest water is the most water problem. Our children drink bad water there. Most villages and settlements don't have water. They drink water from wells, bad water and by the statistics of the most renal patients caused by this very bad water, it comes from Slavonia. You take this 4 million kuna for a regional water line that you have been announcing through the media for weeks and months, and you prevent the water supply ring between the three counties from being resolved in this way that would solve the water problem greatly in Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37795	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 13. A SDP representative club at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and at the point of construction of transport infrastructure?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37796	The government can't accept it for a reason that's purely legal. So, coalition government, don't call me back now to call for some time, in 2001 passed the Law on Public Roads. The law stipulates that in the price of a liter of gasoline, 60 limes stand out for Croatia's highways and 60 limes for Croatia's roads. I am sorry that in all our budget bickerings, colleagues from the SDP did not notice that all the revenues of the state budget were consolidated, that hundreds of those sub-accounts that existed and that these 60 highways and roads only pass through the state budget to register and at the position of the Ministry of Transport, infrastructure is recorded and practically the same day are paid into Croatian highways and Croatian highways. And colleagues and colleagues, if that was a great move in 2000 to build a highway, then let today be the revenue for the construction of the highway. On the other hand, let's not say that Croatian highways have so many unpaid bills, and now you're taking away 500 million kunas. And that's just another piece of evidence without insulting anyone, and I have no intention of that, because I've never done that before in my entire life without knowing the functioning of public finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37797	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37798	On behalf of the SDP club, we have proposed a reduction in transport infrastructure of 500 million. Unlike many in the administration, part of the SDP advocates often follow lectures we hear from people who deal with the problem of bringing Croatia's regulation into line with the European one. And one of the biggest grudges of these same experts is a huge failure in public procurement. A huge failure in public procurement. It is their estimate that a billion kuna is saved annually on it. We're proposing 500 million. On the other hand, the SDP club is very often critical to discuss individual reports. The State Audit report shows that in Croatia the money allocated for infrastructure is not used for investment in infrastructure but for regular expenditures and salaries of managers in Croatia. The ministers who are on the board of directors know all that. It's all the reason we have these... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37799	Please, don't rule out counsel. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37800	All of this shows that we have such enormous expenditures in the state budget for which the ministers correspond. And the efficiency of spending tax money does not exist and this is also the knowledge available to Minister Shuker and others. But by the end of the year, it doesn't mean to change. Ministers do not intend to change the way these funds are spent, and that is why a tax has been introduced that must again be paid by the poorest ones who pay all of this out of their work. That is why the SDP is proposing an amendment and asking for a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37801	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14th Amendment of the same club of representatives to the item of purchase of certain properties for the account of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37802	It's probably my fault again because the SDP club is in position 4211 now I'm going to read these housing facilities suggest that the position be reduced by 50 million. However, when you cross that position into the Croatian budget, then you get that these are funds for an action plan to provide former tenant rights holders outside the PPDS and you suggest we reduce the amount of 107 million by 50 million. Therefore, I repeat position 4211 you suggest that 50 million be reduced to provide former tenant rights holders outside the PPDS. That's what you wrote in the amendment, and that's what I'm the only one who can answer. I can't afford to spread answers like it was in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37803	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37804	Yes, we have proposed in that item a reduction of 50 million kuna by leading the way these funds were spent in the first term. The realization of only 27% is then evident as to how people with tenancy rights are taken care of. Since the value of the property has fallen significantly, it was certain that something more could be realized in the first half of the year, and only 27% in 100 and a few million kunas, when 50% of them could have been achieved for the last five months that the full amount would not be realised, so we are asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37805	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15th Amendment of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić and Bora Grubisic at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports co-finance textbooks. Minister Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37806	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government does not accept this amendment for the reason why it is proposed to provide 290 million for obtaining textbooks for pupils and primary and secondary school students at the level of the entire state. These funds are not nearly enough to satisfy such a proposal. I must stress that we have also left with the latest amendments to the Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks the possibility that each year the Government can make a decision on partial co-financing or the purchase of works or complete textbooks if there are financial resources for this. This year, 65 million kuna was provided in the budget to be spent on obtaining textbooks for socially endangered categories. As early as Monday and Tuesday, they are taking instructions to state administration offices by county to act and what to do that those students who belong to this part of the Republic of Croatia ensure in time and receive any money in time, any textbooks for the start of the school year. Among other things, the ministry has organised a whole series of additional activities and we do not expect greater difficulties and problems. Moreover, a large number of textbooks will be in use and I would like to commend Osijek-Baranja County on this occasion because, according to our assessments and field knowledge, this is the county where most textbooks were collected. In fact, schools and school principals were very responsible so that, after the end of the school year in that county, more than 80% of the textbooks were returned, unlike some other counties where this was not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37807	Thank you. Mr. Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37808	I'm not happy with the answer. I think there's a lot of money in the last two years that could have been saved by getting these textbooks. So it was necessary to order textbooks through public procurement, to lead to some uniformity, to reduce that number of possible book choices, which would significantly facilitate the use of these books in the future. Also, I think if you can't already pass such free books for complete students that this time the government could show one social sensitivity, so let's say you cut and save that money but put that free books and secure money that free books have every third, fourth, fifth, etc. a child in a family because the minister himself said earlier that this is a land of knowledge and I think we should provide at least those minimum funds for these weaker financial families in our country. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37809	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 16th amendment of the same representatives to the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the position of the project to implement measures of health-ecology. State Secretary Mr. Drazen Jurkovic will plead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37810	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable MPs. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept that amendment because it is in accordance with Article 4(2). Laws on the protection of the public against infectious diseases of the Republic of Croatia but also of the county, the city of Zagreb, cities and municipalities are obliged to provide funds for the implementation of anti-epidemia measures. The Republic of Croatia, through the Ministry of Health's position, has provided 700 thousand kuna for this purpose in the implementation of health environmental measures. Additional funds should be provided, if necessary, by the local community or county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37811	Mr. Ivan Drmic on behalf of...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37812	Three years ago, former Prime Minister Sanader and members of the government came to Slavonia, where mosquitoes had eaten them well. They then saw to it that it was a problem in Slavonia, that it was not this amendment to my whim, that it was a monster, an elemental disaster, and that this problem would not be solved until the government was financially involved in their resolution. We can't expect the municipalities with 500 grand, a million or a million and a half kuna budget to be involved in one set of solving this problem. A programme has been developed to destroy mosquitoes in Slavonia and Baranja, however, cost a lot of money. Currently, out of all cities, the only City of Osijek is not one way to afford 11 million kunas to pay for the treatment of mosquitoes, with a certain obstruction by the government because it is forbidden to treat it from the air which greatly reduces the effectiveness of such pollination. However, the mosquito flies 18km during the day so that neighbouring poor municipalities that have no money their mosquitoes means within one day or less, send back to the places where he was treated. I think this is one big problem with Slavonia and Baranja, that Slavonia and Baranja are the first to be threatened with this problem in Europe and that the government needs to get rid of the bag regardless of this savings, to help these people to work and live there even in the evening when they let their children out of the house that they don't have to be called against mosquito stings.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37813	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on a proposal to amend...... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What's this about?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37814	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37815	Ten minutes off. We'll continue at 11.05. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. On behalf of the SDP club that's been looking for a 10-minute break, does anyone want a break? Yeah. Mr. Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37817	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Finance. Try to imagine the next scene and set yourself up towards it. So, a middle-class family sits at a table in the middle of the year and a father or mother say dear children, this year we'll save so we don't buy a Ferrari. I'm sorry to mention trade marks, but since they don't have a big share in the market and they can be bought by very few people, I don't think I'm doing a commercial that way. What would you think of such a man? You'd probably think he didn't have it all in his head, if it didn't make any sense what he said, and now let's take it for a moment to the state we're in. It's about that kind of savings. You can't save something you don't have. The term "saving" is used all the time. What we're talking about is not saving, it's facing reality, it's facing reality. We don't have that, we don't have that 11 billion kuna. You're going to Japan, Paris, anywhere. That money doesn't exist. But you can't even give it up, not even that. And what message we're sending here, that's the key to the story. We can talk about nomotechnics, we can talk about the consistency of the proposal with the law, we can talk about 5 billion up or down, you can be right in these objections for some time, but the key question remains what up to the year? What in 2010? In 2010, the budget will be what? How are the contours? You say you don't know how to fill the budget at this point, you say you don't know what the projections of the growth of the social product are, no one knows. We see a slight recovery in Western Europe and America. So we don't have a single answer to the question if today's consumption is $120.5 billion, what should it be next year? And kill your rejection of everything, but everything that's come from the ranks of opposition, all 11 or 12, 10 amendments of the SDP are about you actually not knowing what next year. Nothing is possible to rationalize, I won't say save because you can save what you have. Nothing at all. And that's the key problem right now. That you have no idea what in 2010, nothing at all. That's the answer, that's the question I'd like you to try to answer. So everything we suggest you refuse, it turns out that your power without the 121 billion kuna cannot survive. It's not possible. She's coming in 2010. Tell us, what are the outlines of that budget? It turns out that no less lip can be spent because the collapse of the state, the fall of power, will remain short of these or they, unsettled tenants in the area of special state care, national minorities, World Bank projects. So, it seems to me that you don't have that picture, and as I repeat again, as your former president quoted the Bible and said "for all there is time" or according to King James's Bible "it's all there is a season" and then 10 or 12 comparisons. So we say there's a time for normal relations, but this is not a normal state, the situation we're in is not normal, this is the time for early elections, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37818	Thank you very much. So, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I am voting on the amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 81 votes for, no abstentions and 46 against we have brought amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. What's the score? I find that the decision to give consent has been adopted by most votes, 82 votes in favour, one abstention and 42 against, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, one abstention and 43 against a decision on granting consent in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament proposes a conclusion which reads: the professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, the revisions and additions of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 and to amend and supplement the financial plans before its publication in "The National Journal". I am putting the table to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The board's conclusion was accepted by most votes, 83 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 31 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37819	- Finalizes the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, second reading, P.Z. No. 413 The hearing was conducted by the relevant committees. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister. ... There's no need. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The committees? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. I'm closing the debate. Continuing tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Payments and Pensions and other Receipts with the Final Proposal of the Law, etc. The amendments to the government budget rebalance by 11 p.m. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-27-0.u37820	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. It was a second reading, P.Z. Number 413. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill of law. What's the matter? What? ... The bill was adopted by most votes, 82 votes in favour, no abstentions, and 43 against. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I am concluding the 13th extraordinary session of the Croatian Assembly. I want a pleasant holiday this year that is somewhat shorter for all MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're continuing with the 13th extraordinary session. We move to the 3rd point of the proposed agenda. 3. Proposal for a law on special tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 414 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal to discuss this law in an emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
