ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just have a few short words. So it's about the second and final reading of the bill in which, let's remind you, it's about the proposal to change three things. The first thing is to comply with parallel laws, so by passing a chemical law, jurisdiction over chemicals including one good part of the precursors to be given to the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and one part of the precursor means as substances from which drugs could be produced is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy. This law therefore gives the power to make such amendments fully available to one place, to the Ministry of Health and Social Care for the purpose of keeping registers and timely detections and possible new substances from which drugs could, therefore, be developed. The second change that we are citing is the change in what so far there are certain problems in storage taken and seized drugs that have been the subject of abuse so that, on the one hand, it can be set up to remove these drugs in any form from the possibility and thinking that any abuse in that part might occur in order to reduce the cost of storage of that quantity that has so far been markedly large. You were aware that destruction is regularly carried out, every time thank God is accompanied by the media, and as such this supplement will therefore allow you to during and while processes continue, and when it is no longer necessary to preserve the full amount of seized drugs that it can be destroyed as such. The third thing is a number of nomenclatured types and acts in fact that so far the law has spoken throughout its legal text that it is intoxicating drugs, but one good part of the drugs on the market that we are fighting and their abuses do not belong to the category of intoxicating drugs, and for this reason we are asking that, in fact, we make this statement equal and that, instead of intoxicating drugs, it is a statement of drugs that we clearly and loudly embraced that this legal proposal refers to everything considered drugs as being considered drug abuse as well as abuse of this part. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44215	Thank you. Does the rapporteur want a committee? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the board of Mr. Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44216	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee discussed the law as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. In his opening statement, the president of the proposal introduced the committee members to the reasons for which this law was adopted and to the issues addressed therein. First of all, it is a matter of harmonising and adapting all issues with EU gains, with existing EU models, and especially with regard to the matter of precursors. This means establishing a single surveillance of the precursors with one resolution body to be conducted and to keep records. The existing system of precursor control is divided between the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, and this law suggests that the Ministry of Health and Social Care assumes jurisdiction over the control of the traffic of all things that can be used as surpluses for the production of intoxicating drugs. It is also proposed that a unique information database be led to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology. During the debate, the committee members supported the adoption of this law in view of the need to bring Croatia's model of precurrence control into line with the EU acquis that regulated the area. The first step is, agreeable members of the board, to define the body that will be responsible for the uniform control of the transport of precursors. The current jurisdiction of several ministries and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse has often raised the question of how coordinated surveillance can be carried out and this has been warned by committee members that the main problem is in current legislation. The establishment of the Ministry of Health and Social Care as the competent authority of the control of the traffic of all substances to be used for the manufacture of intoxicating drugs will ensure uniform control and uniform control of the precursors. Given that the Croatian Institute of Toxicology has the necessary information capacities, it is justified to provide that a single information database is kept in the said office, the opinion is members of the Committee. It also supported the proposal to change the term drug intoxication, in line with the name in most European countries and in most EU body documents, with the fact that most drugs are of their own nature and are not intoxicated. After the discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on the control of drug abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44217	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Representative Shima Luchin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I don't know which way in the House we're dealing with abuses, or bringing in acts that should improve the fight against drug abuse, and it seems to me that we're actually dealing with Sisifovsky's business in some way. The more we discuss in this House about drugs, the more the government or this Parliament forms more bodies of offices with greater powers because of drug abuse, at the same time we have the growth of addicts, and trade, and dealers and all of that, so all of those indicators that show that we are not actually successful in this field. As one fact, I can point out, I'm actually not going to talk about numbers. I don't think we need to talk numbers about it today, we all know all about it. I have to say only one fact that, according to research in Croatia, light drugs are used occasionally by 150 thousand people, and that 30% of high school students said that they smoked some kind of grass or consumed some other light drug. These trends are unfortunately getting worse and worse. I'm asking myself and you a question. Is it possible that in this House, in the Croatian government, in an office, in one ministry, we do this job well in the other ministry? Because some logic tells me or common sense if we do a good job, if we make good conclusions when we discuss reports, if we have good laws from the Penalty, I don't know this law, then that would actually mean that somewhere else lies the ace. We may not be good at implementing these laws, or decisions. But it actually seems to me that we're wrong essentially. That we're wrong essentially this law is the best proof. Why? To not get me wrong, this law is good, it's mostly on some technical level and the SDP club will accept it. However, all that is now proposed to change is what we spoke about in this House in the last term several times. Let's just say, I don't know, in the last term, I suggested that drug drugs change into drugs. Because everyone in primary school without saying in high school listened to chemistry, knows the difference between opium and stimulant and that drugs aren't just getting drunk. Let's say cocaine is a type of drug, heroin, etc. The other type of drugs. But now I don't know how many years we finally said we had drugs. The second thing, you remember the argument, even in the last session, was me, and the club seemed to have suggested that the HSP was to be allowed to destroy stored and seized drugs before the verdict was warranted. Unfortunately, it was then rejected with no arguments of any kind in determining a crime. Here we see that you can do that now. We're actually late in all the important fields. Maybe I'll take an example that makes some people drastic. This is what he looks like. So we still have to discuss quietly or in no way the need to decriminalize easy drugs. You see in one good part of European countries, here recently and the freshest that was in the UK, there's actually a different discussion. Actually, there's talk about legalizing drugs. Let's say a highly-positioned police officer actually offered a prescription on drug legalisation in terms of reducing crime. You see, I'm not that you wouldn't get the wrong idea about legalizing drugs, but I am for decriminalization. In that sense, when the government, or the ministry, is particularly glad to me, I can understand that someone at the Ministry of the Interior does not want to accept the difference between easy and heavy drugs, but I do not understand that the Ministry of Health will not be recognised and that there are easy and difficult drugs. I don't think that has anything to do with ideology. So, harder than the one who burns the joint once will actually be the path to severe addiction. Imagine if that were true. If 150 thousand Croats smoke weed, it means that in a few years, if that logic stands, we'll have 150 thousand addicts. Or you want that first piece of information. If we have 30,000 young people who occasionally burn, all Croats will be heavy addicts or a large majority of drug addicts in 10 years. So that's notorious nonsense. Gentlemen and ladies, why is it important to change that fact and distinguish that there are light and heavy drugs? Well, for a simple reason. One way to fight easy drugs and those who consume and those who deal, and the other way to fight heavy drugs, opiates, stimulants, etc. But at the end of the day, I think there's all this in European legislation, and it's all defined in a certain way. Let's just say there's more and more talk about using easy drugs for medical purposes. How are we supposed to do that when we don't have a definition of what an easy drug is? It's impossible for us. And in a number of countries, that's actually what we're talking about. So it seems to me that the key is and that the key should be regardless of the ideological world view, etc., etc. So if you wish to have any political beliefs, let the profession be heard in a certain way. I'm convinced that today you do a survey, at the Ministry of the Interior at the State's Attorney's Office, at the government's Office of Drug Control, to fight drug abuse to get a result, let's just say that you're for decriminalisation, that 80% of the people who deal with this job and who do this job would be for it. I'll say one thesis, I don't know if you'll agree with it. In fact, today in Croatia it's just the government, I mean this kind of political circle actually and the administrative and state circle, just the government persistently at the point of view that we don't need to decriminalize easy drugs. The other day or two months ago, I guess some government official said something awkward about it, and the government immediately picked up a hickey. But gentlemen, until we do, we will not successfully fight drug abuse and we will not have good results. We just close our eyes in front of one fact. As you have light and heavy metals, as you have light and heavy artillery, so you have easy and heavy drugs. You can't admit it. It doesn't have to be written in law, but it's a fact. So, unfortunately, I know that maybe not in a month or a year we're going to introduce this into Croatian legislation just as it took us ten years to see that there are other than opiates and something else, or as it's clear that we had to define that when the drug is stored, that when a part of the criminal procedure is finished that this drug can be destroyed because it reduces abuse, and that ultimately solves some financial issues, it costs too much. Then one of the basic arguments was we don't have some burner, and we know that we have both steel and cement where all of this can be burned together. What worries me is how many young lives will be lost and how many new young people we'll get to become addicts until we realize that we have to change this whole story differently from the beginning. We have to definitely do one more thing and it's an accent to throw at the prevention. A very expensive fight against drug abuse, fighting to save young lives, treating addicts, is much more expensive than prevention. Unfortunately, prevention is very little, and that's actually a little bit of a talk. When children come to talk about it in school and when you tell them there is no difference between easy drugs and heavy drugs, they laugh at you because they know that there are easy drugs and heavy drugs. Since you're going to be taking some classes, I'm taking some sort of banal example to be sure. It seems to me, therefore, that this opportunity should have been used, perhaps in some other things, to amend this law because it could say that we are even more in line with the good work of European Union legislation. I believe that the government will look closely at this amendment that I have submitted and will actually think about one more thing, that it would be very desirable and very important for us to define drug addicts as patients and not criminals, because while we lead them as criminals, unfortunately, the success of this fight on this plan will be left behind for a simple reason because the law of prosecution cannot focus on dealers and real criminals. And one more thing that needs to be solved, and it can only be solved on the Ministry of Health's initiative, which is to definitely consider the need to define and determine what drugs are for the market, and what is drugs for their own use, or if the ministry came out with one rule, and in this way it would actually refresh the case law and it would be possible not to get three years in prison for one "Joint" or one "Ecstasya" tablet. I know that here today we're gonna listen to the discussions all the drugs are the same. They're not just chemically the same, they don't act the same, they don't cause the same effects. So you can say it's all the same. I might as well explain it to you for alcohol. It's interesting to say that beer and wine are food products and that it's advertised, it's not a question to anyone. And we know that the problem of alcoholism in young people is where and where, for example, bigger than drugs. As long as the shots don't advertise, it's already in the gray zone. Therefore, the Ministry's appeal to accept the amendment submitted and I know that nothing can be changed today in this proposal but perhaps you should consider a more detailed turn in terms of defining the problem but also offering a solution to this problem, with where I think the accent should be thrown at prevention rather than repression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44219	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44220	In this country, counterpart Lucin said only the Government of the Republic of Croatia is against drug decriminalisation. It just doesn't stand and it's not true. Many associations and 90% of institutions are against it as well as the largest majority of Croatian citizens. If we were to follow your lead, of course, 100 grand who try drugs won't become addicts, but it's clear to the 100 inhabitants how many people have tried to be future addicts. That's why I think these suggestions of yours are a slippery ground for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44221	It's a claim that it's government and it's not just government. ... It's understood that way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44222	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party's first reading club supported the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse and, of course, that we will do so now when the final bill is adopted because we consider these proposals to be in the wake of the improvement of the functioning of the system in the fight against drug abuse and, of course, by this law, the State Secretary himself mentioned the proposed erasure of the termology "intoxicated", the introduction of a new system of control over the precursors and the reduction of the deadlines for the destruction of drug abuses in such a way that the drug can be destroyed after the necessary evidence actions have been carried out, as provided for in Article 190. The law on criminal proceedings. I'd like to say something generally related to drug abuse because drug abuse is a major sociocultural problem. Dependence on psychoactive substances cannot be seen only through the prism of the public health aspect but also in the context of society in general because it is closely linked to a number of social problems such as unemployment, crime, prostitution, delinquency and other deviations that occur in society. Currently in the world there are 16.5 million people depending on opiates of which 22% of the world's consumption is on the European market. An alarming increase in cocaine addiction in Europe. About 4% of the world's population, and between the ages of 15 and 64, consumed marijuana. It is worth noting, however, that statistics from the United Nations and their Office for Drugs and Crime say that there has been a stabilisation and reduction of drug abuse in the countries of Western and central Europe. Since 1978, the Croatian Institute of Public Health has been conducting the Register of People treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs that monitors all data on people treated for drug abuse in the healthcare system, as well as data on the causes of death of addicts. During 2008, 7506 people were treated in the healthcare system and the total number of patients treated was not significantly changed over the past three years. Although the number of treatment applications in Croatia is stable, the annual data show that the percentage of treatment due to opiate addiction is increasing, while the percentage of treatment is due to the dependence on non-intoxication. Of the 7506 total treated in Croatia in 2008, 5832 people belong to the opiate type of addiction. In the final proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, in particular, we consider the HSS to be an important highlighted chapter 4 concerning the system of prevention of addiction, assistance to an addict and occasional intoxicator. Among the measures to combat drug abuse, it is important to highlight the primary prevention that seems to us through this law neglected. Namely, in the treatment of addicts, a huge step has been made by the foundation of an addiction prevention centre. However, this non-patient system of treatment is often reduced mainly to secondary prevention, i.e. monitoring of methadone substitution therapy and of course buprenorphine. The primary prevention should also play a major role in the services of school medicine, and we in HSS expect the introduction of a health care programme in primary and secondary schools as soon as possible. Despite the lack of expert staff, the role of the centre for prevention of addiction must be systematic education of young people, especially adolescents, in order for the rate of abuse and addiction to be as low as possible. It is also important to highlight Article 48 because, given the long-term experience recognised by European institutions, we consider it necessary to highlight and regularly report all bodies involved in the treatment and rehabilitation of the addict population according to the Central Register of the Croatian Institute of Public Health. Despite the efforts and positive aspects of the therapeutic communities, however, certain communities still do not send reports despite the fact that they receive grants from state institutions. The system of regular monitoring of all those who have been involved in helping addicts, which are mainly NGOs, religious communities, will allow a more transparent system of funding. In conclusion, I want to say that drugs destroy the future of society by killing and destroying the health of our young. But the drug also destroys their families, parents who have to face the fact that their child is addicted to heavy drugs, thefts in their own home, who must watch their child fall from day to day, experience attempts of withdrawals that are often unsuccessful and awakened hope again replace despair and helplessness. Drugs are hell, hell for everyone and for the addict and his family. She is the evil that steals the lives of young people, but also the lives of the whole society. Some of them are still unfortunately happy to rub their hands over the bundles of bloody bills, and I think it's a priority that we do exactly that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44223	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44224	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports the office of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and all that the Office does, and within it and this task force, which has developed Meryl to strengthen the institutional and legislative model of the precurrence control that this law deals with here. The club also supports the amendments to the law in this sense that control of precursors, therefore substances from which drugs can be made, is established in a more effective way as proposed by these legal solutions, and refers to the fact that within the Ministry of Health, in relation to the solution so far, there has actually been a problem of coordination between the Ministry of Health responsible for this matter and the economy, it is exclusively the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and that, within the Ministry of Health, that is, the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the overall supervision is carried out, and that a single database on precursors is run in the Croatian toxicology office. The HDZ Club also supports the solution to this law, i.e. the point of legislation governing the destruction of drugs after confiscation in the way it is now proposed in relation to Article 51 of the applicable law, which in certain ways produces certain problems with the storage and destruction of drugs and its storage. Also, the HDZ club supports the definition of this drug law in the way it is defined that there is no expression of intoxicating drugs, but only the use of the term drugs. I think it is always important on these occasions to mention in general a few words about the problem of drug abuse and to make it clear that drug abuse is a multiple challenge for society and that addiction is linked to different problems, both the entire world population and Croatian society. So it's about poverty and unemployment and prostitution and delinquency, and it's a first-class public health, medical, but also a social problem. It is always important to stress that all trends in the world are reflected in Croatia in a certain way and it is known that more than 200 million people in the world between 15 and 64 have been in contact with drugs in the last year, so over 5% of the world population, and that today's drug abuse control system started a hundred years ago, and that in the Republic of Croatia more systematically, so to speak, it has been implemented since '78. and at the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the keeping of registers of persons treated for active drugs. It is certainly very important to note that the Croatian healthcare system is very effective starting with hospitals, then specialist and consular services. The importance and services of prevention of addiction and outpatient treatment, which is actually one network throughout Croatia, should also be highlighted here, and in the Institutes it is for public health and all those treatment communities and NGOs dealing with this problem. It is also very important to stress that in 2008 more than 7 and a half thousand people were treated in the health system of the Republic of Croatia, that over 77% of them were opiate, that they were actually 23 of the other types of drugs, that the average age of all people being treated in the system was about 30 years. It is also very important to say that 1174 people who, unfortunately, have other diseases that are often associated with risk-related behaviors, irresponsible sexual behaviour, also behaviours that can lead to different infectious diseases before hepatitis, HIV, etc. The mortality resulting from drug use is such that in 2007, we had 165 cases compared to 2000 when there were 77. On behalf of the HDZ Club and this occasion, in addition to supporting this bill, I would like to say that there are no heavy and easy drugs for the HDZ club when it comes to the club and the community's relationship to drugs simply because there is no half-cleaning. There's a category of clean and unclean. We can't say for something that's half clean because all easy drugs are essentially the introduction to heavy drugs and the HDZ club will stay at its position that we should fight drugs in general as one major public-health social evil and there's no division. Drugs are drugs and drugs are the evil we need at the end of the line and win that battle. I have to stress here, regardless of these devastating facts, so this data that I've listed here, that the health system manages to keep under control, so under the control of all those negative consequences of drug use and I would say even in a certain way in a strong promotion that the entire health system is successfully coping with all these consequences. Here again on behalf of the club support all health professionals involved in this fight, but also the ministry and the government that we trust successfully with this deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44225	Thank you. Mr. Shime Luchin, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44226	I'll fix only two false allegations. One is that easy drugs are inevitable as counterpart Bagaric said in the introduction of heavy drugs. Totally incorrect. You can argue with numbers because the disproportionately large number of people who have consumed or consumed light drugs and never come to difficult ones. I don't know about dozens of times the difference. Another incorrect assumption is that the health system is successfully dealing with this problem. If that weren't the case, we wouldn't have hundreds of percent more deaths than overdoses, we wouldn't have fewer and fewer people to cure. Therefore, the health system is not worn. I don't know why we're fooling ourselves here when the facts say something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44227	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. Then Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44228	Thank you very much, esteemed President, Secretary of State, colleagues. Although these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of drug abuse are going towards greater caution and take into account the possible use of substances that can be used for drug use, I believe that the application of this law must be coordinated at a higher level in order for the results to be effective and rapid. Croatia is not alone in this problem and as a well-known transit route should be more strongly involved in a major preventive campaign against drugs at European level, which is the priority of the new European Union action plan by 2012. In the opinion of the European Commission, very close cooperation between police and customs services in the fight against drug traffickers is necessary, as is the establishment of a single European regulation in the fight against so-called anti-trafficking. synthetic drugs. In Croatia, the number of registered addicts in 2008 was around 28,000, which does not in fact show the right state of drug addiction and opiates because there are far more unregistered drug dealers and drug addicts who are doing well on the illegal market. For only the first six months of this year, about 3,000 drug abuse and drug trafficking crimes have been recorded in Croatia. Over six months, 1232 addicts were referred to the prison sentence, which is even more than 1/3 of the total number of prisoners in Croatia. I stress that because the problem of drugs in society is getting bigger and less and less arrested and those who are properly convicted. The Health Minister will prescribe precautionary measures in order to control the manufacturer, but should be very careful in this area. Because through the production of drugs and opiates, especially through the distribution of legal substances that are being abused as replacement drugs, many see the possibility of a fast and easy profit. This is best seen in the phenomenon of the Spice, recognised in its report by the European Medicines Agency, which is a synthetic substance that is not subject to international control and whose health consequences are mostly unknown. But it's easily available through online stores as a plant air freshener. There are a number of forums where customers of similar products share experience on consumption. It is therefore very important that the more urgent establishment of drug databases, opiates and other substances that could be used for these purposes, and the networking of such a base between producers, police, customs, health departments, health institutions, pharmacists and European institutions working to combat drug use and opiates. Croatia must move more decisively to stop the spread of addiction of all species, especially those most devastating for our youth. ... Do a drug test. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For our youth and the future, i.e. Drug addiction. The alert bell has long been ringing in Croatia, so the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and Police, especially the judiciary, must take more effective measures to prevent and stop the increase of drug dealers and drug users in Croatia. It is inadmissible that police or neighborhood police often bypass drug dealers or dealing venues. The violence that occurs more and more often in Croatia, whether it's football fans' group players, whether groups that beat each other in parks, streets, schools, whether they're individuals or they're the most serious crimes, are mostly younger people who consume some of the drugs or substances that create some other addiction. Croatia needs an urgent and high-quality programme, a prevention of addiction that must contain the first and most important programme of prevention of addiction for primary students, especially secondary education, and how to train teachers to work professionally with those children. Secondly, to determine how to treat and rehabilitate addicts in quality, it is therefore necessary to further train experts that we in Croatia do not have enough to implement these programmes. Police must coordinate actions at certain intervals. I will remind, recently, of the action in Serbia that has been, which has certainly produced a positive effect where many drug dealers and drug addicts have been caught. Often control areas of dealing around schools, parks and other places, conduct driver control, not only on alcohol, but also on drugs. I'm calling the police, the police interrupted the fact that when they stop, they only control the alcohol drivers in principle, but they gave up control and drugs. Courts must be stricter in sentenceing and more expedient in court proceedings, propose programmes to assist drug-dependent employees who are under the influence of drugs at work, and have more and more. There is one information that may not be in principle correct, but according to that report we had on drugs for 2008 would somehow be calculated that almost one third of the employees consume various drugs. Whether it's harder or easier as my colleague Lucin calls it, I don't know, but there are more. Through a programme of prevention of addiction to help industrious work, a series of various NGOs working on prevention of addiction and how to help these addicts. At that time, the funds spent to support associations, and only in 2008 will I recall spending more than 80 million kunas or more than 30 million kunas have been spent for the first 6 months of this year, would I say have far more positive results in the fight against addiction than we have so far. And he wouldn't agree with the thesis that fellow Lucin said should legalize easy drugs or heavy drugs. That his thesis would be acceptable to me, only if he had data on how many people who started with easy drugs stayed on easy drugs and didn't consume heavy drugs. Because we know that easy drugs are a prelude to heavy drugs. So we don't have exact indicators of how many people start with easy drugs, and they don't end up on heavy drugs. We can talk about it just like that, because unfortunately that's one introduction. And that's why drugs are drugs. She needs to be stopped. The system needs to be much stronger involved in solving this problem, because it is not the problem of me, you, it is the problem of our future, the future of this country, ultimately and the nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44229	Thank you. The first replica, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go. There are three replicas, Ms. Marija Lugaric, Marin Jurjevic and Šime Lucin. And then, after correcting the incorrect allegations. I call it how someone signed up. If these replicas were reported first, then the first replicas, if the correction is incorrect allegations, then the first incorrect quotes. If the lady checked in first, then she's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44230	Comrade Kunst, while you're already in favour of the fact that there should be educational programs in schools to prevent addiction and you talk about it rather movingly, then I think you should ask yourself how you raised your hand for this year's budget. In this year's budget, funds for school addiction prevention have been reduced by 47% and now 439 thousand kuna is provided as less than one kuna per student. And I think if we're really up for some things then we should be consistent in our attitudes. Because it's easy in this kind of debate to take a nominal stand for something, and when you have the chance to really do something and then forget all those values that you're looking forward to.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44231	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44232	My colleague Lugarić, I don't see what this replica should have been for you at all, because first of all you should know that the funds spent just for drug prevention last year amounted to 80 million, the first 6 months of this year 30 million kuna, and I advocate that in Croatia a drug prevention programme that would cover exactly this part of children, primarily primary schools, and secondary schools. And then if you were to become such a program. There is, there is a new program, but if there is such a program that will address the problem of children in primary school and children's problem in high school, there is no because you don't even have trained staff to do it. Unfortunately, they're not here. There aren't enough of them anyway, so unfortunately all the resources that go, I'm not saying that they're being wasted, it doesn't suck, they're being spent, but this is how one program would spend a lot more quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44233	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44234	Thank you. In my opinion, the best form of prevention would be to change the existing reality, since drug abuse is actually a kind of escapism, of escape from reality. The question we have to ask to solve this problem is why do young people need to run from reality? What does this need to change in the practice of this reality so that people don't need to run away from it? Well, it was drug abuse, alcoholism, or something else. So let us change reality only then will we be able to change the need to flee from it, or what is unbearable in that reality. As far as easy, heavy drugs are concerned, we talk a lot about it really many times, here, as I understand it, is not about legalization, it's about decriminalization. You've been telling your colleague Kunst how less and less caught, that less and less caught large fish, so narcoboss, but statistics are piling up by catching patients, addicts, and then, if you've criminalized them, you're showing them as spectacular and huge successes in persecuting drug traffickers. So it seems to me that's exactly why we need to determine what kind of offense this is. Even I don't think it's about getting rid of it entirely, but you really can't declare someone a criminal because there's one joint, etc., that we're not talking about how the fates of young people can be ruined by opening up files that will follow them as criminals all their lives, and they're really not criminals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44235	Thank you. Answer Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44236	Thank you. My colleague Jurjevic, you're right, whether those children are running from reality or not, I don't know. I know it was just '94. There were 150 thousand young people in Croatia who consumed these various drugs, according to estimates. That's a big problem. I also know that Croatia is a numerically small country, and if it wants to be put to an end so that it can be handled because if bigger countries can do so, then Croatia can. Why am I calling the police again and calling, why isn't he doing his part of the job? In every neighborhood, on every street, there's about who's a drug dealer, who's a consumer of drugs. You've got neighborhood cops avoiding both drug addicts and drug dealers and only those places where the drugs are being dealt. Why? Why doesn't it work when you stop the driver and right now, I know it costs, I know it's all about money, but it shouldn't be saved because it's good for the future of children. And as for decriminalization, listen, she precedes legalization. It's just one step to legalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44237	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44238	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunst opened an interesting topic with one sentence that courts should be stricter. What courts and for what crimes? Say, you have an example like this. In Osijek, a guy gets three years in prison for one joint. So you have another case, in Zagreb you have the verdict of a judge where a large dealer caught himself, who is freed by the argument that it is for his own use, and as evidence is stated that he had no scale in his apartment. Now, how is it possible that such a case law is happening? Well, because our laws are bad. You're saying we don't have exact data on how heavy, how many users of easy drugs end up on the heavy. Yes, you mentioned it yourself. So it's not true that more than 150,000 people are on various drugs, it's about easy drugs. And you'll see, and this can be monitored, about 5% to 6% is the relationship of heavy and easy drugs, or users. Well, we've got to start talking about the right thing already, and then I'm not answering for a correction that legalization and decriminalization aren't the same. Because then it would turn out that the Office of Drugs is the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Legalisation because in their report they talk about the need for decriminalisation, then it would turn out to be the State's Attorney's Office for Legalization because they're talking about decriminalisation, and I'm not telling you that all criminals would tell you that they're for decriminalization for a simple reason because they can't do their job properly because they have to deal with addicts, not drug dealers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44239	Thank you. So he's giving up his corrections? Thank you very much. Let's move on. And the answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44240	Comrade Lucin, the fact is, unfortunately, courts don't punish those who, especially here, are those who deal. They should be drastically, drastically punished for never having to think about drug dealing again. That's the first thing. Secondly, the fact is that we do not now compete over decriminalisation and legalisation and as much as because there is no data, I mean this 28 thousand data you have here in Croatia is currently officially registered addicts who are volunteering, who want to be cured. They are not such a problem anymore, they need to be helped by society etc. The problem is those who hide, who don't want to show up and don't want to treat. But I have one thing to say. And you were Minister of the Interior, today Karamarko and I don't know who all those people who were, no one in Croatia, I don't remember any more significant action, I won't be working here now from this action that the Serbs had, but it's commendable. I don't know how many drug dealers, I don't know how many drug addicts, and they've made it clear that the police are really struggling with it. You could have done the same thing. She can do it today and Karamarko can do it the same. It is not that we do not know in Croatia of 4.5 million people who are the main dealers, from where, so Croatia is a transit route for drugs, where drugs are located etc. We all know, that's all we have to do, but that's all we have to do, so there's a police force, so don't be in the police force, and that's all we have to do, and that's what we're gonna do, because that's the question of our future, our youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44241	Thank you. Let's move on, it's Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44242	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, we have a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the control of drug abuse. Precursors are substances that can be used to make intoxicating drugs. In order to strengthen the capacity of the Republic of Croatia in the fight against drug trafficking and drug abuse, it was necessary to pass exactly this proposed law. In this regard, the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse was established by the Working Group for the Making of Proposals for Measures to Strengthen the Institutional and Legislative Model of Precursor Control. I must also point out that the existing Croatian model of control over precursors differs from the EU system, so it is necessary to take action aimed at adapting the system to the European Union and standards. As an example, the German system is listed. The German system is best in this regard and in it it is the issue of licences for both medicinal products and for precursors in the jurisdiction of the Agency which operates within the Ministry of Health, which is also responsible for the supervision, inspection, the management of a single authorisation database, quantities, species and others. How's that for us so far? The responsibility for the transport of recursors is shared between the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which raises the question of the efficiency of the way it works. This law offers four moments. The first is that the Ministry of Health and Social Care assumes the authority to control the traffic of all substances that can be used to make intoxicating drugs and issue permits for all types of recursors, carry out surveillance, education and others, which would contribute to faster and more effective adaptation of the EU system to standards, and ensure uniform control of the recursors. Secondly, support is also expressed for the single information base on the transport of recursors to be led to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology since they have the necessary information capacities. The third is also for the purpose of a faster and more efficient process of destroying stolen drugs, and in accordance with Article 190. The law on criminal proceedings introduces a legal proposal to implement the process of destroying the drug taken before the power of judgment or a solution, i.e. three years before the criminal application was filed and, as we have heard, the 4 legislative proposals regulate the modification of the term drug intoxication into the expression of drugs. And finally, I would like to say this, if we want the family to function by giving birth to healthy, balanced offspring, further, if we want to act preventively in terms of preventing mental illness, mental disorders, addiction diseases and depression, if we want to prevent the hotspots of social evil, the hotspots that produce individual psychopathology and social pathology, if we really want to improve the quality of life in all families, then continuing to think about this in the spirit of the environmental system of human development is important to set up an appropriate, quality macro-system of preventive interventions that will be designed and implemented to reach every family at the level of its needs and risks. The HDZ will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44243	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44244	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As we have already heard before us, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Intoxication of Drugs, which we had a comprehensive debate on in the first reading in July of this year. And then we colleagues and colleagues realized that it was a technical law, so small changes and additions to the law, we talked a lot about fighting and combating drug abuse. At that time, we did not have a government report on the implementation of the National Strategy and action plan to curb drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2008, but here between the first and second readings we did in this House and discussed the report. Although the left-hand side of this assembly was not satisfied with the report delivered on behalf of this right-hand side of the assembly and on our own personal behalf, we must acknowledge that the results of the government's work to combat drug abuse from year to year are getting better, and the report that we have also heard today in the debates, that the situation is getting worse and worse, they deny the reports, so I will quote and repeat what we have already heard, and most of all because of the young people who are following us from the gallery this debate. So, as of 2008, 27 thousand 345 people were registered in the register of the Croatian Institute of Public Health. The data presented in the report that in recent years in the Republic of Croatia not only have been stabilised by treated addicts, but other indicators suggest that the situation is currently relatively stable. The total number of treated subjects has not changed significantly over the past three years. Last year we heard 7 grand 506 people. The number of newly treated people in the past 2008 does not decrease 1,000, and although drugs in society are increasingly available and cheaper, there is no significant increase in the number of addicts. And the addict population has been on treatment for a long time. The number of dead people that were very important in 2008 was reduced by as much as 30% compared to 2007 because there were 165 deaths in 2007 and 116 in 2008. According to DORH data, so the state's attorney's drop in the number of persons reported both accused and convicted shows that in the area of drug crime in recent years neither greater positive nor negative developments occur. Can we link the stability indicators in the plan to the abuse of intoxicating drugs to the budget of 84 million kunas in the past 2008 compared to 66 million invested in 2007. I believe we can. And do we know that in the area of drug trafficking and drug trafficking, about two billion kunas that harm the budget, I do not appreciate that none of the drugs involved in the fight against drug abuse is in vain and is not too much. And now I'm going back to what I called immediately by technical law. Although this law does not bear the mark of the proposal for a law of Europe, supplementing and amending the existing Law on the control of drug abuse contained in 14 articles mostly means adapting the existing system, legal property and standards of the European Union. That the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been quality-oriented by the draft law, it is seen that this final proposal for a law has been complemented in one article by the full name of the law which was the objection of the Assembly Committee on Legislatives. As fellow predecessors in their discussions, and also the proponent State Secretary on behalf of the Government, spoke in detail about these three changes, I will not continue to prolong. But I believe that the proposed amendments to the law improves and improves the anti-drug system. And that is why I will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which will change its name and will no longer be intoxicated, but only drugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44245	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44246	It is an incorrect assumption that the left hand side, as the colleague said, was dissatisfied with the report. No, we were very happy with the report. That looked nice, lots of charts, lots of tables. We were dissatisfied with what was inside. And now I have to admit, I don't understand, and that's where I'm gonna stop. You say one thing and Mr. Kunst says the other. I don't know who's right now. He's looking for extra action, you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44247	Thank you. We have two replicas now. The first is Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44248	Thank you. Mr. President of the Parliament. I would tell my colleague Bilic one fact that I always keep repeating. So Mrs. Bilic said that among other things we have to be satisfied for the reason that we feel that somehow the number of addicts has been stable for the past few years. That's not good, that's not good information and that's not a good fact. Why? Because they would have to be satisfied if they had an increase in the number of drug addicts from year to year. This is the goal of every drug abuse control program and the reduction of addicts because of the fact that approximately those who are still on the street come to every drug addict. Therefore, in the coming years, we must have an increase in the number of treated addicts each year to say that our strategies, action plans, prevention and drug damage reduction work. So that's the key we must always keep in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44249	Thank you. Answer by Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44250	Comrade Jovanovic, I'm sorry if you understand. I did say satisfied but in another context. Otherwise, it shows the result of why we can be content. I also cited the number of deaths. Therefore, there are results, and in that part I said that I was as satisfied as I have connected everything achieved and with what the Croatian government has singled out of the state budget to combat drug abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44251	Thank you. And the replica of Mrs. Tatjana Shimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44252	Thank you very much. My colleague Vardić, you spoke about the allocation of financial resources and that it is never too much and that I agree with you that it is never too much and that it should always be set aside in this area where there is a big problem. However, I would look back at three things. It is a prevention that is not systematic, it is a treatment that is not systematically and connected, or resociation, which is unfortunately Donkihot. Therefore, there is a problem of inconsistency. When we talk about prevention, there's no evaluation of the program. Therefore, there is not one joint program that is very important. As far as treatment is concerned, there is no systematic connection between all the actors involved in the treatment, starting with the communes, from the Institute of Public Health, from the Centre for Social Care, Family Centres, Hospital departments, etc. Everyone thinks my program is better than the other one and I don't think there's this systematic connection and that's exactly why all these three things might need to be incorporated into one law. I think those funds we're detaching would certainly be more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44253	Answer by Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44254	Thank you very much. My colleagues, in part, can agree because this was finally shown in the report that I called for, and that is that there is still room to work on better coordination of all the actors involved and institutions of the system that are in charge of both the treatment and the rehabilitation of addicts. However, I will take this opportunity to say that from my experience, from the experience of Brod-Posavina County since the centres for prevention of addiction were placed under supervision or in the composition of the County Public Health Office to show better results. It is certain that in the work of institutions and coordination and that there will always be someone walking empty, and I am on the board and whenever I am able to say and I advocate that what is especially the system's institutions, so health care, social care, that these institutions must have better cooperation in the treatment of these addicts. In addition, progress is evident in the integration, not only of the integration but also of the quality of the work of the therapeutic communities that are being opened. And as for self-resociation and return, i.e. enabling the employment of cured or treated addicts, I agree that we need to work even harder on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44255	Thank you. I announce that at 10:42 p.m., it's past 10 minutes' notice time. It's Mrs. Brankica Crlenko's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44256	Thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44257	Excuse me, ma'am. Mr. Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, my colleague Susana was talking about drug abuse, and I would only complement her exposure to the next, that the drug abuse path has its beginning, a bad habit, has its own lust, has its own subsequent emergency, and that's all connected in one chain makes this bad habit, which is actually a national problem. The struggle with it certainly requires great material resources but also human engagement. If they decriminalized the use of easy drugs, surely the chain would be interrupted by the records of all those who start and who get used to it would certainly not have gone the way to those dealers who want to make easy money by destroying other people's lives because a hundred small fish surely lead to the big one and thus expose the perpetrators of the most serious crimes in smuggling and drug trafficking. Therefore, with these material assets used today to combat drug abuse, it certainly cannot be allowed to decriminalise the drugs, but they must also be subject to further monitoring, as they lead the way to the largest consumables. At least those who worked in state services at the highest levels should know that the network is being set up and that those who are the largest in the chain are being discovered.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44259	Thank you. Mrs. Branchie Blackie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44260	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Speaking of this Law on the prevention of drug abuse, I think it is extremely important to point out those factors that are actually the cause of child and youth risk behavior. Studies in the field of social pathology and juvenile delinquency warn of the importance of family life as areas of frequent genetics of addiction. The results of these studies show that the presence of one of the sociopathological forms of parent behavior or of persons in the environment can be considered a more significant risk factor for the occurrence of behavioural disorders in children and youth. Since the family environment is extremely important, I consider it necessary to highlight some more of the risk factors in growing up children and youth. These are primarily family atmospheres and mutual relationships, family conflicts, attitudes towards the social forms of behaviour, crime and violent conflict resolution, child rearing, especially the need for a clear application and expectations for children and inappropriate child surveillance, physical, psychological abuse, cruel and unconsistencies. Risk factors most often listed as those most significant influencing the development of juvenile delinquent activity and the occurrence of behavioural disorders, and addiction is one of the manifest forms, are psychophysical and neurological factors that include part of genetic heritage. Cognitive difficulties, such as lower intelligence, lower concentration and attention, hyperactivity, impulsiveness, low tolerance on frustration, family influences of which are the most significant rejection of parents, poor parental involvement, and also not less important, crime and alcoholism of parents, divorce, separation of families. A child who has not received support in the family, who has been neglected or abused or where there have been double standards in the family, and the educational attitudes have been inconsistencies, will not develop safety, trust, sense of importance, trust in their own ability to pass on in their social relations, first in the neighborhood, and later in school and later in all the interactions that bring adult age. In the family, it's constantly communicating. The basis of each communication is relations and exactly the relationship between families. It is important to know that during puberty, a child is busy with a number of problems and is unable to work on the quality of family relations, so only parents are responsible for building good relationships. The family is one of the main factors in preventing and combating drug abuse, as well as in socialising young, former drug addicts. It has been able to give its potential to a young man since his earliest age protection resources so as not to enter the risk area of drug consumption. Functional family and effective parenting are the best sources of self-protection of the child and his adequate behaviour if he finds himself at risk. Because of the increasingly demanding and exhausting way of life, parents sometimes, as well as the entire family, do not have enough internal resources to provide a child and a young man with timely and adequate protective powers. A number of studies have shown that the most sensitive period of transition from primary to secondary school is. The risk is growing with increased night outs, as they face the challenges of socialization in the community, which has usually taken place in cafes, discos, parties, for the past decade and for the most part. All means of addiction are significantly more often consumed by those children who live nightlife, who often go out at night and return to their late hours at home. An experiment with alcohol and other drugs most often begins at a time when a child requires greater freedom. In most cases, allowing a child to be independent will allow him to choose smoking, alcohol, or other drugs precisely because he feels grown and mature. Excessive control and denial of decision-making opportunities can only worsen the problems that arise at that time. Among young people, there are those who really rebel against society and show this by their antisocial behavior, delinquency, and so forth. Most often, such children did not receive enough warmth and acceptance during childhood. Parents who have vague and unrealistic, often too high expectations of children and who communicate with them in a rough way, full of criticism, threats, and penalties, increase the likelihood that their children will reach for alcohol or other drugs. Children want to know as much about everything as they do about alcohol and other drugs. They are able to spot interesting messages sent to them by media, peers, or family members. Some children show exceptional curiosity about drugs, and they complement their knowledge from different sources. These are often peers with drug experience who provide them with distorted and incomplete information on the consequences of the abuse of these funds. The short-term so-called. The positive effects of drugs by ignoring the terrible social and health consequences that drugs actually have. Young people take drugs for the same reasons adults do, relax, belong to a particular group, for pleasure or easier to endure stress, boredom, or change. Many young people try drugs, but it is important to remember that this does not necessarily lead to a longer - term drug use. Sometimes drug problems are part of a much more serious problem, such as inability to fit into school life, problems at home, failure to find ways to approach the person they like, etc., etc. Particular attention should be paid to early disclosure of consumables between children and young people and to consider the possibility of testing intoxicated drugs, of course keeping an account and respecting the dignity of a person, professional ethics and the Constitution guaranteed the rights of individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44261	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Crlenko, you're talking about factors that affect the child, in a positive or negative sense, and I absolutely agree that it's the family that all starts with, but I'd like to point out one more thing, which is schools. I've been working on some stands, and I've made a lot of contact with drug addicts, so I might know more about it. It is that Croatia does not generally pay sufficient attention to primary prevention, thus preventing a child from getting in touch with drugs at all because of the fact that we have information from parents and children at a low level. Parents can't tell when the kid's in trouble, when he took drugs. Children get a good deal of information very often from dealers which is therefore the worst possible thing that can happen, because they will always ignore the negative consequences and highlight only what is positive. So the family is not likely in the good part to recognize that the child has a problem with being in such a society and has possibly taken drugs. I think that's primarily because secondary prevention is important and it is absolutely and in the local budgets quite stressed. Large funds are allocated depending on the possibilities, and relatively little attention is paid to primary prevention, i.e. information both children and parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44263	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Brankica Crljenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44264	Thank you. I agree with you distinguished colleagues when you say that primary and secondary prevention is extremely important. However, I would add another important aspect actually by analysing the results of research into drug abuse and risk factors in families of children whose parents are in the treatment of welfare centres. The study was conducted on 100 minors and minors with behavioural disorders and showed that there was a link between the occurrence of addiction and the criminality of the child and the individual characteristics of their parents such as unoperative parents, inappropriate educational procedures and inability to control minor behaviour, and parents as an addict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44265	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. And it's time for the honourable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I won't repeat myself, I'll try to stay on the amendment only. Unlike most of my colleagues who spoke about the content of this law, they apostropheed the importance of the first two things. So, control of the production and trafficking of chemicals and the destruction of drugs. I actually think that this third change in me is the most important thing, which is that the term of intoxicating drugs is changed into drugs. I don't think it's just some sort of change of concept, or term, but actually it's about changing content. And so I actually think this law is very important. So, I think we should take a step further and in that sense I have filed a single amendment that actually the drug term suggests to distinguish easy and heavy drugs. I'll try to explain in short lines why I think it's important. So the difference between being easy and heavy drugs is that you're one step to decriminalization, and I'm responsible here and I'd like time to be denied, but the experiences of some of our other neighbouring countries still show that I'm not going to be denied, unfortunately. And that's until we decriminalize easy drugs and make that differentiation both in terms of prevention and in terms of repression we won't take significant steps forward. We'll listen again year by year to different reports where we'll see if 5% or 10% more deaths than overdose, or if the police have caught 10% less dealers and who is convicted by the court. However, this does not essentially solve the problem. If you look and I return to the fact that the profession, when I say the profession in terms of repression, so the State's Attorney's Office, so if you want that office made up by government experts and criminals themselves, says they're overcrowded with small-scale cases that they have to deal with because that's what the law tells them to do. As a general rule, most of these cases are not being prosecuted by the State's Attorney's office or if they are being prosecuted by the court. And I can't deal with what's called a gray organized crime zone in crime. So it's not those street dealers again. Because a street dealer isn't the problem at all. Every addict is a potential drug dealer. Major drug dealers are important, and while the police, the State's Attorney's office is covered with these small, small cases, there's no time to organize or fight organised crime. Therefore, beware of the very requirement of the profession is important to respond to this difference between easy drugs and heavy drugs. Now, there's a lot of doctors here. Does anyone know how to treat addiction to, say, marijuana? And does anyone know how to treat addiction, say heroin? Now, who's going to convince me now that a marijuana addict is being stripped the same way as a heroin addict? As a rule, a marijuana addict less with one good will can be removed, usually stripped. While an addict on heavy heroin drugs is very difficult to take off and many unfortunately never take off. So, from the medical point of view, it's important to distinguish between easy and heavy drugs. It's the same thing when we talk about prevention. There's been a lot of talk here and the fact that the police should be more efficient, arrest dealers, etc. etc. Experience shows, and this will show some of the actions mentioned here that repression is not solved by anything. In fact, there's only a delay, because the repression of that guy is to buy street dealers, and as my colleague Pancic would say, the head of the octopus remains intact, so the bosses of organized crime will not happen. And that's the point. So, if we're to relieve the work of the judiciary, the police, the state's attorney's office, we need to decriminalize the easy drugs. If we want more and stronger capacities to focus on the treatment of addicts, we need to distinguish between easy and heavy drugs. Now I don't know what the difference is and why most in this House resist the distinction between easy and heavy drugs, or the decriminalization of drugs. I assure you that we have a different access to easy drugs to make statistics much better. After all, you know there has been a lot of social or social aspects of young people. You know, the fact that young people from broken families and unsettled families are being drugged is perception. I know a lot of families, well-settled where kids are hard addicts. And there's no big difference. That's an interesting phenomenon. Therefore, there are no rules. And we need to know when we're talking about young people. Young people's favorites are forbidden fruit, and when you defend them, they go there. So I'm not going to spread this social aspect. So my proposal is and I'm going to stop there, so it would be good if this finally realized that drugs could be and get drunk, and stimulants etc., so let's take one step further. At least get to the point where we can tell the difference between easy and heavy drugs. So we'll probably do it in a year or two and decriminalize easy drugs, that in a year or two we'll distinguish those who own drugs for their own use and those who own drugs for sale, and then we'll probably get a system that's more responsible and that's going to have better results in the fight against drug abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44267	Thank you. And now we have five replicas. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44268	My colleague, when you spoke of the need to distinguish easy and difficult drugs, in a more effective fight against this monster and this evil, it is no doubt necessary to show this at the end and reports each year of the State's Attorney's Office, and at the end of the statistics of the court that our courts are talking about, which is what our repression is about. So it deals mainly with the fact that you've self-absorbed the easiest form of drug abuse, i.e. They're taking action against those who own drugs. Therefore, if we want to be effective in the fight against drugs, drug abuse, we need to decriminalize drug possession and transfer them to criminal responsibility. This does not mean sending a message that every drug is harmful, that even the smallest amount is harmful. Well, that's not the issue here. But just as arguments that we have been ineffective to insist on such a complex thing since 2004 means now knowingly speaking, i.e. to fight, essentially becoming and staying completely ineffective in the fight against drugs. We need to know that until 1997, we didn't have a crime of drug possession. It entered our legislation when it became quite clear who dealt with organised crime in terms of drugs, how drugs came into the Croatian market and that we have absolutely to the day of today, since we have this crime become ineffective and that it is practically... our repressive system because we deal with the consequences, not the causes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44269	Thank you. And now we have a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44270	It's quite short, my colleague. You're absolutely right when you were talking about statistics. I know that from personal experience. If you want to pump up statistics, say police statistics, then send a raid to some club where there's some kind of rave party and actually bring you about 100, 150 people who had an ecstasy tablet on them, etc. Normally, it would be better if they brought in the guy who sold ecstasy. Statistics actually represent one kind of alibi, the situation is much harder. By stabilising the situation in the region, the Balkan route descends south and organised crime, drug trafficking, so you bloom again. And we don't actually have a lot of results here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44271	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44272	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucin, you just mentioned treatment with us, you mentioned marijuana, heroin. However, we are aware that we have very often spread various drugs. We're no longer addicted to that lowlife heroine, so we can call it, in the dark streets, in the rooms abandoned, etc. Today drugs are taken in various forms, in various other ways. But unfortunately for us, therapy is mostly about medical therapy, and that's actually when we talk about heroin addiction, exchange for heroin, which can, of course, be misused. That's what I'd call it if it was actually maintenance. As far as European practice is concerned, it is a brief medical therapy, and then there is psychotherapy that would actually be very effective for all types of drugs that are on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44273	Thank you. So we have a replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lucin, you've been pointing this out at this part of the discussion so light and heavy drugs, but you said one moment that motivated me to replicate, you said that the medical profession, the medical aspect, is that it's necessary to do that. But I want to warn you of a moment that is very important, that the adoption mechanism and the motives of adopting habits and for tobacco, alcohol and drugs are very important similar. And the late professor. Hudolin once said that alcoholism starts from broad social consumers with a small glass, you understand, too. So in that part of you, I want to say that we need to focus our efforts, so absolutely on all kinds of drug prevention. And with ease you speak these 150,000 so users who smoked this or that. I say we fight for the prevention and consumption of tobacco, because it is medically harmful, proven etc. Of course, this part of the drug and the medical aspect. You understand, from that population, it's a question of the threshold when and how it's going to go to a higher level or these heavy drugs. Here's so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44275	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44276	And I don't think it's a dispute here, that we all think all drugs are harmful. You were saying, so you're replicating this story about treatment and medicine. My colleague said that drugs are actually treated for drug addiction, so methadone therapy. Do you know that it has been proven to be easier to leave marijuana than tobacco? I believe you know that. Let's just say, that's one fact that I don't think I should be ignored. Hence, it is easier to resolve addiction to marijuana than tobacco. And that's what I plead on. I just plead to actually reflect what common sense is saying and to put it into our action plans, legislation to be effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44277	Thank you. And we have a replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44278	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucin, in your debate, you were more concerned about how to relieve the judiciary by decriminalizing easy and heavy drugs and thus facilitating the work of the judiciary than you were concerned about how to take certain actions, certain steps, how to prevent any drug dealing, any easy, or how to deal with it. I wish you'd really paid more attention to that than to fight for marijuana to smoke freely, so most likely in the Parliament, you'd feel free to go down to the cafe and smoke marijuana that normally people don't use marijuana would have to breathe in on the way to the restaurant or those in the cafe, I don't know where, we'd normally also have to do marijuana even if they weren't smokers. I can't agree with you, I won't agree. You say small dealers if we catch anything we didn't do it, we haven't solved... Well, you know as an ex-cop that you're going to get through these petty drug dealers and your head and that logically you need to take your head off and that's why I'm not going to do an ad to the Serbs, but I welcome their action that they recently had where the ten drug dealers got caught, to dozens of junkies caught in one action. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm calling on our police to take action like that. And that there, because you know in any case by preventing first of all, and then the repression can only end that drug. I say prevention first, then repression. Without repression, there's nothing. Neither these big ones nor these tiny ones will get off the road and poison our young man.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44279	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44280	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunst obviously doesn't listen or listen to what he's comfortable with. In my opening statement on behalf of the club, I was actually talking about the importance of prevention, so I said it was the most important story. I don't know if it's right for you to catch small-time dealers who usually go out after 24 hours or 48 and continue their business. Well, you see, by calling me an advocate for smoking marijuana, I never said it once, but Mr. Kunst wouldn't be so sure that the Croatian people wouldn't be better off if they were smoking marijuana in the Parliament, I'm not sure about your discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44281	Thank you. And distinguished representative Goran Heffer, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44282	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lucine, your thesis that drugs should be divided into easy and heavy, that is, the issue of decriminalization is a matter of absolute importance, and I would like others to take it that way. We've heard a few thesis here that confirm that there's no level of understanding because let's say that a bunch of tiny fish lead to a big fish that definitely doesn't stand. It has been said that decriminalisation leads to the necessary legalization which does not stand, and we have now heard this thesis that the issue of drug decriminalisation is actually because of the fact that justice would be an easier job. I have to say as a parent because I believe there are a lot of parents here, that in any case the question of consumption of any drugs I see as a great monster and I am absolutely against it. But as a parent, I am also even more opposed to the possibility of some development of my children closing down the moment they accidentally found themselves in a society where someone irresponsible took out a joint or whatever it is called. And in some kind of police raid or search they've all been recorded, they've got a record, and they've had their lives follow up on that file for some kind of joint. I know it's the subject of a mockery of certain colleagues now, but I also know that there are certain hypocrites, because in their case they would have acted differently, or in the case of their child. So I support your position that the issue of decriminalization is something that needs to be very carefully considered and made the right conclusion in the interests of children who do not have to primarily be heavy addicts just because they've found themselves somewhere in society or possibly even had some kind of joint in their pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44283	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44284	Comrade Heffer, you've just hit the core of a problem or one important thing, and that's the question of entering a criminal record. So, these young people you mentioned could happen to end up at the police station because of a joint and get on the criminal record, you know what happens to them? I can't work in the state service. Not only in the state service, today all major companies are looking for a copy of the court register, or criminal records. So, actually, what I'm talking about, and you've supported it, it solves that problem. On the other hand, you have no idea, you can kill with a man's car or I don't know what he is, you're being prosecuted. Or you own an illegal weapon. So this is, say, a ratio, it's crazy to say that you get 2,000 kuna if you're shooting illegal weapons in a public place, and on the other hand, you actually get 3 years in prison for one joint.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44285	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of the Czech Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44286	Mr. Vice President, I don't think it makes any sense to create a hysteria around a joint, but I wouldn't want Mr. Lucin calling us all MPs one more time so that sometimes it would be better in Parliament to smoke marijuana. I don't think he's okay with that, and don't joke about it. It's still a crime, it's still under the law, and I don't think it's a pleasant or funny remark at all. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44287	Thank you. Well, slowly, I'm running a session when you're up, then you'll lead. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, neither did you say what the article was or did you call yourself, so I don't accept it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and we're moving on with an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44288	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Drug abuse is a complex medical-social phenomenon with numerous consequences for individuals, families and communities, and drug users' deaths, drug addicts, are several times greater than the same population of the same age. In our country, the area of drug abuse we know is regulated by key strategic documents, the National Abuse Strategy from 2006-2009, the Action Plan, which we heard about a short time ago, and in the current course of the debate is certainly almost all said in this area, but it may be necessary to mention just because of these people who are working that the system of prevention and treatment includes therefore special units for detoxification, hospital departments, of course and county public health institutions, but of course also doctors of family medicine who oversee methadone therapy and these people are also making a great effort to do so. It is certainly necessary to mention this register of which there was a talk that counts that number, unfortunately very large, 27,5 thousand, but it is also mentioned that in recent years, the number of treated sedometrics that have been treated, but all this together says that it is done but that there is still a lot of work to be done. And in that sense, there's this law that's going to help. I think we're all in agreement here. Therefore, since we are a member of the European Centre for the control of drug abuse and, within the framework of this CARDS project, strengthening the capacity of the Republic of Croatia to combat trade was required to create this unique system, so administrative etc. And these are the three amendments that are crucial in this law, so this first moment in line with the Chemical Law, where the main jurisdiction, so far it has been led by the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Health and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, would now be supervised by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. In addition to that note, the records and this activity for the records are conducted by the Croatian Institute of Toxicology. I think it says enough for itself in any case, but it is necessary to mention Article 4 which says and prescribes that it is the obligation of the producer of the substance that can be used for the production of drugs, that every three months, with respect to three precursors which can be used for the manufacture of intoxicating drugs, that it prescribes obligations for the producer that can be used for the manufacture of drugs, that every three months, he submits to the Ministry of Health a report on the type and quantity of the produced substance, intended, sold, sold to the buyer, user and accommodation, etc. I think it's good anyway and it's going to help in this part of the way. So, further important is that moment here is what we witnessed a short time ago that in Nasice, the Deputy Prime Minister and the police chief were burning down some amounts of drugs, waiting for three years. It was too much time and it called for certain costs. Now here's the moment that could have been done before. And in that part of course at the court's request, and at the request of the State's Attorney's office, and according to the court's decision, I think it will also help to cut costs. And in this part of the same name, there was a lot of words about the name itself. Because all drugs aren't intoxicating, and I think it's clear that I don't, because there's been a lot of talk about it. And with all these changes, there will certainly be one small wheel in that part of the fight against drug abuse. And on that road, I think we're all consensual and I, of course, will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44289	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44290	Thank you. You're telling your colleague that this bill, or these changes, will also contribute to a single point in improving against drug abuse. If we had one package here today, so the amendments and the Code of Breaking, the amendments to the Penal Code, and this one in one way, the single goal, and by realizing that the fight against drug abuse does not satisfy, that every year we have more and more addicts and a growing problem. So there's something wrong with the drug fight system. And this special law that was passed for the first time in 2001 precisely in the concept of this drug fight package. It's not going to show itself much. Namely, here's the report, not my observations and opinions, but the report on the work of the State's attorneys, for this last year, and every year it's been since 2004 what's been going on. That the crime in this crime of drug abuse, the easiest form of drug possession, takes up close to 76% of all crimes. And that the number of convictions for drug abuse is in these easiest forms, almost makes one third of all criminal sanctions imposed in the Republic of Croatia and we have 750 incriminations as easy as possible, which is a serious offense. The state's attorney's office is just talking, so the waist is telling you. Punishment for these easiest forms is not a good solution. And that's what we do here every year and we keep saying it again and again is that it's dangerous. It's dangerous, but it's not an adequate way to answer for this monster. How do we get to, what you specifically apostrophe, which is the most important thing, how to get to drug dealers, to drug manufacturers, to organised crime, which in this way stays out of the reach of criminal-law repression. That's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44291	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44292	I thank you for the replica of my colleague, Antičević-Marinović, and in this part of the criminal justice section, I would not go into debate with you. I think you're stronger anyway. But I'd say, you were talking about the dangers of course from all levels, you looked at it. But it's also dangerous for me to get into the medical section. I'll repeat medically with ease to say that 150 grand smokes pot, etc. And it's this moment or that moment, that it's not dangerous. So it's all dangerous. Please, nice. And with the ease of these things, because the mechanisms of adoption are habits you understand and you don't know where the limit is, we want to repeat it again. And from this place I want to say that it's not easy to talk about things like that, because it's a question of where the threshold is, where the boundaries are, where they're going to break it. And in that sense, I'm saying that this is one wheel, which, of course, we all have to push it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44293	Thank you. There is an individual debate, the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44294	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. I think we can all agree that Sisif's job is to fight addiction. For who? And for patients, or addicts. Also for the environment, the family, the community, for the responsible health workers, the profession. Also for the entire community, of course. Why? Because this, someone has already mentioned, is the focus of social evil. So I welcome every act, every law, every regulation that applies to this area. The more Croatia is geostrategic in its position, the more it is a transit area. Unfortunately, the supply of drugs is increasing in Croatia, increasing availability. And of course it all caused an increased trend in drug consumption. Today we have heard about other than the availability of drugs, that the main factor is also family relations, or environmental impact. And these are all actually factors that lead to early experimentation, which, of course, leads to addiction. So despite the legal frameworks we face daily the emergence of new types of drugs on the market that have a devastating effect on the psyche. Well, of course there are these substances that we call "precursors." This points us to the existence of a gray zone that is impossible to explore, which in fact daily encourages us to make new efforts, to find new methods, especially preventive ones, to help combat these socially unacceptable phenomena as effectively as possible. Today, the same report we had recently on our benches is mentioned. In fact, the implementation of the Report on the implementation of the strategy against addiction or action plan and the report shows that all resolution ministries have actively implemented measures of national strategies and action plan to combat drug abuse. It is also said that the observed stable functioning of prevention services, however unfortunately there are still a large number of addicts from year to year and that is why we cannot be satisfied. We can accept that report but we can't be satisfied with the state of it. And on this occasion, I am stressing that there is one big problem that is always present, and this is an unequal and segmented implementation of school preventive programmes as well as insufficient cooperation of all institutions that provide assistance to drug addicts. Also today, there have been speeches and I've been replicating about treatment with medical therapy that can actually be abused so that part of that legal drug ends up on the street in an illegal sale and there's so-called. That black, gray zone or black number that actually makes it impossible for us to register these addicts. The success of treatment prevention is precisely proportional to the time when intervention or treatment is started. The data tells us that it has been 10 years, an inadmissible 10 years from the experimental beginning to the state of addiction, and I emphasized what this time is exactly proportional to, or efficiency on as short a time as possible. And that's one big problem we have to look at. As far as prevention is concerned, I still have to point out that the money invested specifically in the local community is insufficient and we see from that report that the state is almost boasting about decentralisation in this regard. It is also highlighted in the report that prevention programmes are largely diverse, which is essentially the same bad because prevention must be systematic. As for schools in schools, school prevention programs are declared. There are protocols that are incomprehensible and that's the problem that's being stressed from school. There is another area, actually inconsistencies in the law when very often by protecting the rights of the child, we violate his right to protect him from health and other harmful environmental influences. This law we have today, which I support, is in line with the European legal norms in this area. It is very good that it is possible with unique supervision in one ministry that it is a very good, effective system of action in the fight against drug distribution. I also support the rapid destruction of drugs that, as the storage costs are stressed, also reduces the possibility of abuse and I think it will also bring a greater effective fight against addiction. I would just like to add that I think that it should either be a regulation or a protocol that the ministry or that body that will be chosen to sort out cooperation between all these institutions dealing with this problem to know who, what, how, at which point it works because very often all of us who deal with this problem in any way right now see that there is a problem of unconnection. Therefore, the government's office, as mentioned, gives the report to the parliament, the government's report, also marks the appropriate days. However, I do not think there is a mechanism to address these issues on the ground, of course, in order to prevent the re-emergence of social evil that is present with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44295	Thank you. We have first one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44296	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I would like to correct Mrs. Stimac's incorrect quote that says, "It boasts of decentralisation from this area.". It is true, Mrs. Štimac, that the state is not boasting because there has been a significantly more intense decentralisation approach to solving problems that guarantee equal distribution of different programmes. At the level of the county and local self-government units, networks of different programmes need to be developed and developed to better create a common national policy as well as local ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44297	Thank you. Now we have three replicas. First is the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44298	Thank you. In order to understand what this is all about, it is certainly necessary to appreciate that Croatia is not an isolated island, that it is not about any slavizonia, that we are part of a globalised world and that bad things are broken in Croatia in the way that this is happening in other countries too, it is about the style of life, the subculture of young people and now that we do not enter the whole story. What we can do is this and this one dimension of prevention through education, etc., but as far as crime and criminals are concerned, this society has proved to be quite hypocritical by 1997, really not the possession of drugs, easy drugs was a crime. That's when it becomes a felony. As of that year, it's become criminals with files, etc. The only large part of the patients and those to be treated with great attention are entering the area we call the area of crime and the real criminals are somewhere far away in the afterlife, some attraction as some half-godliness and die in that story irrelevant, but statistics are beautiful. One presidential candidate these days is saying, "If I beat criminals, they'll report themselves to jail." He is unaware that he stole an idea from a film made in '90 called "Sex Party Enemy Number One" where the words are spoken by Danilo Bata, the late Stojkovic, also called Bubule, where he plays the head of UDBA: "When Communism comes these days" -- it's 48th, 49th there, "then criminals will report themselves". They'll never answer for themselves, they should be caught, but they should be caught.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44299	Thank you! But whether they answer or not, time's up. You can't answer the replica on the replica. That's not working. Replica response, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44300	So here's my colleague Marine, as we can see, is a very broad area of opportunity for the area of action against addiction to prevention, curative, of course to repression. You have now looked more at the repression, but I think the most important and the cheapest and most effective still action of prevention which, I stress, should work on systemicity rather than leave it to individuals from the local community or to create a single system programme for prevention against addiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44301	Thank you. There's a replica of the distinguished representative of Brankica Crljenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, in your debate you have well stated that far greater resources are spent on the treatment of addicts than on primary and secondary prevention that is significant. We see the problem here in education. If we look at basic and secondary school textbooks, there's very little text in them on drugs. In fact, organized drug education and the consequences of abuse and a concrete programme with certain parameters does not exist. In that case, we actually need to focus more on showing young people that drugs really don't even need to be tried. And those who have already stepped into the drugs must be accepted as members of a society that needs help, in the first part and firstly help their parents, and then all of us who want to be the country in which happy people live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44303	Replica response, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44304	Well, my colleagues, you've noticed very well about this school system itself that it takes as long and as long as it takes to adopt a single volume of colleges, and for the adoption of healthy lifestyles, it's not as determined as it is, however, left unconstitutional, so you're right. We think that we should introduce a college of health care that would actually include all these preventive programs in terms of adopting healthy lifestyles. It would be a fight against all sorts of addictions, not just these drugs, but alcoholism, even games that have recently been on the rise of video games that we haven't actually mentioned. That's one problem coming to us. Here's Mr. Secretary of State as well as air-conditioned in positive, in approving it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44305	Thank you. And another replica, the distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44306	You, my colleague, are about the best way to fight addiction. There's been a lot of talk about education, about family life, about the role of family, all of it undoubtedly stands. But what is the role of society, what is the role of government in the fight against addiction? Is this the first task, if our young people see it, or should it be the first task, but things are set in the worst possible way. That we sanction and deal with those who are last in the pyramid, which are just addicts, which we have declared... one joint or half joint to drug traffickers who have been minimum punishment for 3 years, where the judiciary responds that they will prefer to serve as an institute of minor social danger rather than to send these people to overrun prisons where they are practically graduating from the school of crime, and often with many patients, whether from hepatitis, either now and recently after the appearance of TBC. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how do you set things up? To make us more efficient, to keep drugs as low as possible on the market, and who does? Well, not those little addicts, but drug lords, drug addicts who are networked in other kinds of crime. Well says Professor Sakoman, in those provinces that precede addiction, such as Zadar County, it is never isolated crime, there is a crime rate otherwise high and too high in relation to even other or neighbouring areas. So, we just turn the saw upside down, we choose to deal with drug dealers, narcoboss, and these kids, this young man, we treat first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44307	Thank you. And the answer is not a replica, the esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44308	Comrade Ingrid, I think you've essentially focused on two basic problems, which is the task of responsible authorities, or all of us here in Parliament. I think there are two problems, and that's that we should actually do drugs as little as possible, work on that as little drugs on the market, that's one thing, that's raising kids to say no. Because if he sets us up with that system that our drugs still exist on the street, then we're still going to that one to raise the kids to say no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44309	Thank you. Now it is up to individual debates, distinguished representative Bruno Kurelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard so far, much has been said about this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on the control of drug abuse. But all of what's said here today, regardless of the discourses and differences might come down to a few words, a few simple words. Drugs is a great evil, evil for an individual, its environment, and the whole society. If... which is the most common cause of curiosity, the problem of drugs I mean here to create a habit when drugs are taken to deal with life's problems to addiction when they no longer rule their own life, but they are ruled by drugs, often very short. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will today focus mainly on my discussion of addiction, drug addiction that disrupts and destroys the normal course of life not only of the individual but of the environment. And those who have had experience in their lives and have seen when that vicious circle of hope spins anyone who tries to get rid of drugs becomes a hero himself and their surroundings and does the most beautiful things for their loved ones and it can become the greatest challenge of his life. We've heard a lot of statistics here today. My colleague Petyr, she's not here right now, she's not talking about the rise in cocaine addiction in Europe. Yes, indeed the latest data suggests that nearly 13 million Europeans used cocaine at least once during their lives. The growth of artificial drugs in Eastern European countries, i.e. in the countries of the European Union today in the Eastern Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, etc. But here little statistics given what we are dealing with here in Croatia today. The subcategories of recreational consumption include about 10% of young people, about 30,000 people consume drugs with visible harmful consequences, and the addict is estimated to have between 16 and 18000 here. But what can be shown here today statistically, and it is in line with these discussions, and it may cause a certain interest, and it is not spoken, can be said as follows. Treated addicts reduce the consumption of illegal drugs by 70% and about 60% of criminal activity, and thus the spread of drugs prior to sale. 30% of the total number of drug addicts will be permanently absorbed from drugs without additional treatment. 30 to 40% will be successfully rehabilitated, but will have to take medicines of course for 20% to 30%. The consequences of drug use can be slightly mitigated, but it is practically impossible to bring these addicts into the limits of socially acceptable behavior. All of this results in psychosis, severe depression, severe sociopathies associated with crime. Addiction is a fellow soul and body disease. Preventing addiction will be successful only with permanent, complete and systematic implementation of the tasks of all our parents, schools, health care, police, legislation. Health care, that health enlightenment and information provide data on drug toxicity. The parents ’ task of parental care and love enable children to gain confidence in the environment and develop a sense of security. The school's task, strengthening psycho-active behavior, is to overcome life's difficulties, learn how it will not be difficult to drown in drugs, but to fight them. The task of the police is to reduce the availability of drugs on the illegal market and to make it difficult for potential experimentators to start taking drugs, and to distract addicts from regular drug supply and directly force them to seek the help of society and to undergo final treatment. And we've come to legislation. And today we have this proposal, the final bill on drug control. From this day forward, as my colleagues have said, I hope the same title will be in the final law. It's good, it's good to control the traffic of substances that produce drugs, so-called drugs. The change will be under one roof, under the Ministry of Health. The problem is that the information database is run in the Croatian Institute of Toxicology in one place when there is this equipment. It is good to limit the time limit for drug restrictions, but it is a technical repair and that is to comply with European norms only one of the laws as it has spoken in its replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic. Many things and many things more and in a legislative sense in various areas for which, as Col. Milinkovic said, since I come from health care, I am not professional, I think it will program and unite. And so far, all of our stories could be summed up in the words of philosopher Fukidid. It is not the evil of him who does it, but he who is able to prevent it does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44311	Thank you. We have a further discussion individual. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The current Croatian model of control over precursors is not in line with the EU system, so it needs to be adapted, which means control of the transport of precursors in order to be taken over by a resolution body, i.e. to centralise the issue of marketing authorisations for all precursors that can be used for the manufacture of drugs. And now we have a situation that several ministries are responsible for the area of precursors. In the final proposal for the text of the law, the reshuffle was agreed, so it is proposed that the Ministry of Health and Social Care assume jurisdiction over the control and issue of, of course, permits, exercise of supervision and education to ensure effective adaptation of the EU to standards and uniform control. As we have also heard, it is also proposed that precursors should be recorded at the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, and in order to carry out the process of destroying the drug taken away should be able to carry out the procedure before the verdict or solution is passed, i.e. before the expiry of the three-year period of the criminal application, and on the basis of the court's proposal from the State's attorney. The final proposal of this law, we heard it erases, and we see it erases the term intoxicating, because most drugs, such as marijuana, ecstasy, LSD, speed, amphetamines, hallucinogenic mushrooms, cocaine, and many others in their composition are not intoxicating. In addition, most EU countries in the area of addiction and drug abuse know not only the term intoxicating, but only drugs. This morning, through the debate, we heard the first reference by the representative Mrs Bilić Vardić, who warned that we had, or said, recently discussed the report of the Office for Drug Abuse for 2008, which we accepted and which I will say, I will also testify to a good system of fighting drug abuse. The Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse has the role of national co-ordinator tasked with encouraging responsible authorities to implement measures and activities set out in the national strategy and action plan, respecting the local level in achieving two main objectives, which are to reduce supply and demand reduction. The report also showed that the situation related to drug abuse in Croatia is currently relatively stable. Also, Mr Jovanovic said one sentence in which he deviated from the report we accepted, which is that the percentage of treatment due to the opiate addiction is growing and the percentage of treatment based on the dependence on neo-opiates is falling. The addictive population is also true that the older and the average age of treated persons shows a trend in growth. It is also evident from the accepted report that the highest treatment rate due to the opiate addiction is Zadar County, followed by Sibenik-Kninska, pardon Istria and the third place is Sibenik-Kninska. At the level of the county there is much better coordination in the development and implementation of the abuse prevention programme, especially prevention, which is of course the result of the active work of the county commissions. However, we agree that the problem of unequal implementation of school preventive programmes in some counties is seen. Insufficient cooperation in the implementation of medical and social treatment of addicts. So, we need to further strengthen the services, we've already heard and we agree again on the prevention and non-patient treatment of the County Public Health and Social Care Centres. The same way we agree that daily dealing with the emergence of new types of drugs on the market that have a devastating effect on the psyche is evident. Of course it is an indicator of new efforts, for new methods, especially preventive and local, but also at national level. Finally, I will support the final bill, because its application will improve both prevention and social care measures, such as psychosocial rehabilitation, counselling and the rehabilitation of drug addicts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44313	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's Mrs. Klaric, looking back at her discussion of my quote, and I'm going to do it again, so we can't be satisfied with the number of drug addicts being treated because that number is multiplely smaller than the real problem, given that five non-treated addicts are coming in and that to survive in this system every day includes new addicts and thus the chain is getting longer and longer. Otherwise, there is one agency called the European Drugs Monitoring Agency. The agency published its report showing that Croatia is the dirtiest heroin in Europe and that prices are the lowest, and that Croatia died in the number of inhabitants of all countries in the world in the ninth place. This is another proof that we cannot be satisfied with the programmes implemented in Croatia and that much more effective programmes are needed to make the results better than we have now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44315	Replica response, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I must say, Mr Jovanovic, that it is necessary to point out that the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse during last 2008 has spent a whole series of activities in the implementation of a project to resociate addicts who have completed some of the rehabilitation programmes, and those who have been in non-patient treatment for a long time maintaining a stable abstinence. It also encourages the fact that a resociation project has been implemented and that a significantly higher number of users has been involved than in 2007. Certain problems such as lack of sensitivity have also been identified, especially for economic operators, but also for lack of confidence in treated addicts, as they fear they will not be employed if their status is revealed. It's also an important space where we have to work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44317	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's the Honorable representative of Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44318	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I remind you that it is now the international month of the fight against addiction that began on November 15th to December 15th. Based on the opinion of specialised international bodies today, around 200 million people worldwide are spending some kind of drug, which is about 4% of the world’s population. The prison population, related to drug crime, has been moving around the world in recent years between 20% and 30% of the entire prison population. The estimates suggest that only 10% of the total quantities of drugs produced are seized, and when more than 15% of the effectiveness of the state authorities can be considered satisfactory. As for the average share of criminality in the area of drug abuse in the overall crime in Croatia during 2007 is a stable 10%. Given the statistical indicators relating to the criminality of drug abuse, it is assumed that there will be no significant shifts in Croatia in demand for individual drugs and, accordingly, to expect further attempts to grow drug supply in the illegal drug market in the Republic of Croatia. The region has been mentioned here several times today, however, according to the assessment of relevant and specialised institutions of the region is also the site of corruption due to the continued linkage I quote: "business circles, policies and organised crime" which warns, say "UNDOC" which thinks that the fight with this phenomenon must be one of the main preoccupations, the government's tasks in the region. The government sent this proposal to the Croatian Parliament to amend and supplement the Law on the control of the abuse of intoxicating drugs, which, with the rest, introduces the possibility that the process of destroying the drugs taken away should be carried out before the verdict is passed. It is also proposed that a unique information database be led to the Croatian Institute of Toxicology. This law proposes that the Ministry of Health and Social Care assume jurisdiction over the control of all substances that can be used to produce intoxicating drugs. All of this should be supported because I have to remind myself that several categories of chemical compounds can occur in the case of illegal drug production, primarily synthetic compounds: initial chemical compounds, basic chemical compounds and solvents and reagents. Category of initial chemical substances, etc. It's very important for illegal drug production because they're part of it. There are therefore a number of chemicals that are not under international control and with the help of various drugs, and therefore there is a need to strengthen legal traffic monitoring systems. Without these chemicals, no intoxicating drugs, and cooperation between industry and control bodies and exchange of best practices, experience is the key to success. The basis for the work of the International Narcotics Control Committee lies in the United Nations, in their 1988 Convention against Illegal Drugs Trade and Psychotropic Substances. The Committee, as an independent body, is hereby responsible for the monitoring of the application of this Convention, the assessment of substances to be legally controlled and to report on compliance with Article 12 of the Signatory States of that Convention. This is the only mechanism for controlling the legal traffic of chemicals that can be used in the production of intoxicating drugs, etc. The transducer. The illegal trade of ephedrine and pseudoephedrine is dominated by Mexican cartels that make about $150,000 on the black market on 25 barrels of ephedrine. Interesting is the appearance of new precursors that usually do not have medical or economic use but are specially designed for drug production. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, the problem of drug-related drugs that has caused the most resistance and controversy that has been talked about today in this debate, is the part of the misdetermination of legal persons who possess a small amount of drugs for their own use with those who possess significantly larger quantities of narcotics intended for further distribution. The same fines are intended for all, from 20 to 50 thousand kuna. The solution I find appropriate is that the legal provision remains the same but that a graduation is made in terms of the types of drugs, the quantity and repetition of the works, which would make the penalties fairer. It's a kind of intersection method used by many countries in the world headed by the United States. For each type of drug, a penalty shall be prescribed with regard to the quantity and repetition of the action and the right to cross-section shall be agreed which shall cover all possibilities. For example, owning 5 grams of marijuana is a violation, but 5 grams of heroin is not, it's a crime. But if you're caught for the third time with five grams of marijuana, it's no longer a violation. In fact, the existing legal provision says that the one quoted as saying, "unauthorized possession of substances or preparations that have been declared intoxicating drugs will be fined by fines or prisons for up to 1 year." According to that article, as many as 44 000 and 522 adults were reported from 1998 to late 2008, and 26 thousand were sentenced. As many of them ended up in prison, it's impossible to tell, but we have information that drug manipulation is the first six months. This year, there were 1232 people in prison who stood the state for nearly 140 million kuna a year. The statistical photorobot of a treated addict in Croatia says it is a 29-year-old male with a medium professional background that took 10 years to appear on addiction treatment from the day of the first time. A solution to the problem in my court should be sought in the area of decriminalisation, and certainly not in the legalization of drugs. The decriminalization of drugs and legalisation is often unwarranted. However, legalisation completely removes criminal persecution for the production, sale and consumption of drugs until decriminalisation only prosecutes the consumption and possession of smaller amounts of drugs for personal use, although still prohibited by law. It's not about shutting down full of addicts and occasional customers, it's about resellers and drug dealers. If this law is to be passed in order to comply with the EU's legal standard, everything should be done to ensure that Croatia's reality in the future resembles situations that are difficult to deal with in the world because of trade and drug abuse. Examples of best practice in our European environment should be monitored. This month, the Lisbon Treaty came into force. A document of great importance for the European future and ours as well. But Portugal is also important for our topic today because the only EU member who has decriminalized all drugs while Italy and Spain have done so with easier drugs. Fear of rising drug abuse among young people, the transformation of Lisbon into addictive softness and drug-tourism has not come true. The more results after 5 years are extremely positive. Decriminalisation had no impact on the growth of consumers, but on the increase in the number of people treated. The success of the programme was also supported by empirical evidence, and they saw the number of street overdoses from 400 to 290 cases, and the number of HIV infected dropped dramatically from nearly 1400 to about 400 in 2006. However, the basic preconditions for the functioning of such a system are the police and judicial system which fully and quality process criminal miles dealing with drug supply and reselling and that it has high efficiency in this regard. This, of course, opens up some other topics that we will be discussing in Croatia for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44319	Thank you. The individual debate was attended by a respected representative, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I took the floor because I think this topic deserves to be discussed because it is painful for many and there is hardly anyone in their environment who has not met with drugs, some of the consumers or victims of it. But I'd like to start a debate with you from the island of Brac, where the police have received notice that somewhere up at the top of Brac around Kunca, marijuana is planted. And they came up and they really found a field where marijuana is now being found. Whose field is it? They went to that house and found two older people, and now I don't want to say what that age is, so I don't compare it to some of our age, which means age, but they found it up there... and what do you do, how can you plant marijuana? And she tells a cop, my child when it's worth it. And in that you understand, that story of marijuana, drugs is actually the key to all of this debate that we're talking about, it's worth it. Drug trafficking, drug production, drug distribution is worth it, and that money is that spiritual movence negative this whole story. Drugs are certainly worth it, trade is certainly worth it, that many risk prisons, risk penalties, because in some ways it's worth the risk. And that's why this topic that I last heard about what my colleague Picula said about criminal provisions, the question of sanctioning it is extremely important. In the debate about drugs in the world, I think it's a threat to everyone and those who consume it and those who distribute and produce drugs. If it wasn't for drugs, there wouldn't be a movie that has the character of a criminal film, a thriller or something. Drugs are a very strong component of all that together. But the fact is that there's a big hypocrisy in the world that drugs are being treated, which is talking about drugs, and at the same time that drugs are being financed by some systems and some wars and some terrorism, God asks you what. Croatia is doing the best it can, joining this one battle. This legislation is what makes them join everyone else, so that they can stand up to it as best they can. There are dilemmas in both psychiatrists and drug dealers, which means easy and heavy drugs. The same thing that a colleague of Picula said earlier, that... and legalization differs in terms that are. But the fact is that all drugs are intoxicating and that they are causing certain negative effects and that only really by criminal policy can we do so as best against them. I remember from the childhood of a morphinist from our street, so we talked about a morphinist who's walking down the street, etc. So they meet more and more. And I don't think it's just for those who distribute, but the goal is also for those who consume. Because if there weren't those who consume it, there wouldn't be those who would offer it on the market. I think one educational dimension in schools should be growing stronger and stronger. Not only declarative but also illustrating through all aspects that can be shown to children. That also smoking, so classical tobacco, the habit of smoking makes one fertile soil to continue smoking marijuana. So from that degree of easy drugs to pave the way for harder drugs. If anyone stops. So it seems to me that the beginning itself is extremely important, and not only selective in terms of easy and heavy drugs, because I say all drugs are intoxicating and all drugs in one way represent addiction. Only this addiction is easier available to someone, more difficult to reach. There is one general opinion of the public, at least in a circle where I move independently of my age, that sanctioning it is not appropriate, as it is, and that drug trafficking not only as a crime in itself, but also implicates other crimes that lead to much larger robberies, leading to murders that lead to robbery. And in those robberies around the houses, who knows what to. So, one of course in including international efforts to fit into one system, it seems to me that criminal policy should be as strong as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44321	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44322	Thank you very much. It's an incorrect quote from fellow Roshin that all drugs are intoxicated. And that's why we're changing the name of the law today, that's why we're changing that term. Otherwise, there are drugs in controlled quantities used for medical purposes. You have courts where if you prove, unfortunately not in Croatia, but outside, that it is for medicine, for your health, then do not condemn you. So it can't be said that all drugs are intoxicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44323	Thank you. And now we have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44324	Thank you very much. My colleague Roshin, I fully support this debate of yours. And this example of you that you set on Brač, I had the opportunity to meet at Vis, where I bought from a man olive oil, and while we spoke to the secretary to whom he would bring, and told one neighbor, wait for him to smoke now, so he can't bring you. Well, then I said, so how could he smoke there, we agreed. He says he smokes marijuana. He normally plantes and cultivates it at home. And then if you were so decriminally decriminally as some of the SDP colleagues say, then it would be normal for that marijuana to be grown at home and you would even have the right to seek the incentive to plant marijuana, as it is required for many other plants, why not be in the budget the next item is the incentive for planting, growing marijuana, because it would be normal and marketable anyway. I think I'm surprised at people who say with such ease that they should be decriminalized. I don't know if these people know the effects of marijuana, which they treat with easy drugs, and which produce effects may be more difficult. If they knew the effects of easy drugs, then they would warn that all of this hooligan majority of the bar turns out, whether it's on football courts, whether you're beating yourself up in front of schools in schools, in the streets, etc. If tests were done, it would appear that most of these mostly young people are just under easy drugs, we won't call them opium, but under that easy drug. So in any case, I don't think it's in any way to say hello, but I agree with you that all measures should be taken to prevent any repressive or normal before that preventive.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44325	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44326	Well, in the follow-up to this, my colleague supports me, but I'd like to add another addition to what he's replicated to me, as well. Knowing these events and these close-up atmospheres, not from my personal family, but from the immediate proximity of friends and others, I would say exactly what is key in life and not just a drug issue. It's a matter of measure. It's a matter of quantity. When a person sets a measure in his life in one balance, he is more likely to treat anything. In that sense, even though it wasn't his replica, I would use my replica to tell. It is true that all drugs are not applied equally, that some drugs are used for medical purposes absolutely is but in that sense function as intoxicating if we're going to talk about petrantine,... And ask what it can represent, and the morphine that's in a certain way I've said to morphineists as the first junkies I've ever known and used to prevent pain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's interesting? With the same product, you can save a man's life, and with one of those same products, you can kill a man. For example, Digitalis at a certain point can save your life because of heart function and Digitalis is also a poison that can be poisoned. So it's a matter of measure. In this case, we are talking about something that is used outside medical use in everyday life rather than in favor of medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44327	Thank you. The second is the distinguished representative and vice president of Dom Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44328	Thank you very much. I answered the line because I think my colleague Roshin said one sentence that is crucial and that defines the reasons why drugs spread so quickly and so successfully and endangers everything that threatens us when we talk about addicts. That sentence said, "The drugs are worth it.". The production and distribution of drugs generates huge profits. And I'd like to warn my colleague Roshin about what he didn't say, that it indicates how it should work. It should work on the causes, not the consequences. It is necessary to do everything possible to reduce this high profitability, this profitability of production and distribution. And that is why it is unclear to me why the Croatian government has persistently rejected any conversation on the possible partial legalisation of those drugs used to the fullest extent and which would then pay off, it would reduce profits. That's one thing. And the second thing, why the Croatian government persistently rejects maximum criminal legislation to those who deal with production and distribution rather than with addicts. These are two points where we need to act, where we can expect some results. For example, my daughter’s friends, who otherwise live healthy, do not smoke or drink, but who are daily exposed to the risk or challenges of an offer that is extremely wide, which is illegal, completely illegal and which indicate when this illegal offer would be stopped, if it became legal it would also reduce the degree of threat but unfortunately also the number of addicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44329	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44330	My colleague Antunović, to you and others in some way. I just said the key phrase that you said, "My child is worth it.". So there's even a generational range within that problem, and not only when it tells you my child in it almost sees nothing evil because I think it's normal. And everything you've said in terms of battle I agree with you. I can't, I'm hardly responsible for my own conscience to bear responsibility for the conscience of the entire government or anyone else so I can't answer you in that sense, but I can tell you as a citizen, as a parliamentary representative. In my opinion, decriminalization is not a solution in my court, but I think it's certainly a battle for causes that is very important. That's why I mentioned the question of even raising so that the demand wouldn't be so that the offer couldn't be, but the attack is great. In "Our Father" he says first, "Don't lead me into temptation" and then we'll do everything else. As the government behaves it's the responsibility of the government, but I personally think that seizing any kind of drug is the way to lead on more drugs and that it's better to never try, that it's better to never try a cigarette and that it's good to find such a measure in life that you're not addicted to anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44331	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44332	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Every time and on this occasion when drug abuse, drug abuse, and the fight against drug abuse are discussed, then we can conclude that the fight against drug abuse is not satisfactory. And almost every year on this or that issue, but mostly when the object of our drug debates is drug abuse, then almost every single one of us wants to show how close that matter is to him, how much he knows about it, what statistical data it is like to enjoy this debate, and as if we've basically become simply we have the logic of a victim who's been thrown out for years, who in some way becomes dependent on this abuser himself. I think things should be turned around and every debate if they were to be generally fruitful but some kind of sexist debate and larpuraristic to talk about being spoken so periodically rather than to see which paths are really effective in that direction. That's why these statistics that speak, which is good and to know, and we all know them, and they're not even controversial. We must conclude that the fight against drugs and drug abuse does not satisfy, that first of all the authorities are responsible, but each of us here individually. On this issue, the question is what can we do, what is the role of parliament. The first question that should be focused especially on the government but then on everyone else's drugs coming from on our market, that's a crucial question. Discussing whether this drug is more dangerous, it's not, that even the most difficult addicts have started with easy drugs. Well, that's all true. Those aren't the questions we have to deal with here. We need to be pragmatic here what we have to do and how to reach these pyramids, to reach drug dealers, to reach drug dealers, drug dealers, drug cartels, and not to concentrate all our strength on our entire repressive apparatus and all our discussions here about those who are at the bottom of that ladder or pyramids, who must be at the focus of our interest how to help them, not how to sanction them and to brag about how effective we are in the fight against drugs. Because this concept has been strong for several years and has proved catastrophic, that it does not produce results, even if the state increases resources in the fight against drugs because things are, I won't argue on purpose, but they're wrongly set, they don't give those desired results. What we have to do is make our youngsters who are often, in order to get a job here at all, so who often claim to work on black and spend on white. What and what measures to take so that would not happen? And I'm going to start with what I'm saying every time I talk about this, and I'm not going to get tired of it, because in the end, that's what the profession is telling you. The state's attorney's office and courts, they talked about it publicly. The state's attorney's office, under its obligation to lay down annual accounts here or reports, and there has been a third branch of the government, a judiciary imposed by our laws that missupply things that for the smallest amount of drugs, drug possession must be sent and possibly by adding at least the least amount to another to be considered a drug trade, and that in such a way these addicts are the last in the pyramid to be leveled with drug dealers and narcotics, in order to increase statistics in this regard, they speak openly that they will oppose such a legislative solution, because they still have little better knowledge of things from us and that they will not send youth there to education because of the dungatory works. But they already do, even under existing regulations and general standards of minor crime, they have the right to do so. Here's the alarming information about how things got set up wrong. Which, therefore, in this illustration of the reason for the rejection by age groups in percentages, for minors almost 65% comes the rejection on application for this type of crime, possession or to God's trade, adding half a joint, where it was always called not trade but worship in court practice. That's how it was. And now to argue that it's not dangerous, so nobody's saying it's not dangerous, so nobody's saying it's not dangerous, it's supposed to be contained, but we're not going to stop it like this. So what do the statistics show? So they show, and I'm going to repeat that they've atrophied our entire police and judicial system because the judiciary and the police are dealing with the easiest forms of drug abuse, and they've absolutely become inefficient in curbing drug trafficking and production. This stems from the presentation of the criminal act of Article 173 which therefore speaks of criminal acts related to the abuse of intoxicating drugs and where you see a demonstration that over 75% of all criminal offences related to the abuse of intoxicating drugs are based or are placed precisely in the easiest form i.e. possession of drugs. What does that mean in practice? In practice, this means that we protect those we have been trying to protect from the influence of this drug trafficker, treat them with mandatory treatment based on the Law of Infractions, and only then, in the event of relapse, to enforce them. And in that case, we would be precious witnesses in the discovery of the chain from which the drug was obtained. If you know this problem a little bit better, then you'll see that all those found in drug possession never discover the little bit more important in the street that he gave. Why? Because they throw themselves out of death and danger, they even answer for organization. So they're satisfied with their punishment, even often they don't make complaints, and there's the smallest percentage of the suspension decisions, and there's the highest percentage of the confessions. And everyone's happy. And how far did that pleasure get us? To the extent that we have it over, so it doesn't go past 10, 15 days, it's about confiscation of a large amount of drugs. So who brought her? You never say who you suspect. The police seized a large amount of drugs, as if it had fallen from Mars. We're on this famous route and we don't need to hide it from how the drugs are coming here and how the first beginnings of larger quantities are, it was right in '96, '97. the years when our two largest weeks published under whose patronage drugs come to Croatia. Then it was just organized crime, it was his main object of profit. Not even today. And that's why drugs are scary, that's how much she's available at every end, on every canton, as we say down in Face. Here is the devastating data from the latest report on people treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs in Croatia by the Public Health Institute, which showed alarming results according to which Zadar County comes first in the number of drug addicts treated in Croatia. So that's what my colleagues used to say, saying little about the causes, even though we should see more, knowing these broad causes, and the broadest ones are in conflict between individuals and society. That's the widest aspect. But we can explain a lot of things to ourselves, but if we want to be practical and pragmatic in order to eventually get caught up in an effective fight against this evil, then we need to see that where poverty is, where unemployment is, that these are the best factors where drugs are, and every evil and monster spreads rapidly. Because people, especially young people who are most cast out by this monster and are least resistant. So, I plead, let's see once again, maybe this isn't the last chance, but soon the Penal Code will change, some of the allegations are already going in that one set of amendments to the Penal Code that we need and violate on that trail where we're going to point all our strength and state resources right at the discovery and processing and punishment of drug dealers, narcotics and thus reduce the amount of drugs, and to that availability of drugs...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44333	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44334	With all these other auxiliary things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44335	Thank you. Now we have one correction and a few replicas. Well, the first is the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Antičević-Marinović incorrectly stated that we enjoy the discussion of such devastating statistics. No, we're not enjoying ourselves, but we're unhappy, of course, because of such bad statistics. And the second moment is where she said no one was saying it was dangerous. It's dangerous, of course. It's all dangerous. But it's dangerous and it's more difficult to bring out 150 with ease, 150,000 who smoke marijuana or stuff like that. These are serious things and here we must before, I speak now in this context. You didn't say that, it's all dangerous before, please. Everything is dangerous and here we have full responsibility for all these problems. So each of us has a certain responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44337	Thank you. We have several replicas, so the first respected representative is Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44338	About one thing here, at least as far as what's been said, everyone agrees that the real mobsters, the ones who lie behind drug-related businesses, should be severely punished and captured. The fact is, what my colleague Ingrid was saying was that in these statistics, and in reality, the most arrests are those who are victims of patients, addicts, etc., and are also criminalized after '97. The years of punishment get by the law by the head when he catches them with one joint. I think that, in fact, until in this country, we openly say that they are mobsters who stood in Croatia behind drug traffic, especially during the war, during the Homeland War, who are at wartime criminals. And until we treated them in particular, considering those who became drug victims in these most difficult moments for individuals and intolerable and psychologically traumatized people. Those who have earned under these conditions by drug trafficking, those who stand behind should be at the level of war criminals and thus should be punished. You know, Afghanistan is funded by drug terrorism, but those who plant opium are poor, poor people hungry. The piratery around Somalia, they're just fishermen, I don't know. The bosses are still standing... And it seems to me that the same thing is happening in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44339	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44340	That's what I pointed out earlier, and that's what statistics are about. Now the question arises whether there is a political will to turn things around, that indeed those who are the victims of these criminals, those who are heavy addicts, they are the victims. How much they've contributed to it, we're not going to get into it now. That's for sure that's it, and nobody's doubting it. But they're just victims, the ones you're talking about, those drug lords, the drug mobs they're never, never the ones standing at the top of that pyramid are never the fans of that drug. They became prominent citizens who had their first assets and had acquired their capital in the 1990s, while others had just and especially young people fought and defended Croatia. And you speak this well, my colleague. So, is there a consensus with us that we're dealing with these people who have now expanded their jobs, and their share capital was exactly this one that they earned on drugs, and they've remained untouchable. But that's his day today. And we all have our strength again how dangerous it is. Well, I'm sure it's dangerous, but does the Penal Code react to any socially dangerous behavior? In democratic countries, the Penal Code has waged legal order for the ultima, and it has been reserved for the most difficult forms of the most difficult deathous social behaviors. And then some heads are classified according to a certain weight and that's how they're sanctioned. And we're just the result, so those who say victims we hit them with the greatest repression because others because of the nature of things are set up like this and they're wrongly untouchable, unattainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44341	Thank you. We have a further replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44342	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ingrid, you were talking about what it takes for society to do to solve the problem of drug abuse and harm. So we all know there's a prevention, there's a treatment, there's procedures to reduce the damage and the repression procedures. If any segment fails, we won't make it. A school example of how repression must not work is an example of Cvik and Korčula. I wouldn't be wasting my time on that right now. I'd go back to the prevention problem. I can say with pride that I come from a city where all these segments work. The Rijeka police are the most successful in detecting drug routes, closing dealers, and we're proud of our school preventive programs. There was a debate yesterday that showed the importance of school prevention programs where the country is scheduled. The city of Rijeka has singled out a million kunas for school preventive programs. So I'm asking you how next year we're going to be successful when in our state budget for the prevention of violence and disease and school addiction is reduced by 43%. Is that the way to reduce school violence and addiction?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44343	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44344	Yes, when there were a little more resources, then we are often, or even more proposings, the government has often boasted that from year to year, and that this year, or those past years, there is a large amount of funds, that is, much more resources than in the earlier period, that have been allocated to this kind of monsters. Now in these times when more truth hides, not that this is considered a luxury. And what's the consequence of what you're saying to a colleague? So, then, all things point to exactly what is special and apostrophe, and I really thank you for this information that should not be negligible especially when we talk about these things is the consequence that even more severe and more repression will resist exactly those who are in contact with the repressive bodies, the police, the State's attorney, later courts and later in the penal institutions, which is exactly what I am saying are victims, who are obliged by society to treat them, to warn them, and also to protect them from those who pose a threat, and not only to them, but that's exactly what I think questions are more and national security. I repeat, is it the fate of our youngsters to work on black and spend on white?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44345	Thank you. We now have a replica of the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44346	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, wishing for, in your debate, you are in the desire to relieve the judiciary and to indicate who suffers there in that part may agree with you that in any case, drug dealers should answer for their guilt. However, speaking throughout the morning, I would also like to remind you that the trend in 2008 in the treatment of people treated during 2008 is 445 students and 306 students. I'm not going to mention these adults that I believe are themselves responsible for, by working status, for what they're doing, but here because of these young people, because they're getting down to the age-old limit of taking and meeting drugs and being an addict, that we're still carrying the responsibility of all these words today, because this many times mentioning the decriminalization of 150 thousand people who smoke light drugs and everything we've been saying and calling on young people that drugs are not evil, and at the same time we're saying ourselves what evil they do to young people, both the person, the family and the whole social community.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44347	Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44348	So do we not understand each other, or are we not listening? So no one's saying that a small amount of drugs is dangerous, that every type of drugs is dangerous. Well, that's not controversial. It is disputed that this must not be found in the Penal Code, but in some other laws, in the Criminal Law, in warning measures, in treatment, in mandatory treatment. That's the thing. Criminal legislation must be reserved for the most deadly of social behaviours. Repeat. And these are the ones who get them drugs, which are products, that are teamed up and that are, we see things as they are set up, I want to prove to you and show you, after all, that's what the report on the work of the state's attorneys is telling you, that's the judges, that's the judicial authority on several occasions, and that's what the most important representatives have reported. The profession tells you that just when it comes to small amounts of drugs, criminal proceedings are not the best solution, they speak very carefully when they appear before the Parliament, and even before the government, submitting their report. Well, you don't want to hear the profession. We're not sending a message, we're not sending a message. We're sending a message that's not important. It's the same thing as if you weren't punishing for murder, but for a torn hair, the hair would certainly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44349	Thank you. And we have another replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44350	Thank you very much. I really think that there is a political will in Croatia to make the most of the drug deal, i.e. to reduce drug abuse. But I don't think that this political will is full of expression because of the different ideological ones, so if you want worldly fences. Well, maybe part of the ignorance. That's why I, my colleague Ingrid, would suggest and it may be the right solution for the government to try to rise above politics and invite 10, 20 distinguished experts in this field and give them a real concept of both legal and any other story in the fight against drugs. But obviously here we are listening to a debate here where we are talking about everything starting with smoking, about where there is a malicious balance between legalization and decriminalisation, etc., obviously we have no intention or opportunity to listen to each other in this House and talk openly. I think we in this House must take responsibility, and our responsibility is bad laws. And that's the problem. If we had good laws, then perhaps this debate would go differently, but we have bad laws. And that's why my colleague Ingrid, I don't believe in major steps until political will is shown in a way that obeys the profession, not just a declaration to go into crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44351	Thank you. And the answer to the replica. There isn't. There is. Then the reply to the replica, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44352	But very short. When you talk about this political will, then this is nothing new that we're talking about this time. That's what we've been saying for several years in a row. The answers are always the same, every drug is dangerous, and it must remain in the Penal Code. You appeal again to the political will to be seen, to invite experts who deal with this problem, in that curative sense, but also in this repressive, and to find the best solutions. That's not a new proposal either. You're persistent about it and that's what needs to be done. But then the question arises, both now and rightly. If all the statistical indicators show that this time is not good, that despite this kind of forcing us to leave things as they were set since 2004, after that short period of the 2003 Penal Code novel, what does that indicate? If there was then in, let me tell you, the opposite political will. If the indicators show that we're ineffective, none of them from the top were responding. Because they're donors. You can see them at gala dinners, with big sums. Because those paths are recognized. Because the neighbors know them. Only the government doesn't know them. And they stay, and they're really protected, because in the ordinary legal procedure, they're protected in this way. Because you don't have witnesses, and now the government is doing a great program to protect witnesses who are encouraged to testify, especially in the case of severe crimes "no justice without witnesses", and here, a witness, a valuable witness, has been sentenced to punishment for three years and you've condemned him to silence, in a sense. The law in Croatia needs to be stopped. Maybe the best way to stop this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44353	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44354	Drugs are evil and we're at war with that evil, and we're losing that war. The drugs are getting bigger, the consummation's getting bigger, and we're getting more and more powerless. So we have to ask ourselves, logically, why is that? First of all, you're not telling the truth. Here's fellow Roshin, and many others here say the government has done what is in her power. The government has adopted a strategy, adopted an action plan, implemented an action plan, and is therefore successful. Well, that's not why she's successful. If the consumer is increasingly, if the drugs are on the market more and the government has adopted and implemented a strategy and action plan, then that means that neither strategy nor action plan is necessary and that it is absolutely in vain to implement a bad strategy and a bad action plan. Because the implementation of this strategy and this action plan leads to a further defeat in this drug war. Next, this problem is mentioned illogically, and it's said, "Look at each and every one of the most difficult heroine addicts has started with one joint." Well, that's true, but that doesn't mean that anyone who burns one joint will end up a heavy addict. Because it's a similar skill set like when you say watch every university professor start out as a first grade primary school. Well, that's true, but that doesn't mean that anyone who finishes first grade primary school is going to be a university professor. Every heavy alcoholic started with one glass of alcohol, so right, but that doesn't mean that anyone who drinks a glass of alcohol will end up as a heavy alcoholic. But why are we talking about this problem like this? Because it's simpler, because we think we did something when we said such an illogical sentence, and we didn't do anything. Because we have an excuse in front of ourselves when we're so casually, when we're so superficially speaking with a deep misunderstanding about a big problem. The question is, who is our enemy here if we're at war? And they should be at war with drugs. I'm afraid the government has identified the wrong enemy. Are our enemies addicts, consumers, or is our enemy an organizer of drug trafficking? If they are addicts, if they are consumers and then the strategy and action plan are remarkable and the government is phenomenally successful because this war against consumers the government successfully wins. But if they're our drug dealers, and they're supposed to be our enemies, if they're our enemies, then we lose the war. Here's how, here's the data that confirms it. In total crime related to drug abuse, 75.1% refers to possession. Over two-thirds. In the rulings, 62.2%, fines 26.7% are conditional. The judiciary deals with the government's enemy, with consummations, and out of the total number of indictees for all forms of action, the drug trafficking association, to this, the drug trafficking association is only 5%. It is the success of the government, it is the success of the strategy and it is the success of the action plan. He's a successful 5%. So, out of the total number of charges, only 5% is against those who have organised, who have teamed up, who have created criminal organisations to get rich in drug trafficking. And now it is said in Parliament that the government is successful and that it has done everything in its power. What about education? The funds were cut in this budget by 40%, that's what the government did. She's cut down 40% on school education. That's how the government fights drugs, that's the image and opportunity of this government. It's a picture of her success and her real desire, willing to deal with this evil. I stood up for it, and I'm pushing for a mandatory class to be introduced into an elementary school that would be called addiction. Since the first grade of elementary school, all eight classes. In high school, we're in four classes. A mandatory subject of addiction because it's not just drugs, there's nicotine, there's alcohol, there's new addictions, there's TV addiction, there's cell phone addiction, there's gambling, there's Internet addiction. New dangers, new challenges. If the government came with such a proposal and provided funds for it then I would believe this government that she really means to deal with this. But when she cuts budget funds small anyway, poor thing, 40%, then I can't trust that government. What about the IRS? Well, drugs are traded for profit. Well, that money ends up somewhere, so there's some kind of house being built out of that money, so some ships are being bought. What's the IRS doing? What the USCOK does that must fight organised crime, which is organised crime and organised crime must be our greatest enemy, not our consumers. Has anyone in this country ever questioned how the former prime minister and the money he bought a house from, built a house or bought a house in Zagreb? Did someone from the IRS come in and say, "How much was your profit? How many taxes did you pay and how much money did you have left to buy that house?" Dear friends, until the issue is raised in this country, there is no fight against organised crime, no anti-corruption, no drugs. Tax administration, BREAK, but each of us here must ask such questions. From Sanader to beyond. It's the only way we're gonna trace this dirty money made on children's lives. What did the police department do? Why don't we have a civilian cop in front of elementary schools? Why don't they hunt dealers there? Nothing, none of it. We have a strategy and an action plan that the government is implementing, so it's supposed to be successful. If we don't focus if we don't turn the edge of our fight, if we don't get serious about this, the drugs will get bigger and more and more children will get hurt. And it will be the responsibility of this government, the responsibility of those drug advocates here is drugs, and it's all the same. We hunt for consummations, the addict becomes with the first joint. All those who do so and who approach this problem, help this drug lord to earn even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44355	Thank you. Your Honor, you cannot and do not have the right to invite anyone in this House to encourage or help increase the use of drugs. No one said that in this House, and I won't let you say it or say it and I'll give you a warning because of that statement you made. Thank you very much. And now we have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Stazic has made a really great comparison in the fight against corruption and the situation against drug abuse. Because in both cases, we have a whole page of the book of written strategies and action plans, and the results are that in the first and the small cases small fish enter the network, while large fish remain thick, thick, unprotected. It is an excellent comparison of your work of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Tax Administration, because we had cases that dealers were reported as house assistants at the Employment Service, and that they had huge villas, swimming pools, and that nobody noticed, which is actually very interesting. But what I particularly want to point out seems to be that someone deliberately makes the difference between decriminalization and legalization. And let me quote you one more time because it was left undetected what my colleague Picula said. Since the decriminalisation of drugs in Portugal, the number of street overdoses from 400 fell to about 290 cases annually, and the number of HIV infected fell dramatically from nearly 1,000 to 400 in 2006. Decriminalisation has shown that research has not had an impact on the increase of consumers, but on the increase in the number of people treated. The decriminalization of drugs and legalization is often identified. Legalisation completely eliminates criminal persecution for the production, sale and consumption of drugs, while decriminalisation does not only prosecute the consumption and possession of small amounts of drugs for personal use, and everything else is prohibited by law. So the public is trying to identify decriminalisation and legalisation, which is totally the opposite. And it is completely forgotten that in Croatia at the moment the biggest problem is the alcoholism of young people. And it has been directly scientifically proven that founding students, high school students, who consume increased alcohol later on, are given to heroin and cocaine.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44357	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44358	I will answer to your colleague Jovanovic and turn away from the danger of getting another warning, and another warning means taking away the words speaking on this topic. When the facts that science puts before us are ignored, when it is persistently refused to accept what you have now presented about the decriminalization of light drugs, which science has confirmed not politics, we do not suggest you, Lucin, me, SDP because it is so convenient for us to discuss. When it refuses to accept it, it means that the network set up to get into it by drug dealers, deliberately folded down so that there are large shafts. On purpose. So when I say that whoever does it on purpose, who keeps refusing to change the law, who keeps refusing to apply scientific achievements in that law, that he does nothing but helps organised crime to make a living on drugs. Because the police are exhausting themselves in catching consummations instead of fighting the organizers. I repeat, therefore, what I have said to anyone who allows themselves to approach this problem on a flat-rate basis, anyone who allows himself to refuse to apply scientific achievements to legislation, in regulations, each one, each one, helps drug dealers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44359	Thank you. Now you've been driving on the edge. Let's move on with the replicas, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44360	A colleague first of all on this not courage, but on duty, it is your duty as an agent to tell the truth. Even when the truth is in Croatian society, and often also in the Croatian Parliament, it is exiled and due to adequate sanctions. I congratulate you on that. And in this way I encourage both myself and you, and everyone else to tell the truth, because we are invited to tell the truth. Of course, some get excited when you mention the words righteousness, truth, spirits that work, and that's understandable. But for now, we leave them only to their conscience. However, this information which is alarming, which is objective, which is nothing arbitrary, where we've all had opportunities to get acquainted with these data and to polarize them and to say something about them, that all prison sentences that have been imposed, almost 30% of the sanctions imposed, are pronounced precisely for possession or the most bazaar work of drug trafficking. That's when one poor guy from the street adds to the other neighbor. That's the trade, and when you talk about this 5%, that's only 5% of the drug trade, then that 5% doesn't apply to narcotics, drug dealers, cartels, their managers, producers and importers. It's just that because it's legally stabilized, drug dealers become exactly a young man and a girl when they split a joint. That's the five percent. And the judiciary has told you clearly, it has sent a message, that it must punish them for three years and where to send them, into these Croatian documents which, just then, due to inappropriate, inadequate conditions, become schools, because adequate treatment cannot be given to them, which they require, and even according to court decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44361	Thank you. We still have another replica. Dear Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44362	Thank you very much. Well, here we go, Mr. Stazic. I totally agree with your debate. A colleague, Jovanovic, compared that part of your debate about corruption, and I would like to compare with the general way of working in Croatia that everything is somehow turned upside down. As suggested and observed, the problem of drugs is also seen in health care. So our government is constantly acting on principle to treat better than to prevent. When there's a problem then it's being observed whether 5% or 6% reduction was so we say that we were successful and if there was an increase then we try again somehow to show that we weren't very successful. So it's all made upside down and I think that these principles of better prevention than healing are so old and entrenched and everybody knows that really man wonders whether things are deliberately set up in this way that they're set up. It reminds me of it all together, I'm going to say something picturesque, like you have a plant that's sick and instead of cutting it in the roots because the disease has to spread and the neighboring plants you rip off a certain percentage of the sick leaves every year, and you're boasting about how you've done a big thing instead of simply cutting things in the roots. What's trying to create the impression that SDP is watching light drugs in another light and doesn't see the problem of easy drugs that's absolutely not true. These things can't be even and it's not the same to be a drug dealer and act on the root thing and be a kid with a joint in his pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44363	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44364	With me just wondering if this SDP cry is coming because of a lack of understanding of the problem or because it's wanted to do absolutely nothing in this area. People all of us who are parents so tell me one who if he has a child in his adolescent age whose greatest parental fear but absolutely the greatest is not before his child falls to the challenge of drugs. So do you think someone in the SDP would advocate the decriminalization of easy drugs irresponsiblely because we are not aware of the problem. Can you really banalize this debate with one of the greatest evils that way? We're proposing methods that we believe will be more effective because these are inefficient, so we can tell from the plane. We suggest that we change tactics, change our way of war, change our weapons not to please consumers to vote for SDP but to be more efficient as a society, together to be more effective against this greatest evil. So when you're so banalizing these suggestions, then it's a big question whether you're doing it out of complete misunderstanding or really doing it because you don't want to deal with this crime, which you don't want to find out who bought the house and what money it was from.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44365	Thank you. I think I still have to say and intervene on some things here. I saw a lot of broken families because I was the Home Office Minister at the time when the first departments in the police were created in the fight against drugs. And I know what evil is, but don't make it an attempt in this House to be a bigger fighter or a smaller fighter to fight drugs. Whoever might even be in the idea of fighting drugs is not really worth sitting here, and there is no place to politicize, but to solve these problems, because that's what the world has to do with this big problem is telling you this fight in Mexico where 15 thousand soldiers are involved with the police to fight the drug lords or those who deal with that drug. Therefore, I would ask you to go towards the end of the debate without being declared and not to label those who only think differently. Dear Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44366	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is very difficult to say, at least in general, from what is not said today, that drugs are a big problem, that drugs may be after lack of substance, people's problems, wars that today have not found adequate answers, or where the permanent struggle of society, states, communities against this problem takes place. The problem is creating huge problems for the individual, the family, the society, that is, the economy and it is causing great damage, and today we all agree on it. However, about how we should fight this monster even more effectively, we are probably different here, but I am convinced that what we are doing today is finding better, better, more efficient and productive measures to counter this drug evil. The drug problem is around us. The worst part is we stick our heads in the sand and say he doesn't exist. The worst thing is that statistics fool us or deceive us. However, when we are aware, I hope that the problem that is growing, which we have not yet begun to reduce, let alone touch or win. That's what the big business is talking about all over the world, big money, a business that probably has the biggest growth trends in income. And therefore, it says that this problem is present among us. However, the problem regardless of the strategy, the action plan I must say immediately at the beginning that I support these amendments and amendments to the law so much because the progress on the three things we have located, which are more important, is that it solves the issue of relations with drug destruction chemicals. And also in a term that is not only monotechnically or nomotechnically, and it's about now talking about drugs. To solve this problem, two ways to solve it, prevention and repression. Prevention, prevention, prevention and prevention, and first of all, I will not quantify the relationship between prevention and repression, but prevention is crucial. Key as in many things when certain deformities or anomalies are present. Prevention that must begin since the birth of the child today, prevention that must be implemented through the family, as far as possible, through educational institutions, kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, etc., institutions, associations and there is the role of society, politics and ultimately the Parliament as the highest legislative body in the Republic of Croatia. In order to adequately fight this, prevention must be designed and prevention never enough in that part. We are witnessing today that families have problems, families have problems, the economic situation is such, the crisis is in our society and a very fertile soil for drug use. I'll talk about drugs as such and use that term. The drug used not only out of curiosity or out of need but also drugs used, I don't know if it's said here today, to get away from the problem because the drug still affects a man in a way that the reality, which can be bad, especially today, makes him more beautiful, better, when everything looks like someone would say pink. Therefore, in prevention we must do and in prevention we have room to do. As for repression, repression and what we're talking about today, I have to say that decriminalization in the part we're talking about and that I'm talking about right now doesn't mean the legalization of drugs, but it only means so much that we can see which method, given that the problem that is present and growing is more effective to eradicate this evil. We'll all agree, now Vice President of the Parliament has just said that 15 thousand soldiers are fighting drugs in Mexico and in the countries of Central America. Yeah, they're fighting it, they're fighting drug breeders, so they're fighting production. Fortunately, we do not have this problem, unfortunately, that we have to fight the producers for their reasons, besides the geographical ones, but we also have opportunities and we have problems dealing drugs, with drug trafficking, means the arrival of drugs to our premises, with drug trafficking and ultimately the consummation. And here I would like very clearly to say that the biggest problem in society is the arrival and trafficking of drugs and it is absolutely a crime and there should be the point of a repressive apparatus to oppose this drug problem in this particular way. As for the consumer, the consumer as such, at least that's how I understand him, as a patient. The consumer is a patient, he's a person with a problem and fortunately today medicine has the answers to that. It is that it takes a long time, that it is a difficult solution, but these are usually patients that can be, should and must be helped. That is why the role of the repressive apparatus must not be the point and essence, that is, the accent, and what we have all listened to before, regardless of where they came from, exactly according to the consumer, according to who had the drug in his pocket means the one who had to do the personal need, so I will make a distinction, even the one who was forced because he has no money, and he can't move away from drug addiction and drugs or drug trafficking to get drugs, so that he can consume it. He's all over me, and that's where you'll all agree, sicko. Therefore, this is not about an organised trader and organised dealing. Why am I saying that? Well, because today the repressive apparatus and the percentages we've heard have just been given an accent on consummation. Unfortunately, and I know reliably, you have an example of a young drug consumption for their reasons where families are broken, where it's awesome, where it can't even describe what happened to parents' efforts, unfortunately and probably lonely where society in this situation, especially in our 18 years, can accept and justify reasons where it might not have been a focus on that problem. So where's the problem, where it comes from people who aren't criminals, or who didn't participate in any criminal acts other than the consumption and possession of drugs, that they're convicted, that they're in prison. And that's where I accept, because it's about people who are then in these institutions and such institutions, where you're going to agree, serving a punishment with criminals, with people who've made such, such or serious crimes until the murder, conveniently the ground is just then to deform such persons. Why am I saying that? So because such persons, and I will end up there, should be treated as patients and sent to institutions, whether these are such institutions, associations, etc., communes, to try to save themselves because medicine said unfortunately, it takes a long time to save themselves. Therefore, the repressive apparatus must be focused on business, on those who earn and who bring misfortune to families, families, or society, and consumers if they have not committed crimes in that part must be focused as patients and try to help them, a normal thing. And that's where we have to look for rules. And I end up, I agree, it must be a product of debate, and here we know the opinions of both legal professionals and criminals etc. what they're suggesting. So, I end up, I've already said it three times, but now I'm going to say last time, decriminalization in that context is looking for solutions to, and legalization of drugs is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44367	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44368	Well, here's a esteemed fellow Coslevac, I just wanted to say today we've heard a lot of theories about prevention, and nobody probably has any idea how to do it. I'll tell you at least firsthand. Schools are organized, although you claim nothing to be done, rather good drug debates have been organised. Even drug addicts were brought in, formerly treated addicts, and I can tell you that the result was everything we didn't expect, not what we expected. So many kids are interested, younger ones. So not only was the younger age but the older ones were interested and there were comments, so when he was able to heal why we couldn't too. That's one thing. Secondly, if we're talking about only catching those with come-on dealers, etc. Well, you know, you've heard countless times that dealers carry with them extremely small amounts. So either way, every drug dealer will get away with being an addict. So there's nothing here. And if we know what we heard a little while ago, if we know who those big ones behind the little ones are, then it's our duty to say. That's him and that one, not telling stories here about something we obviously don't know about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44369	Replica reply, distinguished representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44370	Dear Vice President, dear colleague. I know very well what prevention and prevention is, given the nature of my work, because I'm a fireman based on basic education. And if I go with that assumption that we have to teach people how to crash and fire doesn't happen, that someone will become a pyromaniac if they're going to intrigue someone in some percentage. But most people figure out what it's all about and act like it. So when I talk about drug prevention, or prevention, I'm talking about education. I agree, but you didn't mention parental education, education of responsible persons in institutions, institutions, schools, teachers, educators, and especially parents. You know when parents first met that problem? So when their kid, when they started having problems with the kid, they just met up with that problem. There's space, we can work through various associations, institutions, schools, through parenting, I mean through the institution of a parenting meeting if we want to. So there's room. There's room here. Here's to that prevention I meant colleague, not to talk about media and media presence. I didn't think we could explain to a little kid at 7, 8, 10 years old what a drug is and everything's pink to someone. I agree he'll be intrigued to see how pink it is. However, I am talking about the problem that arises in society. You need to educate people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44371	Thank you. And the second is the replica, the distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44372	Dear Coslevac, I will also look back in my replica at... The one you spoke about a lot in your discussion, and the one you mentioned many times. [[You can't hear the phone.]] Namely, the extent of drug consumption and all other types of addiction are actually one side or other of the medals of the current reality. On the one hand, the fight for profit. So, there's as much as possible, and on the other hand there's a struggle for survival. Because unfortunately, more and more of those who have nothing or almost nothing leave exactly the parents that you have mentioned are less and less time to raise and care for children. Also extensive school programs that we will certainly talk about this afternoon much more when we discuss the offered Law on textbooks. So, these school programs leave less and less room for education schools, and we know that schools are primarily educational, then educational institutions, or institutions. So, we're getting less and less with kids, and we're getting less and less grown up, and we don't have time to live with kids, and we don't really have time to teach them the right values, and that's what opens up a space for all sorts of drug addictions over alcohol, up to the day-to-day sitting in front of a computer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44373	Thank you. You've reached out to me now. I mean, without intending to take it away from you. But I think we need to stick to order. We're moving on to an individual discussion. [[Intruder: I accept.]] Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44374	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A debate on a law that has been relatively short for four hours and a law that changes the existing legal text against which no MP in the debate so far has said anything at all. Therefore, all the provisions offered by the applicant concern, first and foremost, compliance with the European Union system, and then strengthening and tightening the system of control over the precursors, or those who produce and use them. Then, adding a provision giving the possibility to destroy drugs, seized drugs, and before the power of judgment or a solution. These are all provisions, that is, new solutions that were welcomed by all MPs, some of whom did not mention them at all. And these are all provisions that are good provisions. Unfortunately, some of them were asked here in the debate last year and the clan, so we're told that's out of the question. Here is what the promoter has now heard what a group of experts have said to deal with this problem a little more seriously. But if that's the case, then the question is why is the discussion for four hours? Is this really a debate where MPs will listen to themselves, because they like to listen to themselves or is it just because the cameras were involved? That's not true. Mr. Golem, who hopefully listened to these four hours, and it wasn't easy to get out of here with very important information. The debate proves that the concept is not functional. The debate testifies that whoever proposes the laws must be more serious about changing the paradigm. It's been said several times. As soon as the word decriminalization from the conservative political paradigm comes up, it's raining right away that it's legalization. It's a setting of thesis and it takes a hundred times, obviously, to finally sit down. Discussing the decriminalisation of light drugs is an entirely legitimate conversation, such as the thesis against it completely legitimate, but it is not legitimate to impose that it is legalisation. These are two completely opposite concepts, because in a particular case when a debate on decriminalisation is sought only to possess and use negligible small amounts of drugs transferred from criminal to criminal zone and its... And here a fam is being created that this will increase the number of consumers, increase the number of people who will come under pressure and give in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why are these examples of Italy, Spain, Portugal mentioned? First of all, because they had far bigger and more pronounced problems than we have, regardless of what we think the problems we have in drug abuse are not even small, negligible, even more. But since it is, when those who faced this problem are much more serious than we are, and have a much longer tradition than we do, they estimate that we need to change the paradigm and that we need to approach a new model of suppressing this drug abuse. Why don't we look smarter than ourselves? Why is it always something worse than us? It is not a sin to learn from better, smarter, more successful and those who go ahead, but as long as there is no dominant liberal paradigm in this case, but conservatively, we will not change that approach, and that is clear. We can talk as much as we want and whatever we want, it won't change. Let's see what's going on. We put these tiny consumables in prisons that are covered anyway, and we take room for these big bangs that no longer have a place to lie down, or sit down, and here lately, there's a little bit more order in front of the prison door. And what's going on? Those poor people who are tiny consumers, who aren't even addicts, we're pushing them into the plowings of a system where, if anything else, it's drug-king. So what are we blind to not see in the reports of the work of the Croatian prison system as far as the drug problem is expressed right in prisons? Prisons are where you can easily access drugs. On the other hand, these circuses that are being staged so-called. By the trials of the big fish, they've really become a laughing stock. So look what the trial of this famous drug dealer from Korčula looks like. How it all went together and where it ended. Well, it's a saga in sequels and... clearly there are ways to sneak out of this penal system and laugh in the mustache of the entire nation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, a hundred and 50 million kuna per year costs the state the fact that it deals mainly with small consumptions that, if they were punished, would still bring revenue to the state budget, not the cost. If we invest these money in a systematic fight against large fish, and we need to know that we are on that Balkan route not only exposed to the fact that drugs are being offered to our citizens, but we are also responsible for almost half of the European Union, because that route goes through our territory and everything that passes through Croatia goes on in the European Union. And that is why no one can convince me that the Republic of Croatia, with well-designed policy in this area, is able to achieve much more concrete, if you want more complex projects in cooperation with the European Union. I am sure that the European Union would have heard very much about joint projects that would care for the tail and on the way of these big smugglers, because they know that 90% or even 95% of the complete drug that passes through the territory of the Republic of Croatia ends up in their backyard, burden their prison system, their crime miles and their health system. Someone did, they mentioned a lot of fellow preventers. I'm asking you nicely to look at the official reports of that prevention. See what percentage of children, school populations include regular lectures, theatre performances, actions taken by police administrations. Well, that's funny. So who are we kidding? In one county, 10 to 15 classes are included, and we say it is prevention. What are we talking about? Well, that's one to two percent of the kids in total, who gets information at all. And we think that in eight years of primary schooling, a child gets one such information or once in four years of secondary schooling, that it's covered, solved. We've been acting preventively. It is simply that this information should be kept available or made available. And where? How many youth information centres do we have in the Republic of Croatia? Look at the reports of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, how much money is spent on these centres. It's all funny together. And we need to be aware of that. We are responsible for this paradigm, because it can only be changed by changing the laws in the Croatian Parliament. And in that sense, no one should be offended when it is said that we are responsible. It is not good to repeat these stories every year rather than get feed back from those who are in charge of proposing amendments to the regulations. I'm also interested in the fact that the new head of this office is a professional criminal, a man we know has been systematically involved in drug abuse for 30 years. And in that sense, I expect that initiative will come from that office at last, in a more serious and radical way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44375	Thank you. I just want to warn you of one fact, which is that Croatian police actively participate in international action against drugs and that many of the actions that have been on the territory of Croatia, as well as across Europe and the world and the Croatian police, together with others, have acted together in this effort because without such cooperation, there would be no such results so far. And we have the last individual debate. We're gonna have to finish it anyway. And this is the distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am, as closely as I could listen to almost everyone here who has spoken so far, and I firmly remained in the intention of waiting for their exposure because I simply think that at some of these so far some claims should be answered. So first of all, what we need to say is how we sort of interpret the same data that we all have available and what we see in them and how I would even say, we manipulate the data. That's inadmissible. So according to treatment data on psychoactive drug addiction, the situation is relatively stable in Croatia. So relatively stable. Whose position is that? This is not Ivan Bagarić's position, nor the HDZ club, but reports of persons treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs in the Republic of Croatia in 2008, from the Croatian Institute of Public Health. So that's the point of view of the profession. And they say and conclude about, when it comes to the condition, I don't know what we're talking about, next. I say we can conclude that in Croatia, the operation of a system for prevention of addiction and non-patient treatment of addicts has had a significant impact on today's situation, and although drugs in society are increasingly available and cheaper, there has been no significant increase in the number of addicts. So it didn't come. Then this speaks of what we have in the system and what kind of health care we have as part of that system. Not only health care can answer that, however, it is an answer to those who say we do not have good prevention and we do not have good health care. Secondly, from the quote or quote in the same report, it says: "the growth of the number of deaths can be explained by the increasing presence of drugs in the general population, by better co-operation in determining the cause of death and by more frequent toxicological analysis." So simply the health system has entered into this problem and is dealing with and carrying it. When there was a talk here about the decriminalisation of light drugs, then something was said and that I didn't know about those countries that accepted it, they reduced HIV-positive prevention, etc., and according to this report here, it says: "HIV is very rare and is 0.5%." We can thank this for many years of permanent education, good information, pharmacotherapy, the work of the consultation centre and the replacement of needles or syringes. Therefore, none of the arguments that are stated here that we do not have a good system, that health care is not good, that the government does not work well in this context does not stand, but not that it does not stand from my point of view and my interpretation but does not stand from the available data. Dear fellow Richembergh, when you talk about learning, I fully agree that Croatia and all of us here are learning from each other, but let's not leave the position that we haven't already learned and that based on what we learn and on the experience we have, we can't be teachers and others. And what do we have to run and look for knowledge where we can't actually find it? So besides the School of National Health, next to the Croatian Institute of Public Health and despite all the traditions that Croatia has at this time when it comes to prevention, etc., I think we can be proud of it and I don't think we should be breaking down right now and looking for new knowledge especially not applicable to our circumstances and our situation. When it comes to the decriminalization of light drugs, so my people here have heard even from fellow doctors Jovanovic, and then normally it is wrongly interpreted as to God's scientific evidence that in countries where something is decriminal, it is actually easier to deal with the problem of drugs. Well, that's completely unfounded, completely incorrect. For what reason? Well, because there's not a single heroin addict who didn't start marijuana, he's gone. He's almost gone, so he's almost gone. Between taking the first marijuana in life and taking heroin for two years. So what's our goal? Well, I guess our goal is to push drugs as far away from those groups as possible, so I don't know, school kids then high school kids, students, etc., so don't make it available to them. It is made as far away as possible or if someone will take it at a later age. Therefore, speaking about how it would be good to decriminalize and in this way whatever anyone said, I know it's not legalisation, but it's safe to do even more available drugs, and then run prevention and fight drugs is actually a crazy concept and totally unacceptable. I know that people who are divided opinions based primarily on this one value attitude, what we have just heard is whether it is liberal or conservative, but it is absolutely unacceptable to use such data which is clear and which clearly speak for the benefit of doing very well in Croatia, that it can be better done and that it can be progressed is quite understandable, but the facts are absolutely inexplicable. So, unfortunately here we have been discussing for a really long time today, we have discussed a law that is very important. I believe that this debate was exclusively a fruit and a desire to make a contribution to cope and to deal with this problem even more successfully. I would quote a single opinion for the end of my debate, I say a brief debate. I think it's very important and I think it's good to think about it. Why? Well, because no system in the world can protect any individual unless an individual makes his own contribution and protects himself. And about this is a quote which reads, "My will was kept in captivity by the enemy, and he made me chains from it, and he whispered in them, for out of defiled will a lust was born, and while I was slaved, a habit was born. And since I didn't resist habit, there was an emergency. As to any link between them, I was held silent, cruel slavery." That slavery has been resisted, and this is the thought written by a man a thousand and a half years ago by St. Augustin, who is very current today, is talking about personal responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44377	Thank you. And we have another debate, five minutes on behalf of the HDSSB club, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44378	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I listened carefully to my colleagues and fellow MPs, although few, I listened carefully to this four-hour debate in connection with the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Discussion of Drug Abuse and indeed after all these discussions that have been held here today and which I believe are very well-intentioned of all speakers, in fact in one question, and I am also well-intentioned and I will speak in this sense because I come from Slavonski Brod, which is actually on the Balkan route, a city called "the door of Bosnia" and which is a border city with great risk of both drug dealing and drug use, so also numerous cases that we encounter there. Mr. Bagaric spoke well here and said "put the drugs as far away as possible" if I understood correctly and remembered what he was going to say. However, to push drugs as far away as possible calls for what can be done, except for the word of St. The Augustines he quoted, which are very wise, and the repressive apparatus. So, push the drugs. Who can push someone? Repressive apparatus. And here we are talking about a bill that doesn't have a label E even though someone here in the benches said it's an adjustment to Europe and European standards, and yet this law doesn't bear an E mark, so it's not P.Z.E. It's just P.Z. It is good that these provisions of this law apply to the Ministry of Health, i.e. the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and all that is written here in connection with this is quite fine. By listening also to proposals on decriminalisation, and counter-legislation as a concept, then actually also the debate on severe prevention, so on the raising and introduction of a mandatory subject to primary school, including high school, which would call the fight against addiction or addiction, it's also about drugs and alcohol, tobacco, gambling, cyberdependence, and a whole series of addictions that exist today in this modern world, then we actually come into one contradiction, when we analyze better. Thus, the prevention that was thus discussed against addiction would indicate that even easy drugs are not used. So you don't get in touch with easy drugs. And then we have the notion of decriminalization. So wait, if we're gonna prevent drug use and drug use, then we don't even need decriminalization. So we don't believe in success, that with decriminalization we're going to achieve some kind of massive improvement, a statistical improvement in the use of light drugs and other drugs. So there is no one credibility in that sense. In addition to European experiences in terms of the fight against drugs, which I support, there are other world experiences that I have talked about before. Unfortunately, they may be European for our concepts, and I'm talking about a case of solving such things in Malaysia, completely unacceptable, not some kind of democratic etc. Although that fight is very successful. Unfortunately, it is obviously not applicable or mentioned here as a possibility within Europe, but remains some Asian specific instrument. And you know, most of you know how Malaysia handles it. And let me say one more thing about the statistics that's been said here, and that is added to the report every year as progress, progress in the fight against intoxicating drugs, and we all know that drug abuse is one like an ice dream. So nine tenths is underwater, nine tenths are unknown, and only one tenth we actually know and one tenth we treat with either prevention, either by curative treatment, or by a repressive apparatus in terms of criminal or criminal charges. Anyway, I'm here to lead the way, if we need to change the tactics of the fight against drugs, to try to do everything we can to bring this evil, to bring this monster down to a minimum today, if we can't end it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44379	Thank you. We begin the session, so now we interrupt and continue the session at 15.00 hours, with the second item of the agenda, that is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Ivan Filipović Prize, second reading, P.Z. Number 409. I wish you who are here and those who are not good at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44380	4. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, second reading, P.Z. number 392. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Sima Luchin's representative. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Here you go, Secretary of State, Mr. Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go. First, Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44381	It's unacceptable. It is in this law that we change it according to European legislation, and by creating the essence of the word "drug intoxication", and the change in both easy and heavy drugs, which is both academic names and directives, nor in any member of the European Union, nor in the world are drug-sharing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44382	Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44383	Thank you very much. Well, the purpose of this amendment was to encourage the ministry to definitely create some kind of drug register in Croatia. We're the only country I know where the drugs, the drugs, where different types of drugs don't differ. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44384	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44385	It is also not accepted, because there is already a register of drugs and there is no need to make a new register.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44386	Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44387	I didn't understand at all. There's a drug register?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44388	There's a register.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44389	There's no register of drugs, because if there was a drug register, then the judiciary could do its job. Probably keeping that register secret somewhere. Until we change access to this problem, simply Croatia will not get results. I don't understand why we don't look at how our neighbours are Slovenians, Austrians, don't go any further. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44390	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the control of drug abuse. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed by a majority of 105 votes for, 4 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44391	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. On the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Act on "The Ivan Filipović Award", second reading, P.Z. No. 409 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Drazen Vikić Topic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44392	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs. Here is the final proposal for amendments to the "Ivan Filipović Award" Act, which, as you know, is in the first version of 1991. It has been shown from the practice so far that the number of prizes for life's work should be increased and, of course, balanced with the number of annual awards that have been 17 so far, and the prize for life's work was only one. The proposal which, apart from some terminology and some nomotechnical changes, was the main point of the proposal was to reduce the number of annual awards from 17 to 15, and therefore to increase the number of these rewards for living work from one to two, as this would actually not affect anything in view of the current economic situation in us would not affect anything on the budget, additional resources. In the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, it would not be necessary. I will not burden you very much, you know that these awards are given to significant achievements to prominent workers, scientists in the field of education or a group of scientists and educators if they have achieved some significant works in the past year or in recent years, as well as for the work of life, that is clear to all, meaning in the field of pedagogy and education. Here's the short part about our last final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44393	Thank you. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44394	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 23rd session of November 26th this year the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the "Ivan Filipović Award", P.Z. No. 409. The Committee considered the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. Based on the implementation of the "Ivan Filipovic Award" law so far and the first reading process of the bill, it has been shown to reduce the amount of annual awards from a possible 17 to 15, and to increase the number of prizes for living work from 1 to 2. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been put forward to determine the possibility of awarding 4 prizes for the work of life, one for each of four areas, means preschool education, primary school, high school and university. With the final draft of the law, the Proposer remains at the original position, assessing that there are no financial budgetary options for so many prizes for life's work, and that the two prizes for life's work can be aligned with the already achieved criteria for the "Ivan Filipovic Awards". On the occasion of the proposal to bring the standards and means of proposal closer to the level of the law, instead of regulating these issues by the implementing regulation, the Proposer prevents the existing rules on the work of the Committee for the Award of the Ivan Filipović Award from regulating the way the Committee and the criteria of the Committee and the Commission for certain areas in a way that makes it unnecessary for this matter to now be introduced into the amendments and amendments of the law. None of the board members, which is very important, have declared themselves against the two Lifetime Work Awards proposal and a reduction from 17 to 15 annual awards. But part of the members, which reflected in the vote, demanded that the number of prizes for life's work immediately increase to 4. The committee members were divided around the position of the applicant who did not accept the proposal in the debate on the draft law, which was expressed in response to the vote. I repeat, no one was opposed to increasing the number of prizes for life's work from 1 to 2 but part of the board felt that the number of prizes for life's work should be increased immediately to 4. An increase from 1 to 2 was possible without other budgetary procedures, as two awards for annual awards were reduced, and precisely that ratio was sufficient to cover the prize for life's work. After the discussion was held, the committee members finally voted on the draft law with the following outcome: to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the law 4 so as not to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of Law 3, abstentions 1. Therefore, the final epilogue of the law did not receive most of the votes of the members present on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44395	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Šima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44396	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law amending the "Ivan Filipović Award" Act is before us. In the introduction, we would like to say something about Ivan Filipovic, those colleagues and colleagues who are not from the educational class. Ivan Filipovic was born in 1823 in Velika Kopanica in Brod-Posavina County. He was a Croatian pedagogue and writer, an enthusiastic liliac and a supporter of Strossmayer's people's party. He was the leader of Croatian teachers, editor and co-editor of several magazines and writer of readers and beginners, the starter of the Croatian Pedagogical Literature Assembly and the Association of Croatian Teacherships. He stood up for a free and independent school. He graduated from high school in Vinkovci, and worked as a teacher in Novi Gradiška, Požega, Mitrovica and in Zagreb at the Kaptol school where his teaching work and advocacy for Croatian teachers and Croatian teachers were fully expressed. That is why we can say that with the right reward for life’s work and the annual reward bear his name. The Lifetime Work Award is awarded to prominent educational workers, scientists and experts whose teaching, scientific and professional work is a permanent contribution to educational and educational activities in the Republic of Croatia. Given the increased number of proposals for a Lifetime Work Award, the Award Committee proposes to reduce the number of annual awards by two, meaning from 17 to 15, and the Lifetime Work Award increases from 1 to 2 prizes. So in the Law on "The Ivan Filipović Award", "The National Journal", No. 61/91, Article 2 is amended as follows: The prize is awarded as an annual prize and as a reward for life's work. Two prizes for life's work can be awarded every year and up to 15 prizes, 15 annual awards." Articles 2 to 6 shall contain wording. For all things, we at the Croatian Democratic Community club support the Final Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Ivan Filipović Prize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44397	Thank you. HNS representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44398	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In previous readings of this proposal, the HNS has expressed its view on several things, and in this bill I will look only at two categories. So, we proposed that the first prizes for life's work be given for all areas of education for preschool, primary schooling, secondary schooling, higher education and scientific work. Here's a little before we heard, the board president said there were four areas. I think there's... Okay. Secondly, we have proposed that criteria and means of proposing for the award be introduced into the law. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] What happened in the meantime and what is proposed under this final bill? The promoter, as we have heard, has raised the prize for life's work from one to two in a way that has reduced the annual prize from 17 to 15. I don't know what other than the financials was being run. And if it's both finance and financial resources, then it turns out that one prize for life's work is worth two annual prizes. And just before, we heard exactly what the secretary of state was saying, so using mathematics, it could be suggested that four prizes for life's work and reduced the annual rewards to 11 or how much it is, so the financial relationship would maintain the total mass that we have. I guess things can't really get that simple, because there are certainly criteria and reasons for 17 annual awards, so I wonder what's going on right now, because it's coming down from 17 to 15 to get, and like I said before, the Lifetime Work Award rises from one to two. That's not a good solution for HNS. We think that, as our member who had this discussion in the previous reading, should have stressed and underlined the award for life's work in all areas, so we suggest that four prizes be awarded for life's work and that an adequate number of prizes for the annual prize be reduced. If this is inconclusive, there is another solution, that one prize remains for the work of life, and that the act specifically arranges the order of the area by year when it will be the turn to run and nominate candidates from that area. And I'd like to ask one more question in the end. Why two prizes for life's work were awarded in 2008 when it still exists and the law which we know is regulated. Under this existing law, one prize for life’s work is awarded. I looked online today, printed it out, and I see that in 2008, we awarded two prizes for life's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44399	Thank you. Would you like some? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44400	We move on to the Final Bill on Amendments to the "Ivan Filipović" Award, second reading, P.Z. The number 409th debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the "Ivan Filipović" award. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by a majority of 81 votes in favour, one abstention and 25 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44401	Let's go to the next point - Proposed law on textbooks for elementary and high school, first reading, P.Z. No. 474. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. The applicant's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44402	On behalf of the club, I have to protest. Namely, the previous agenda item included among other things the issue of counterpart Danica Hursa, directly appointed to the government's representative. The man got up, took the bag and went out like it was none of his business. What is the behaviour of the Government's representative in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44403	And the parliamentary question is raised on a second occasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44404	That's not a representative question. This is a question to the proposing who depends on the support of this club to this proposal or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44405	Okay. The promoter found it appropriate, I asked him if he wanted the closing word, said yes, he gave a sign he didn't want. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44406	We're very good at government officials. Give them a call as often as possible!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44407	Don't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44408	At least a profile like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44409	Minister of Science, Education and Sports Radovan Fuchs will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44410	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives. You have before you the proposal for a law on textbooks in first reading. In this bill, the Ministry integrated and summed up everything we promised at the beginning of this government's mandate, which is that we will introduce order into a textbook flood that has been on the market and used in schools in the Republic of Croatia not only as regards textbooks but also all of those auxiliary teaching tools that have led to chaos and unwanted consequences since the beginning of this school year. The law you have ahead of you is based on four basic postulates, which is that textbooks have their own sustainability for a minimum period of four years, after which all textbooks are subject to review if something needs to be changed about the materials, or about the equipment of the textbook itself. Of course, that also means that some textbook can be used for more than four years, unless there are no objections. The general principle of teacher and teacher statement in the overall system of primary and secondary education is satisfied, in the choice of textbooks. So it does not stand in, according to the proposal of this law, a certain comment that appears in the public on the fact that teachers and teachers are excluded in giving an opinion on the quality of textbooks. In the first round, all teachers in the Republic of Croatia declare only those textbooks that receive the support of at least 10% of teachers for individual textbooks per class enter the so-called ". The second round, from which will then be selected those textbooks that are of quality and which is definitely the teacher's best opinion, but now of these best textbooks we choose to apply in schools the two that are at the cost of then the most acceptable. So the price does not determine the textbook, but only the highest quality then at the price are the ones to be chosen in the finals. After that, at school level, the teaching councils are declared one textbook per school, and such a selection is valid for the next four years. Of course, the law foresees small allegations, and there are legal solutions. I don't think we should go into a deeper presentation, you've all got the bill and there's definitely going to be a discussion about it. We contacted and consulted both the Public Procurement Office and the Competition Agency, and we have no objections from that side. We'll also deliver a written opinion. As to the question of whether the choice of textbooks can be made at the price even though the state does not obtain textbooks? It's a positive opinion. No competition is excluded. I would also like to say that the comments about the first stage of writing the first draft textbook and later were not included, which was one of the comments, stands, but they have the right and probably are, and we know that they have delivered their comments that will also be discussed here. What I can say is that in all the laws so far that everyone agrees that they were not good, directly participated and publishers and all others, so the laws did not turn out well, and now we will see and we are confident that this law will be good and will solve the permanent situation in the Republic of Croatia as far as the teaching policy is concerned. I would also like to say that this law and school bags will make it easier, not just the price of textbooks, because by means of a sublegal act, a textbook standard will define what a textbook is in a narrow sense and what a teaching tool is necessary for the implementation of a specific subject, which is an auxiliary teaching tool on the free market which directly decides on their use by a teacher, i.e. a teacher and in agreement with parents on whether they will be in use or not. I'm sure it'll cut the school bags, at least 40% if not more. On the other hand, the law also states that no child who is unable to obtain, or parents who are unable to obtain an auxiliary teaching tool that may have been recommended by a teacher, cannot be punished or penalized in any way. This law, of course, is written and based on the experience of practice in European countries, we have very detailedly analysed what practice is in certain countries. They're quite different. I note that the area of education is something that is the least regulated area within the European Union. That directive that regulates this segment is very broad and requires and requires exclusive respect for human rights, dignity, taking care of non-discriminatory teaching and programmes in schools, as well as what the textbooks say. So the learning standard is an additional document that will define and regulate a lot of things after the adoption of this law and, among other things, clearly define how, in which way textbooks will be printed, paper quality, quality of press, photography, import and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44411	Thank you. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Committee Chairman, Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44412	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on basic and secondary textbooks, P.Z., at the 23rd session of November 26th. 474. The Committee considered the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted as always by the proposing representatives. The proposal for a law seeks to remove the current situation in the area of choice of textbooks and textbook publishing, marked by a large number of textbook titles of short duration and too high retail prices. The proposal for a law assumes the adoption of a new teaching standard, which will prescribe which textbooks are deemed to be complementary teaching tools for individual teaching subjects mandatory to use in the course, which will reduce the weight of the student bag by more selective and stricter approach in relation to textbooks and supplementary curricula. There's a follow-up... public competitions in which two textbooks have been selected which have passed the quality assessment and have offered the most necessary price in the contest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the criteria will be lower the price of the proposed textbooks. Finally, the bill sets out an obligation under which, following a detailed procedure for the authorisation of textbooks, the school’s professional activity chooses one textbook from each teaching course, and the textbook will be used for four years in that school. This opens up a greater possibility of replacing textbooks among students. The debate discussed all the important issues of the new legislative proposal, compared with so far solutions and experiences, in the implementation of the so far variants of the Law on textbooks. An effort was made to predict what would lead to and under what conditions new solutions would be implemented in the selection and use of textbooks. It has been concluded that the current state of multiplication of the title and the short life of the textbook should be put to rest. From the need to teach children respect for the book, for reasons of social status, the student and parent populations are the fastest. Discussions seek to answer such questions as: How do you avoid the possibility of corruption of those who decide on this choice of textbooks? Especially through donations to schools? Should the choice be done at school level or left to individual teachers? Is there enough choice between two textbooks or would it be better to have at least 3 in the selection? How will the agencies involved in the selection process evaluate the proposed textbooks? Under what conditions will it be possible to include prominent experts as external associates in the process? That's all the questions. Do they point to possible gaps if the regulation on the evaluation of textbooks is not harmonised every 4 years with the dynamics of the adoption of the National Educational Girlculum and the girls concerned? As one of the specific questions is the question of textbooks with small stories, whether it is textbooks for students in the languages of national minorities or for the purposes of some vocational and other schools with a small number of students for some educational profiles? A further question arises whether additional financial incentives for publishers are foreseen for such cases and are they appropriate, are they sufficient or perhaps too high? It has also been pointed out that the price cannot be an exclusive criterion in the choice of textbooks, but such comments have been argued that in the first round of selection, it is important quality, and only after the first selection has been carried out, after the first selection has passed, is proposed, therefore in the second phase, to make the price an important criterion. In particular, it is stressed that appropriate legal solutions must respect existing normative acts such as law, education and education in primary and secondary schools, and in order for the proposed system to be launched, documents such as the training standard, national and the girls in question are needed. The board members support the fundamental intention of the bill to introduce order on the textbook market, to address the possibilities of commercially conditional pressures and to ensure the relative sustainability of textbooks. But on all the above as well as any other approach solutions, such as the issue of existing printed textbooks, there is one mass of printed textbooks that are still not used by the publisher, the proposer will need to answer the second reading through the establishment of the final bill proposal and in other ways. After the debate was held, the committee voted mostly, 5 for and 3 against the position to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. One, a proposal for a law on textbooks for elementary and high school is accepted. Two, all views, proposals and opinions presented in the debate, will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44413	The Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities, gender equality, legislation. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44414	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, State Secretary and Associates. If we've been dealing with a law here in the Parliament for the past three years, then we've been dealing with the Bookbooks Act. We passed the law, i.e. You brought it in from most, 2006 and then you changed it three times. Once that same year in 2006, then somewhere in December of last year, then in the 7th month. This year. When the law was passed in 2006 and this happened again in each of these three amendments to the law, the government and the ministry promised us fewer books, cheaper books and easier bags. Unfortunately, as SDPs, we warned on the occasion of all four debates. After every ministry deal with this law and after every change we had more books, harder bags and more expensive books. Now, that same ministry lineup, because it's the same, again proposes a law that promises more cheap books, fewer books and easier bags. Experience, but also the study of this bill says that this will never happen again, and since we from the SDP after 4 attempts have no valid reason to believe now that there are enough and willful and capacity in the fifth attempt in the same people in the ministry who have proposed the past 4 solutions that have proved unsuccessful, we in the SDP will not support this bill. Allow me honored colleagues and colleagues to introduce a few principle notes. It is inadmissible from the government and from the ministry that at the time of the draft bill, as many as two laws were violated. It is the Law on the right to access information which obliges the applicant to conduct a public debate on draft laws as well as the Law on the Protection of Competition under which it is an obligation for applicants to seek the opinion of the Board of the Competition Protection Agency on the draft draft draft law. It is not only about the fundamental violation of the law that this House has passed and which we consider to be a disgrace, that we must warn the Government at all as representatives, but that these disrespects by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports have led us today to this law of ours by many interested parties. We personally got into the club, I think four petitions of teachers, two memos, one of the community of publishers, one of the small publishers and a number of individual remarks, and then it finally resulted in an unquality proposal which then leaves many open questions. The second principled remark that I want to highlight on behalf of the SDP club is the fact that education is particularly devastating to do things backwards and in this same wrong way to bring politics because it is a very large system that includes very many people. And that's how we keep doing the backwards education, that's how we do it. First, you passed the Law on textbooks that we said at first were constantly changing, then you passed pedagogical standards which, by the way, we do not apply at all this Parliament as the obligation received a report on the implementation of pedagogical standards, or their implementation as well as the implementation of annual plans. After that, we passed the basic Education Act, and now we have the Law on textbooks again, and all this time, although the Working Group has been formed since 2006, the only really important document, which is the national girlculum that determines what is being taught and what is the content basis for each textbook, we have not adopted this only important document. The logic of the system and good education policy would be that we first passed the basic law, and then somehow parallel and curricula and standards, and then the Law on textbooks and all other implementing regulations. This is how we start again from the consequences, because the textbooks are really the main consequence of the curricula and, of course, if we don't have a basic document, and we don't have, we're not going to solve again the problems that we have that nobody is challenging and that we really need to solve. Because in the learning area of a colleague and a colleague, we really have a lot of problems. And we in the SDP strongly advocate that these problems are indeed solved, because we are fully convinced that the existing chaos with textbooks is the most harmful to children, and their parents are greatly affected. We've heard here today about how we have too many books and how expensive they are. We of the SDP can mostly agree with these poor women. But what we haven't heard is how did this problem occur, and who is responsible for this situation? Dear colleagues and colleagues, not a single book, so let me put it this way, and those overnumbered didn't fall to our schools from Mars. Each book came to school because the school’s approval was given by the ministry. Each and too high a price of the school's book had indirect support from the ministry, as the book ministry included in the catalogue of approved textbooks with selected retail prices. And quite tragically in recent years when the state bought books and those who needed it and those who really didn't need it, the ministry representatives, specifically the secretary of state, even with publishers and agreed on the price of textbooks. It is therefore very clear to us in the SDP where the responsibility for the existing situation lies. And for this reason, we simply don't believe that this same lineup from the ministry will find out, be able and really want to sort out this area differently. I can tell you, these ministry representatives were the laws. Yes, that was the law. However, these laws were so because the ministry's representatives proposed, and here the HDZ majority supported. We have rebelled against any such law, and we have not supported any such law so far. And one random note. We have warehouses filled with publishers originally from the states ordered, and then from the parents of unpurchased books. Perhaps that picture of the crowded book warehouses is the best indicator or the best consequence of the previously under-developed and thus the bad policies of this government. Two principles and from the educational public generally accepted remarks that are truly and soundly reasonable for all those who know better about the system of education. First of all, nothing in education has yet to improve, resolve any or any administrative restrictions. Such attempts by education policy have only caused additional problems in schools. Therefore, for us in the SDP, it is completely unclear why the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports continue to insist against all experience so far at the administrative limits that this law is abounding. Second. It is not always optimal in this particular law that this is the most recent case in Article 1(3) that the same solutions respond to the situation, for example in the 1st grade of primary school where we have very young children and, for example, in the third grade of secondary vocational school where the requirements of the programme are significantly different. Of course, the law of this type cannot respond to all these finesse, but it must show an elementary understanding and concrete flexibility for all these particularities. Now I'm going to make some of the biggest concrete remarks on this bill, and our MPs and MPs in their individual debates will further elaborate some of the details. The first major remark concerns the choice of textbooks in schools. With this bill, teachers will definitely not have the option of choosing the textbook to work with. No matter what you try to say about it now, the fact remains that teachers will not be able to choose the textbook with which they will work. Dear colleagues and colleagues of teachers' autonomy in teaching one of the fundamental values in education as such we have written in our basic Law on Education and Education. According to the procedure proposed by this law, the choice of teachers comes down to the advisory referendum. It's quite possible in practice, not only theoretically that in the end the teacher must work on some third 50 limes cheaper textbook than the one he chose, and let's say that someone else chose his... Both colleagues and colleagues are not only stupid, but the opposite is against our best but also European educational practices. By the way, the advent of teacher autonomy in the choice of textbooks is the reopening of the door to mass corruption, because our practice is already well-known cases when, because of these or those interests, directors and very often older teachers from the activ are pressuring those of the newer or younger teachers. Our second major remark concerns the abolition of expert committees of the ministry that have so far been tasked with professionally checking and reviewing textbooks. According to the new proposal, this professional review job is being moved to the Education and Education Agency, or the Professional Education Agency. However, as it is a administrative process that must end with a decision signed by the minister, we consider it necessary to review the textbooks back into the ministry. Of course, the ministry also takes responsibility for the books found in schools. It is in the commissions that have not been in the laws so far had a clear and precise mandate and a detour, we see also the causes of many current problems with textbooks. Therefore, we of the SDP propose and strongly advocate, in addition to bringing the commission back to the ministry, to give them clearer and more detailed mandates. For example, why not give the ministry's committees the authority to assess the better, between two of what we call cloned textbooks. By doing so, and by some other powers, we would reduce the number of textbooks to some reasonable measure, and we would not do so to legal constraints but to qualitative assessments. Our third major observation refers to the final criterion of selecting textbooks that actually exist in deciding whether a textbook will eventually be found in the catalogue of selected textbooks, and thus also in schools. According to the ministry's proposal, this basic and final criterion is the price. The cost of a colleague and colleagues simply cannot be a guarantee of quality and criteria in such an important area. We've had 10% representation and 10% election criteria so far, and it didn't show up as good because that filter went through and what it needed and what it wasn't supposed to go through at school. By accepting this proposal from the ministry, we may find that a minimum price difference disqualifies a better quality textbook. We're talking about several kunas or amounts even less than one kuna. The introduction of the price as the only final criterion, not only of quality, originality, methodical approach, technical equipment and other parameters, means the complete banalization of not only textbooks as not only the most important educational means and as the original Croatian intellectual product, but also of all schools and all participants in it. And finally, the principle question. Can the state also limit the competition to what extent the price for a product for which it is neither a client nor a buyer? Our fourth observation refers to the limitation of two parallel textbooks. On the side that now two represents an alternative, not a choice. We don't think it's good to cut the standards we've reached. As the almost certain consequence of this proposal we'll have a duo... in the publishing of school textbooks, and this criterion combined with the minimum price criterion will almost certainly throw out small and specialized publishers who have built their visibility and thus their specific quality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And about that, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think we are all aware that the most creative and most innovative content and products those who draw forward are long-term significant progress. They hardly ever have mass acceptance, so neither representation nor representation are generally more expensive. The same goes for textbooks. In this regard, we ask the promoters to think again about whether they want to keep solutions that go for mass and minimally lower prices, while at the same time slowing down the progress and development of educational activity. And our last fifth big remark is about the projected four-year sustainability of textbooks during which the selected textbooks cannot be changed and followed by a review of the textbooks. First, about the inability to change one selected textbook over four years. What if during the first year of application the teachers of the institution that the textbook is not good, that it does not correspond optimally to a plan and program or curriculum that we do not have or that there are errors. The ministry's representatives can now say this will not happen because the reviews will pass, but this has been happening to us so far. About the audit, more. So far, we have not had any restrictions on use for four years, and if we want to have the sustainability of textbooks and ultimately allow the textbooks to be inherited, I think it would be smarter to devote a lot of time to the initial review and check the textbooks before they get the approval to use in schools than to break it mainly through parental wallets administratively restricting the use of four years after which the new books actually follow. And in conclusion, as I said at the beginning of the SDP club, it will not support the adoption of this bill. We consider the representatives of this government responsible for the current state and thus this government and this ministry in our eyes has lost every credibility that can really change the state we're all crying over, a situation that really needs a quick action but an action that is thoughtful and professionally founded. And at the very end, years of tampering, insufficiently designed state policies towards textbooks, meeting the populist pre-election criteria, and not the professional criteria, have led us to the panic reaction situation today. The problem becomes what the problem is not or should not be and the law and state policy comes down exclusively to commercial and market regulation. There is no dictionary about the quality of the textbooks in the law. All the things we've discussed in the past about experimental application, check the textbooks as its evaluation will obviously remain buried here in our archives. Discussions on textbooks of new quality have been suppressed between interest in the wave of private pockets and here I would like to say that quality textbooks come with quality curricula, transparent reviewing as well as education of teachers and teachers and not any administrative restrictions. Because of all this, as well as because the ministry is constantly and spiritually working on further normisation of the already hypernormised process without at the same time normising the only thing that really needs to be normised and these are the objectives, outcomes and competences in the education system, we in the SDP have no illusions that this law will bring some quality changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44415	Thank you. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44416	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Let me briefly refer to what Commissioner Lugaric said on behalf of the SDP club. First of all, it begins with the fact that several times the law was changed and we wanted to do this matter better, and all the MPs in this House were involved. I must remind myself that we have adopted a number of amendments submitted by the esteemed Lugarić and also by MP Flego. Therefore, it may have been a little unusual to hear certain comments, but such corrections were in a way that these amendments agreed on by the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, on their proposal and in agreement with the other members of the Committee, it was also accepted. I suppose the esteemed Mrs Lugaric will say that what I said is not true but I call on her to review the phonograms of all meetings of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture and to disprove or confirm what I said. Furthermore, I here, respected Mrs Lugaric, have before me the Law on the right to access information. I will give you the text of this law that this House of the High has brought, so show me a sentence saying that the Proposer is obliged to present a proposal or draft bill for a public debate. So I'm going to pray exactly where it says it, what article and what sentence it is. Furthermore, by proposing this law we passed, in fact sent an inquiry to the Public Procurement Office at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Likewise, on your proposals made on the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, we have also addressed one question to the Competition Protection Agency, which will give us an answer to this question and is related to the fact that you have problems with the right to call a public competition along the way that many experts in our professional public have advocated. And finally, if you'd like, we've also asked the judges of the Constitutional Court and the experts on constitutional law whether we did counter-constitutionally by proposing a public tender. So, we have prepared all of this well by consulting and some answers, of course, and we will get concrete when it comes to the Agency for Protection against Competition. Furthermore, when I was listening and I had a chance to talk to publishers who were of course interested in this issue, then I was at one point thinking that I was listening to one of the publishers just before the pay phone. So the choice of textbooks in schools when we talk about their own autonomy is not slow. We have said very clearly here that teachers are the ones who choose textbooks to work on, just as they have been so far. And every textbook based on that choice by teachers of their autonomous right to do so gets more than 10% of the textbook enters the narrow choice. Next step. So we made sure that all the quality textbooks by the teachers were chosen. And then after that, we'll call a public tender and those two textbooks that are most favourable with prices, and we've already found that they're very good quality, some of them are going to be in a certain school, and that's one textbook in one class in the whole school to make it possible to inherit what we've all advocated, so that we don't have a situation to exchange it between how many schools, I don't know what Ledinas, etc. Furthermore, when we talk about expert committees, of course the expert commissions have worked so far, it will also work in the future. In what way, so that agencies that are our professional institutions can hire external members, Methodists, experts from our universities etc. And finally, we advocate that textbooks can be inherited, that they last four years. Don't, please, underestimate our teachers that they won't be able to make a choice after a year of making a choice to find out how they chose wrong. So let's not underestimate our teachers like that. So, we think that our teachers at the time when they need to make a decision, will consult all those proposed textbooks and make the best choice for themselves, agree with their colleagues who teach the same class class and choose that textbook and achieve the best results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44417	Correction, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44418	It's an incorrect assumption that you accepted my amendments to the last amendments to the law. You accepted the amendments of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which was prepared by the working group of our committees who made two HDZ deputies and I together with them to pass the law in the House at all, because we were a complete committee against the law. With regard to the right to access information, Article 20(2), the bodies of the public authority whose jurisdiction and drawing up draft laws and sublegislative acts, that is you, the Ministry, are obliged to publish drafts of these acts and to allow the authorising officer to be made known within the provisional time limit. Drafts, not suggestions. So that's what it's all about. And around the Constitutional Court, constitutional judges are not allowed to show themselves about it in that way that you said because it's... behavior. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44419	HDZ representative club, Mr Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, State Secretary, Associates. Ms. Representatives, gentlemen of the Parliament. These discussions also show how dynamic this is and how much interest we are in the Croatian Parliament, as well as the Croatian public. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I must say that we support it to be a lighter student bag, a reduced number of textbooks and additional curricula, then a lower price of textbooks, as well as the possibility of using textbooks for many years. That is one good goal, and I believe that the proposer has offered certain solutions. And our discussion on the board, which was very complex and you heard the report, has shown that there are different views on certain issues or attempts to somehow improve certain solutions. In this first reading, it should be well considered and said. And how current the training problem in Croatian society is the fact that only this year we have changed the law several times, and we see that even in the election campaign, some presidential candidates use this problem to point out that they have done something important, and they do not notice that chaos has been left behind, and on the other hand they even think the textbooks are free of charge. Gentlemen, for once in this House of Commons, there are no free textbooks, only depends on who pays, whether they pay taxpayers from a state register or parents from their own pocket. That's the facts. We need to enable Croatian citizens here to regain awareness of the problem we are dealing with, and on the other hand, I have brought one book from the methodology, and the methodology is science about teaching a scientific subject and when such items are translated into the experience of textbooks, then in Croatia we must also ensure the European level of knowledge that our students will receive. I deliberately referred to that public perception to see how hard it is to do this law, but we have to bring it to me because it can simply be done only in this House of Commons. I would like to commend, as stated in Article 2, it is good for the law to describe the basic concepts. That's very good, because then we know what we're talking about. Let's say, like the textbook standard we expect the minister to bring within a month. Which is a textbook, which is an additional teaching tool, it's all described, now I don't have time to read all that. Workbook or traineeship, collection of tasks, geographical atlas, historical atlas, art map, teaching aid, publisher, national curricula. Here are all the terms that are well written here. I think when it comes to education it would be good in other laws that write down those terms that we can know exactly what it's about. What I'm saying is that when it comes to the national curricula in question, there's been a lot of confusion here because some of them have said that we don't have the national curricula in question, as you mention. But it is in the making, and the transitional and final provisions have said nicely that until there is a national and subject curricula to use the curricula which is existing. And that's understandable. ... As far as the curricula is concerned, here is the vice president asking me, Professor Katičić, who gave an interpretation on behalf of the Council for the Croatian Standard Language Standard, said if the curiculum is already used then that in Croatian it can be used as a curicula because it is the same as metal metal or museum and the Croatian word would be a guide or a curricula or otherwise, but for now in Croatia even more openly as the exact term for a total educational course in Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I have accepted the opinion of the language experts that the same ministry has formed and I use the curicula expression because the international term curicula we also understand what it is, but I think it is better to use what is closer to Croatian expression. And maybe this is an opportunity, so I invite everyone who understands this problem to cook a word that would really be just Croatian. ... We will, Vice President. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I want to point out two more facts here, which are very important for the growth of Croatian education, which is the issue of the Croatian national guide, or curricula. And why, because we are in progress, so we need to be very open to this issue. And why am I bringing that up? For one basic reason, because the basic product that produces this problem is a national curricula or manual, so also textbooks as important material, then drafts of classes, drafts of work, and also curricula policy triggers independent external evaluation and instruction, i.e. mastering plans. So that's one remarkable matter. We mustn't stick our heads in the sand but we must be open to it and deal with it and go towards that whole with a series of burdens that we carry. It's important here to say another fact in the field of science. Just a few months ago, a new area was included and this interdisciplinary area where education was included. We also consider this a major step towards Croatian science, but also Croatian education policies implemented by the ministry, and I think we have now obtained that the science already, which is already founded in Croatia, is simply developing even faster and even better, so I believe that there will be such doctoral studies. And here's what the ministry does and works, and that's why we have to be patient, because let's be aware of it until the other day we didn't have anything. Also, what I want to do in my debate is to touch certain problems, which was what was on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. We have really touched a number of questions here, and it seems to me that some of us must be conscious. This is the first reading, and I don't think we should shut up some of the questions that were said there, so I'm going to repeat them here how many textbooks per class. Here in one procedure in the first and second circles would be two, but everyone assures us that out of two you have an alternative as Mrs. Lugaric says, and that competition could start at three. But if three could, but that's a matter to consider the ministry, let's see, that's a lot to discuss and introduce, so one dynamism in that. And then it could be, given that the textbooks will last four years, the textbooks could be evaluated every year, because it is not said that within those three chosen for four years, they will have the same position over and over again. Because science and profession are just teaching us that there can be certain changes if those who perfect and follow the textbook have certain observations, and one of the great followers is our teachers, is that they work with these textbooks. There are some more questions. One of the key questions is the choice of textbooks. Who? We can't keep our mouths shut again. The greatest democracy is when it is chosen by a teacher, but Croatia has had that experience and it seems to me that if it chooses a teaching council, or at school level, it is also not bad. But we have to tell those facts. Maybe in one of Italy he can choose teachers, in our terms we've tried one variant, maybe this one's good enough to choose a school. Then in another way, in one Croatian way, it will be done differently. But I want to warn, teachers also choose, also just as Article 15(3) and paragraph 5 speak. I just want to say because we were really discussing it on the board. There were very many words about it, there were different views that stand individually. But here as a whole, so teachers will participate, and teachers should plan the overall process at school so that this decision is logical. Furthermore, I have seen what appears to be a question, and what this legislative proposal may not have been sufficiently incorporated is a question of quality. Quality, it comes out of the teaching plan and program of the textbook standard, i.e.... It's a curricula, which makes sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a derivative, therefore, but it seems to us that there may be space there, so as in Article 7, 8, it may be possible to look further from all of our discussions on whether this system can be slightly improved. It can also be solved with a textbook standard, and it is expected to be resolved. There are some more questions, yes, about the reviews. So, this demand for the duration of the textbook for four years, the old way that we know about textbook evaluations I think should be a little bit strengthened and that the issue of reviews given that it's a professional scientific discipline, now it's quite clear it might have to be a little bit sharpened, because it still needs to be written exactly in which something is not good, in which, on which page, as well as what. So, the question of these committees, so what has the ministry been doing so far? It seems to me that there's this space at least in the debates we saw those questions standing. Yeah, it's a price question. That's also a lot to talk about, and in the first wave, everyone thought the price would be one criterion. It seems to me that in the end she is when she is of those two, or three, determined. But in the first round, it's not the price, it's the whole second set that matters. But the price question should not be the only criterion, but this raises the question if there are only two textbooks, the price can be excluded from that textbook chosen at 70% in all Croatia. So, out of those two, one can have 70%, the other can have 30% and this one can lose. So, which are irrefutable. The election found him to be better quality. Now maybe there's room for us to come up with something better because here's the problem with everyone. Oh, no? Thus, it seems to me that there may be another solution between these two readings, that is, to the second reading. Here, there are some other objections. One that's also heard. I see that's what others say, and that's that there are large quantities of textbooks on the storybook's lager. Thus, it may be possible to use this textbook material or textbooks for the next school year, as it is a pity that a national fortune in this regard is to fail. This seems both objective and likely in talking to those who have these textbooks, it should be resolved. Here, I believe that a great effort has been made, that one problem that has come to a very low branch on which the Croatian public is very sensitive is getting forms of serious access and we expect that this material will be improved when we can adopt it. The Croatian Democratic Community Club in this regard supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44421	Who left us in the desert on that lager? Immaculate property. It's hard to guess who it is. No heredita siacens? Listen, listen. This is a highly specialized debate. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44422	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. We have before us a proposal for a legal act that, in its explanation, and also with the announcements, has solved a whole series of open problems, but here we simply cannot believe that it is possible, but by what it says. In fact, the practice has shown that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the past few years has not had a consistent approach to solving a whole series of accumulated problems, even though the hyperproduction of regulations created one situation in which we are not sure that one problem was approached by a solution closer than it was to 4 or 5 years ago. It may sound so ugly, it may be too harsh, but the fact that we have been hearing for several years that the level of laws, or sublegal acts related to textbooks themselves, will lead to the discharging of textbooks, to the cost of books, to the increase of quality, and to the end of corruption that exists in that space. So what do we have now? We have a whole set of these problems again, so the books are still heavy and too heavy, there's been an inflation of textbooks, inflation of the number of textbooks and teaching aids that are mandatory. Furthermore, we got an unequal quality of different textbooks from the same subjects. Apparently, there was a plagiarization of part of the textbook. Prices have risen to a level that this year has shown exactly what this means when the price rests entirely on the family budget and corruption is still present. Perhaps two sessions ago, and it was I who asked the prime minister's question whether the government was going to deal with these problems, and the answer was yes. In that sense, the promoter keeps his promise, and he comes with one solution before the end of the year, but the HNS club cannot support him. Why? We only in 2009 led the maneuvers to multiple material damages, which led to the state, which directly to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, or parents. First, if we remember, we ordered from the publisher a specific amount of books according to the choice carried out by school commissions, or teachers themselves. And half of that work, and after the signature of the memo, the government decided that anti-recession measures would begin right in the area of financing the purchase of school textbooks. In the meantime, children of old books returned to school and were ready to return them at the beginning of the new school year, and it happened to us that more than half of the books already in circulation were certainly not exchanged, but were dumped, and half of the books ordered by publishers remained at the warehouse. Hundreds of millions of kunas are mentioned. Hundreds of millions of kunas worth. Only this maneuver that such decisions were made at the wrong time cost people living, working, and making several hundred million kunas. And that no one else's hair fell off their heads. That's when you work with someone else's money, then that's how it can be. What is now being proposed again? I'd say on one impressive trail, under the impression of those pictures that we've all seen in newspapers and television, when parents on lawns, share textbooks on the road, when huge lines are in front of bookstores, when the bookstores are late in delivering books, because the publishers aren't able to deliver on time, I personally had the opportunity to buy textbooks and teaching aids for two primary school students, and I've defined myself as a difficult variant, which is that I go from a bookstore to a bookstore belonging to a single publisher, because it was the only way at that time, and that's August of the month, to even get to the books. So, under these impressions we suddenly put our feet in the door and say, "It won't be like that anymore, now we're going all the way from the beginning." Just because these books are on the lager doesn't matter at all, and it's about a million books. Just because we threw away a lot of money doesn't matter. Now let's go over it again. How's that? The moment the procedure for selecting textbooks for the next school year has already begun. What's going to happen to us again? On the one hand, it is said that the basis for making quality textbooks and for choosing quality textbooks is to create a textbook standard. And we know very well that training standards come from two curriculas. And that's national and relevant. Neither one of them is finished. What happens to us now? Now we will select again textbooks that are not based on these regulations that are necessary to shape the textbooks. What's the catch? While there are no two curriculas and a textbook standard, textbooks can change every year as they come to mind. Take a good look at what textbook editions look like, year after year with the same publisher, with the same authors, where only one teaching unit, adds or subtracts or adds one of the four authors and books no longer applies. Therefore, if we want to avoid it. ... No, but first we have to solve the question of the textbook standard, along with the curricula, and then we'll know exactly what the textbooks that have been able to hold for four years look like. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Based on a law like this that the notes cannot be adopted by the end of the year, because this is the first reading, so only in January can it be adopted. It's only after January that we can go into further operations, so how do we plan to start the next school year? Again in chaos. Is it wise to go like that? Or it's better to round up this whole process in time, relying on institutions that are able to do it, and I'm saying the agencies aren't. We know very well how the agencies are staffed, who sits in the agencies, and how much they are even able to handle the tasks that the law intends to do to them. They are not able to, among other things, because we know that the good part of these people is in conflict of interest when it comes to writing textbooks. A good part of these people who will participate in this process because agencies can't all, it's known exactly who might be involved in this process. Therefore, whether it is now necessary to break over the knee at this time of year, when everything must be known to begin the next one properly and to select the textbooks in time, go with a solution that must be in force immediately. The colleagues have already said, by lowering the number of textbooks to 2 can happen to create a duopoly, but also a monopoly. No one says that one publisher will be exclusively bound to one edition of the book. Both two textbooks selected may be from the same publisher. What's wrong with that? Well, that's crazy, that's exactly what we're up against, and that's monopolization on the market. It's the opposite of freedom of competition, Mr. Minister. Well, the state provides such regulations with space for the monopoly, then it's not good with the state or its policy, exactly the opposite. And here's my colleague Shetic says 2 is not an alternative, 3 is competition, but there should be no 8 of them, of course. Therefore, it would be good if we were already in a situation where we finally have to solve this issue in a way that has at least held water for 4 years, to think carefully until the second reading whether in some elements of the implementation of this law we should go urgently or should go so that things are settled as they go in order. So, girlsulumi, learning standard, making suggestions textbooks, competitions, selection, press, realization. If we're able to do it for the next school year, I'm a plane with four propellers. Well, I'm not sure that's why I'm saying that, which is why I'm saying that the HNS club doesn't believe in the ability of the team that's done what we've got so far can't support the law in the first reading, but we're keeping you figurines to do everything you can until the second reading to just talk us out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44423	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44424	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you can't say it like that by your colleague Beus, and it's incorrect that the agencies aren't professionally teamed. Well, you can't do that about people who are class counselors there, people who are there with long-term, you know, educational experience. And all the chosen ones in the contest, buddy. Can't you become a counselor just like me, I'm applying for a counselor. It's primarily irresponsible to say in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44425	Minister Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, you don't need to be a doctor of science to realize that these issues of yours are just in support of what we want to get rid of. I can't understand that you're mixing the thesis from memoranda to contract, baratates with millions of printed books, asking who's to blame for hundreds of millions that can't be determined at all at this point whether it's true or not, and that's exactly what the publishers draw as arguments out, and while out of 740 million kuna they asked the state to pay textbooks for this year, they agreed to 450 million. What does that 300 million mean? Is that their loss? Yeah, well, their profit is probably cleaning it up, too. I can't believe you're up for it when you say that the best books that go into the last round will be chosen at the price and by the official standard, which means that all these textbooks will have to be printed, written, printed in the same way in the future. Therefore, the price of the press can be minimally different. It's just a matter of profit going to that price up there, is it enough 25%, 30%, 50% deal, but not 100, not 150 or 200. True, our citizens are not obliged to accumulate and pay such prices, i.e. to accumulate profits without foundation. Nor is the state obliged to pay someone such enormous profits. The textbook's market is one stable market that has always sold practically the same amount of books for years. God forbid they sell more, so our natal policy is better and better, and it would be good if that were the case. So when you say that you're going to be in a position where I don't know 2 or 3 textbooks that are selected in 10% of the best, 2 textbooks in that class are from the same publisher. Yeah, well, what's wrong with that? It means they're the best, two editions. To regulate the question of plagiarism and copying is not a question of this law, so there are other laws. Who's suing? No one, no one. It is with these changes each year that each article or individual picture in a textbook will in this way come to an end that each textbook is declared new and withdraws the previous one from use and can practically not be inherited. I don't understand why you're turning the full intensity of this law that introduces order right into that mess that used to be? And I'll tell you one sentence that isn't my original one, it's said by the Prime Minister, but I'll tell you, I'm not Dragan Primorac, and I don't want to be Dragan Primorac. And that's why the laws that are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are being changed, and precisely with the intensification of order. So when we talk about the National Girlcullum, only I don't have time, I don't want to keep you here too much, it's too complex a question to tie him to this Bookbook Act. This issue changes the approach from the foundation, defines some things, and this is not brought forward in a hurry. We have a draft, but we do not let it out because if we let it out, there will be an even bigger earthquake in primary and secondary education until this whole policy is thought-out and in line with national educational standards, with a curricula or curricula that languages are still being discussed as to what is the right word for further use in the Croatian language, to the Croatian qualification framework, to the reform of curricula and programs in vocational schools. If those three processes go separate, we didn't do anything. We've made an even bigger earthquake. Therefore, curuculum or curricula, together with curricula and vocational school programmes, must be harmonised and harmonised with the Croatian qualification framework, which is absolutely a matter for us when we enter the European Union. And that's what you do now. Yesterday she was a session of the government's Commission for the Construction of the National Qualifications Framework and we have just reached these conclusions to unite those groups that work individually. It's something to end in 2012. Until then, we can't wait with the law, and this law isn't a problem with making and making and printing and printing or whatever you want new books and new textbooks. Of course, it is not dynamic that every year certain pages or readings that are used in primary or secondary schools must be changed. So the editions at universities in each class experience a review of printing every few years. That's a fact. So, let's accumulate the experience, the comments that need to be changed, the French experience says that books are revised every 4 years. Well, I don't know why you couldn't do that in Croatia. And there's no problem there. There are countries in the European Union that have one single textbook. It's printed in a national printing press like the People's Journal or the money printers. And no comment. It's hard-core and it's inherited. We're not going after the team. A transitional period. Well, of course we'll do a transitional period. So we won't throw away the books that are printed and that are in the warehouses. They're going into procedure. If these textbooks are selected, they can be used next school year, but the next tour will be printed technically and according to standards as prescribed by the teaching standard. Here, thank you very much. I won't keep you any longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44427	Correction by Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44428	I'd dispute a few of your allegations. First of all, this last one. You've already had a standard that prescribed that textbooks must be printed with the same technical quality, the same type of paper. That wasn't the case until now. You didn't move your finger that way, but you allowed these publishing tricks that you're now trying to justify, which is adding or subtracting one teaching unit. This does not happen as easily in high school or elementary school as in a study where it is scientifically monitored through a particular college. These things change a lot faster than in history, for example. Therefore, if you had taken care of it as a ministry for the past few years according to existing regulations, we would have trusted you much more. And now you can talk as much as you want not to be Dragan Primorac, so of course you're not, but you were his deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44429	SDSS representative club Mr. Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. He's losing his word. And Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, National Minority Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44430	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary, the Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. The National Minority Club will certainly support this pompously announced law, which will indeed achieve all the goals that we have wanted in recent years and I really want the ministry to succeed in this. Because let's not forget that every time we announced that we were going to improve the quality of the textbook, that every time we were going to facilitate the student's bag, we were giving when we talked about how many textbooks 4, 6 etc. For one subject. We said we shouldn't limit freedom of choice and teaching. But now we're changing everything again. It's good if I say we're going to achieve our goals, but I warn that perhaps we should wait for the national curricula of the curricula in question to be adopted and according to standards. But if I understand correctly that this is not going so well, although he has been preparing for a long time, does it mean that after 4 years we will be forced to change textbooks again, at least then we finally get to those curriculas or curicula whatever they call them and that we will finally make textbooks the way we need them. Maybe it would be good, because the board also talked that even a textbook would mean a lot at the moment when our market should be stabilised and ultimately made a cheaper textbook. But I will now, since all the problems here in this way have already been discussed, remain on the issue of us minorities. I will warn of Article 6 where textbooks and textbooks are discussed in languages and the letter of national minorities. We must not forget that this is a constitutional category, that is, by virtue of the Constitutional Law of the Minority, or members of national minorities have the right to education in the languages of national minorities. So far, this has been dealt with by law, sublaws, or rules only being resolved, and the work of the expert commission for textbooks has been organised closer. I think that it should still remain a category defined by law, because then minority MPs have opportunities to influence the law itself, while the lower acts unfortunately do not. We still don't have a day today, and for a few years we've been working out the question of minority textbooks. The question of minority textbooks is not fully resolved. I know the ministry has invested a lot of resources both in translation and in teaching. But it happened to us this year that individual minority textbooks were three hundred percent more expensive than the same reader for the same class, which is obviously wrong, because we have all the time declared that minority education must not be more expensive than normal education, or for parents, it must not be more expensive than educations that are normally in their native, or majority language. So we appeal that it be arranged until the second reading of the law. Furthermore, a number of major problems in Article 8(7) have been attempted to define that imports of textbooks and additional funds for education from the country of origin, that the request may be submitted by the publisher, i.e. the roof association. Unfortunately, even here, we won't be able to solve it because exactly three minorities have a publisher and have a roof organization. All others unfortunately do not have roof organizations or have four, five roof organizations and it is very difficult to define who will then be on behalf of them who will be able to submit the request. It might be wise to consider whether it is a guidance counselor for minority education or perhaps in some way to define not a roof association but an association that has the highest membership. Namely, the publisher has practically a Serb minority, an Italian minority and a Czech minority. They also have a roof association, meaning their alliance, union, or education has a Serb minority. Unlike other minorities, there are two, three roof associations that do not specifically define the Roma minority, although it will not even be able to order textbooks from the country of origin because it is not there but when it will be necessary to define some textbooks will certainly not be able to solve it at the level of the roof association. These are the meanings of our observations regarding minority textbooks. It should continue to provide for co-financing for minority textbooks although I say the main part has been translated and prepared during these two years where the ministry has been practically engaged in both funding and publishing but I say another part remains unresolved. And on the other hand, I say they've gotten out of control and prices. Otherwise I say I really join those who think that the price should not be the only criterion for selecting textbooks, to try to design a model exactly how to first choose quality or quality combination, oscillating perhaps a certain price from which it can go and that the textbook and the quality would have a chance to pass because in this way I think that if at least two factors, quality and price certainly we will offer a better textbook because in this way there is really a possibility that the best textbook that perhaps truly cannot adapt to the given price can come out of use. Normally, we don't mind the choice of books or textbooks themselves to work on a level of activity, on a council level, because ultimately they're teachers, they're teachers, they're the active ones. So let's really choose the best because we really had absurd situations, six classes, six different textbooks for one and the same subject. So I think we've exceeded every measure of free choice, that we've really led to anarchy in that choice. Therefore, it would really be good if we could really limit it. I support a part of the remarks that my colleague Lugaric had, but I think it will certainly come out of this debate that we in the Club of National Minorities will be able to support, but I say I would certainly like to draw attention to these two articles that are related to the textbooks of national minorities, the more that is constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44431	Thank you. And the club of representatives of HSS Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44432	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. The law on textbooks for elementary and high school has been exposed to many changes since 2001. All these changes affected the continuous increase and number of textbooks and the number of additional teaching tools but also the prices that have been tripled in some cases. I'm sure you don't need to forget. In fact, when we discuss school textbooks, there should be a picture of all those parents waiting in line for days, and very often there would be no book they came for. We also need to remember those who have traveled hundreds of miles in search of school books. Let us also remember the beginning of the school year of prolonging, so until October 1st because the students did not have or could have textbooks in time. In the HSS, we expect that this law will significantly change the current situation and that there will no longer be a lack of textbooks besides so many authors and publishers, that there will be no lines in the bookstores and we expect that free elementary school will never again be as expensive as it is now. The selection, distribution and purchase of textbooks have become unsustainable, primarily due to the printing of a large number of textbooks and additional teaching funds either from the state budget or from the parental pockets. The free choice of textbooks and their ability to change them every school year, the fact that textbooks were largely working and could not be inherited as well as the fact that expert committees authorised under the provisions of the positive law were able to approve textbooks and additional teaching tools for school use but without mechanisms that would allow for accepted textbooks and additional teaching tools that would assess the poor or unnecessary could refuse additional shortcomings of a valid law that would lead to incredible problems at the beginning of each school year. Also, further bags of students from year to year have become increasingly more difficult as a large number of additional teaching tools have been offered whose use has not been regulated. Sometimes the educational resources were not even used in the teaching process precisely because of their large number, which often caused parental disfavor. Of course, such legal uncertainty has brought great profits to publishers and textbook authors, and it is certain that they will also resist this new bill. The new law that is before us should correct these shortcomings but also prevent them from repeating. In particular, limiting the use of textbooks and additional teaching tools should not only lead to significant savings but also contribute to the use of the best-quality textbooks. In schools, because of the modernisation of the teaching process and the entry of new technology, textbooks and additional educational means become only one of the sources of knowledge, their number needs to be limited to what this law does. This law simplifies the distribution of textbooks that have been a significant problem so far, especially in large schools, and thus will save certain resources. The new law provides that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport and the Agency for Education and Education as a roof organisation of educational activities determine and control all relevant factors related to textbooks, leading to a reduction of the problems that have been present so far in a large number but also to improve the quality of work. We support the provisions to apply a textbook for a particular teaching class by which all students work even though we respect the fact that a teacher will be forced to work with a textbook that he may not be satisfied with. Also, the textbook and the additional teaching tool have been in use for four years and the textbooks will not be working. Possible remarks that teachers and teachers are deprived of choice when selecting textbooks because an active teacher selects one textbook for each course to work on at school for four years may have a specific justification. But the multiple benefits of these provisions, such as savings, the possibility of using used textbooks, and then the greater possibility of cooperating by means of joint planning, setting criteria for evaluation, preparation for teaching, exchange of ideas, and so on, speaks in favour of this new law. It is important to provide for the possibility of funding, i.e. co-financing of textbooks with resources from the state budget. The purchase of textbooks must be a great burden for parents, especially those with more children, but if we want to be a society of knowledge we must develop awareness that the textbook is the most valuable thing a parent can buy for his child. The new law due to the public procurement process, but also to a small number of textbooks and additional curricula, will ultimately lead to their lower price so that there will be no more such cost for parents, but with one small fence and thinking that this should not be an excuse for lack or decline of the quality of textbooks. However, we must say that the unclear deadlines in Article 17. In accordance with the provisions of this article, the publisher shall be obliged to print textbooks from the catalogue of mandatory textbooks by 1 August at the latest. Then by August 20th, there is time to deliver copies of the textbooks to the agencies, so if there is any mistake, the publisher is obliged to correct that error at his expense, but does not write within what time. The school year begins on the first Monday of September. I may not have really understood it, but as a parent, I am confused with these deadlines because it is very likely that in early September school textbooks will not be in bookshops. I am of the opinion, and yet this makes me remember the lines in front of the reruns each year, that school textbooks must be available to parents by August 1st to give parents enough time to get all the textbooks that their children need. It would also be good to place such a deadline as a legal provision. Attention should be paid to Article 21 of the Law. In particular, Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 provides for the possibility of the use and the assistance of teachers as recommended by teachers or teachers. However, paragraph 4 states that the teacher’s recommendation must not result in the obligation to use or purchase the recommended teaching aid. It is rather unclear what this article wants to achieve. These provisions of Article 21 can lead to half of the class, I speak theoretically, having a specific auxiliary teaching tool, and half of which does not have the same teaching tool which can again cause differences between students and complexity in the organisation of the teaching process. Furthermore, we do not want to believe, but there is also the possibility that a student may have or do not have an auxiliary teaching tool, it may also affect the grade itself. Given that this bill is in the first reading, we at the HSS Club will support it and refer it as such to the second reading, with a recommendation from the Proposer to consider the observations and proposals made and implement them in the text of the final draft law, if this would further improve, with great luck regarding the deadlines themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44433	Thank you. At 16,34, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to hear today that Minister Fuchs is not Primorac, because I hope that Fuchs will not privatise Dinamo as Primorac privatised Hajduk, and that Fuchs will implement the Sport Act, and let's say after all the deadlines, for more than ten months, bring the National Sport Programme and form the National Sports Council. 742 million kuna is a valuable cake at an annual level for which textbook publishers are harvested, according to a description of the situation. The government noticed the mistakes of the existing legal norm, starting with the fact that the Board of Teachers had no authority to remove some of the textbooks from the process or simply refused, resulting in a single item showing up seven, eight titles, in one school with two, three classes being two, three different textbooks per subject of cost and state and parents. Because of the very fact that the government has seen these mistakes I am happy and repeat one sentence from a book, that every idea, every new idea is always the daughter of history, the mother of the future, but also the prisoner of time. Three years ago, if I'm not mistaken, it was the first time we discussed a textbook model like this. I suggested that in my first reading, I offered and spoke and asked why Croatian textbooks could not be worth at least three years. The government is now proposing four. When I said at least three people looked at me strangely and said that I was old-fashioned and old-fashioned, that I didn't understand the speed of change in society and that a textbook worth three years would create retarded children in Croatia. They said teachers must have the freedom to choose the textbooks they will work on, and the freedom of choice has come down to the level of commission by publishers, however you wish. I asked why the number of titles per case wouldn't be limited to, say, three, because it's not clear to me that there can be 7 or 8 textbooks for the same subject, approved by the same commission or body, equally valued and good, afraid of what happened, which the government has now seen as a mistake. I don't normally understand the often mentioned professional terms or the legal ones, but also those around the kukula kuricula, so I'll look only at two by two essential provisions. The kukulele kuriculum is a problem whenever the topic of education is opened in Croatia. First I would like to confirm myself, Mr. Secretary of State, Article 6 and the definition of textbooks for children with special needs, because it is a textbook on Braille's letter, now finally under that definition incorporated into the law. So, Article 6 of definition, to find the bottom line, there's actually no bottom line, last sentence, textbook, extra class for children with special needs. Are those textbooks on Braille? It could be interpreted that way. So, again, we must believe in good faith and in order for the ministry under that term to include textbooks for blind children. You know my long-old proposal to get personal computers equipped with a speech unit and a Braille printer on those kids instead of textbooks, which is five times cheaper than textbooks, would cost less both the state and the parents. And secondly, I want to set aside a provision that speaks of the price as a criterion for selecting the most favourable offers for publishing textbooks. In principle, I agree with that. Because if we're for the price as the most favourable offer in all other elements of the competition then it has to be here. But that kind of approach requires something else, Mr. Secretary of State, and you can put that in one sentence by another reading. So this is good, but provided that in the competition, so when the state announces the competition are clearly the precise quality of textbooks in terms of material, paper, color, color, color use for printing, imported and all that makes for the quality of textbooks. Because if you don't have it strictly prescribed, then instead of the attached textbooks, you're going to get bired, glued. And when you open the burning textbook, it splits, and when it's tied to the thread, it doesn't happen. So, when he's besieged. This requires a good production of tender documentation with precise conditions and then it will really not be possible to get offers that meet the prescribed conditions, and that there are huge price differences because the cost of printing itself can vary 10 to 15%, and the printers will quickly negotiate to each other that they will not make too much competition as they do with the construction lobby and they do. So I suggest that this provision be considered the sole criterion of the lowest, most favourable offer. You are going with the permission to clearly specify the quality not only by the content, but also by the design, of each textbook in technical terms in order to avoid possible disputes or easy interpretation of those who will conduct the competitions. In particular, I mean both agencies that have a lot to do with this in the process of selecting textbooks. And of course, that's what I'm gonna end up with. If the law had written all that intent and desire that the minister here said today, then or with me, there would be no sign of doubt that this law would be better than the existing one. But it often happens to us that when ministers explain the wishes that or the goals they want to achieve by law, the content of the law itself is not in a relationship. This was the case with these former, or now old laws where all the promoters swore that the result of these laws would be the best in the interests of students, teachers, education systems, states, and parents. And now it was seen that they were still producing the opposite results of it. That's why one document is very valuable, and that's a phonogram. And I like to clean up the phonograms, and so do the phonograms of the statement and the explanation of Minister Primorac's discussion of textbooks and textbook standards and laws exist in my archive. Unfortunately, he's not a minister anymore, so there's not much I can do right now. But make sure what Minister Fuchs and you Mr. Secretary of State today say will soon be the subject of our dialogue in this assembly if the law does not receive the results announced here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44435	Thank you. One replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44436	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar noticed one thing well, so I'm going to refer to her a little bit, which is the quality of the textbook. And it's not just the quality of content, but the quality and design of textbooks. This really needs to be considered and found a way to introduce and standardized quality-making into the standard. Because the high price depends if only the price of printing is observed under the same parameters, under the same technological conditions, under the same quality of paper printing prices can vary at a maximum of 5%. I know this technology well personally. But at the price of quality printing is the most important price of packaging and import. I think we should insist on the quality of the imported and the packaging and make it a unique quality. It's the only way to combine prices. Simply dictate quality and import and packaging. But it also needs to be done as much on textbook standards as possible to match the content quality. I personally was the author and reviewer and a member of the commission and I saw that there really are a lot of textbooks that members of the commission don't even read, which are seen mistake after error, which the textbooks inside are actually the most and marketing in some textbooks more than content. There is an illustration that does not even have direct connection to the text, but the illustration is determined around the hotel. Many such things need attention when making textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44437	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44438	That's exactly what my colleague Maric, I'm using the opportunity for the minister to return to the hall. Let me say it again. Therefore, if only one single sentence of the most favourable price offer is included in this law, that the procedure will establish a standard of quality of packaging and paper import, then it is a guarantee to us if you prepare it in law for another reading, that there is an obligation of the agencies at the time of tendering. I know what you're going to tell me, I know, sir, what you're going to answer me. But I'm smoking cold just because of what you're now saying isn't you, or that some of them aren't what some of them brought in before. The standard of quality in technical terms is clearly prescribed and is found to be extremely important in order to avoid both manipulation and the possibility of duplication and corruption itself. Besides content, that technical part is very important to me. All those who have dealt with commercials, all those who have submitted tenders, processed offers know, and carried out public tenders know that the point of success is to achieve the same quality with a lower price extremely good tender documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44439	State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44440	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor, for your encouragement and thank you for that, we have spoken to publishers who print textbooks on the Brethren, meaning for our blind students, but also undersighted with a big letter. There are four of them, you know it well. And we tried to see with them that these dynamics of their printing, publishing textbooks were faster. So, to prepare us more copies to cover the entire population of such students, from the first grade of primary school to the end of high school. However, we have received the answer that this can actually be difficult, that those in this time with whom they have regular working hours can make it very difficult to promise that they will be able to double it in, say, one year. By the way, say that the public might have full information about this, these students don't pay for these textbooks, so that's paid from the position of the Ministry of Health and Social Care and from our position as our ministry. So the large amounts spoken of are not paid by the parents of these students, but paid by the state budget. That's right. This proposal of yours that went towards getting computers with a voice unit which is optimal and best, the state budget has been discussed, adopted and therefore those funds provided for in the purchase of computer equipment will be seen with what dynamics we will be able to go to and into that part, which would, of course, fit the students most, with a note that if that happens, it will probably be on the revers while someone is schooling. Which we think is fair to the end. So, so much for that. This second, this doubt of yours when we talk about the quality of the textbook. In fact, there's going to be two levels that will sort of define that. One level is a textbook standard. In the teaching standard, as a sublegal act brought by the minister, because it would be funny, for example, if the Parliament were to adopt sublegal acts, otherwise it would have to be 0-24 and not arrive again, so it is brought by the minister, taking care of what the profession says and what kind of resolution the image should be, and what style it should be, and how glue, or what kind of connection it should be, etc. That's one level. And the second level is to call a public tender where there may be other conditions mentioned. So, of course, we'll take care of it. So, in fact, the most important quality of the content that will be found in the textbook, but we are not even interested in the quality of the book itself in that physical sense, so that it does not disintegrate and that it will not be questioned to serve that textbook for at least four years. Of course, we can't guarantee that no one will be able to destroy the book, who knows what it would have to be of if you really wanted to destroy it, but of course it depends on who's using that book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44441	Thank you. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's mine, I'd say, a modest contribution to this debate, which is already taking place by the Education Committee, so here's to clubs. Certainly, the system of publishing and selling textbooks of the sea you will agree to contribute to the stability of education, that this is one of the fundamental objectives. One of the most important issues in the education system of the already mentioned national curricula of the pedagogical standard is certainly a well-resolved system of publishing and selling textbooks. Since the first law of 2001, these last amendments and additions to the law of the existing 2009 have been some changes, probably because each law is the best rule of law in practice, and practice has shown that something in these legal proposals has to be changed so far. Since the application of this law, which is now in force, the number of textbooks has increased, colleagues and colleagues, every school year. Not only did the number of textbooks increase, but the prices and textbooks and teaching aids and teaching tools grew. Every year they become more expensive textbooks, but believe not much more quality, not more technical, not more contentable, but more expensive. And apparently, it was really high time that something changed in that part of it and started as much as possible to control and try to solve the problem of the textbook price. Despite changing the Law on textbooks, we can say that this law, however much it seems to us, will not have any colleagues of Lesar, and he said he expects that these words recorded by our minister's phonogram, he will repeat it again after a while. He probably will, for this law, apparently in its application, may face difficulties again. But if this change was the beginning of the introduction of order on the textbook market, we must all agree. This idea, which, even on the board and now here, has been expressed by colleagues several doubts about whether this idea of textbooks is chosen by an active teacher of the classes or by a council of teachers, is it in any way reducing the right to choose a teacher? No, I don't. Because the teacher is the one who will choose, and the activity will agree with it, or not. But why does it matter? Because first of all, the institution of the active and the council of teachers is an institution that will be some kind of first step in that choice. What happens now in practice, colleagues and colleagues? The teacher chose textbooks. Today, my colleague Chuhnil seemed to mention that five or six textbooks were selected for one parallel class. It is. And you know why? Because the publishers were putting such pressure on teachers, so I'd say by giving I'll say donation, let's not call it anything but donations, free books, free computers, and I don't know everything I don't, so the teacher came into the situation, offered to teach in four parallel classes in 5a, b, c and d, and that in each of those classes, colleagues and colleagues, he chooses another textbook. And then what happens? It happens that you have a child who travels from field school to parent school because of the move and imagine in the same school can't use the same book. That was very, very noticeable to you in practice. It is this law that will try, I believe and reduce, precisely to select 2 textbooks, but not 2 now I will choose 2 textbooks but from those textbooks who, I would say on that first step, have passed that 10% selection step and of those textbooks choose 2 the most qualitative or we can agree with 3 what colleagues have suggested, 3 quality textbooks and then it is a good competition for teachers. There will be no doubt as it is said, at least on the Education Committee, that now the principals will force teachers and active ones to choose those textbooks for which they find the possibility that they will press for selection and thus go for the benefit of some publishers. I don't think that's gonna be possible. It is good, and the aim of this law is to use textbooks for many years, so I agree with the Ministers that every four years we begin the procedure for approving textbooks. What is new in this bill is also the role of the agency in education and education, i.e. the Professional Education and Education Agency, which will provide expert opinions on textbooks and additional teaching tools for certain subjects of the profession. It may be good to pass it on to the agency, but again I appeal to those committees that will work within the agency that when selecting textbooks we really go through a real review, and not again if we have a selection of a large number of textbooks to sort of open the way again, I would say, hundreds of copies of parallel textbooks. I also warned, and that's what my colleague Chuhnil said, so I'm not going to do it again, and this is about textbooks relating to language textbooks and the letter of national minorities, and I don't think it's good to have roof associations, and we don't have a definition of now, except in 2 possibly 3 national minorities, they're bringing in the approval that the textbook will be in use. I agree with the National Minority Club because I suggested it myself on the Education Committee. The criteria for selecting textbooks are the lowest price offered. The lowest price offered can certainly not be the only criterion, but when I think about it, I don't know how I would now determine what quality it is, what is the quality of the textbook? We have to believe, colleagues and colleagues, the commission that will choose the textbook because then it's crazy if we don't trust our professional associates right now. I think, and I don't agree with my colleague, Beus, that's where people who aren't professional work. These are primarily people who have as much knowledge as I do of certain years of work and experience in practice and in schools. And here in the end maybe I'll look back as one of my colleagues who mentioned the teaching aids that also take up a certain place in this bill, says that those who have the Agency's recommendation will be chosen, which is certainly good because so far, whether schools have been flooded with different teaching aids, auxiliary teaching aids that were not at all approved by the ministry were already a product, I would say, a marketing product and thus entered schools without having a certain quality. Through the debate on the bill, she appeared and doubted that, I said, the publishers would put pressure on the principals, and I don't think it will be, and I think those fears of such a species will just lead to more serious work on the selection of textbooks in schools. And it's finally good that you left in those last articles the possibility of funding textbooks and supplementary teaching funds from the state budget because in the event that there is still a situation that we will be able to get some textbooks, not all of them, but perhaps finance from the state budget that it doesn't have to change the law. Here, I finally think that the adoption of a new teaching standard, and also some of these significant changes in this law, will achieve the goal, and that is, above all, an easier learning bag and others, that the textbook will be possible to inherit, that it will have a multi-annual use.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44443	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, it is the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44444	Here's fellow Rocksandic correction, I believe it's a lapus, but it still needs to be fixed. You said that from those textbooks that pass the one... they get more than 10% of teachers to choose the highest quality. It's going to be the cheapest, not the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44445	Thank you. And we have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I could totally agree with my colleague Roxandić's debate. I think she explained it very closely, so how much this law will improve the quality of the textbooks. The only thing that I think should be added here is that I would briefly refer to article 6 about terminology. I think that here, and the secretary of state here will certainly make sure that in the title, and in Article 6, the term of children with special needs is deleted but that they are children or students with developmental difficulties as they should and should be and I must say that here today, the Croatian Association of the Blind today, on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, commended this bill because they have seen that in the sublegal act they can also in some way influence that textbooks for them are also made on braille's letter and that blind children have equal conditions in schools as all other children. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44447	Thank you. The second is a replica, the esteemed representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44448	Dear colleagues, Roksandic, I believe that when discussing some laws, we should not only discuss theoretical possibilities, but very practical variants that can be produced as a consequence of the law. What I'm particularly concerned about here is the choice of textbooks in schools if it stays as planned for us to say this percentage in the first round of elections, let's say three textbooks pass. One gets 70% teacher support, the other gets 17% teacher support and the third gets 13% teacher support. Because of the lowest price criteria, it can happen to us and we've limited it to two, that this textbook chosen by 70% of teachers falls out. And that we actually have those chosen by 13 and 17% of teachers left in our schools. It's a very likely scenario that isn't just to say theoretically. And it seems to me that if we look at it from that perspective that this law is not an optimal solution. You said the same thing about donations from publishers, you used that expression, and then I'll continue in that expression. It seems to me that if they choose the textbooks active, and we had such variants before, where, despite the legal possibility, it is also the right for teachers to choose their own teachers that, in a number of cases, directors or acting leaders did not allow that freedom to their teachers. Despite the fact that it was legally guaranteed, the call for receiving the donation was significantly stronger. And if we legalize this situation now, I'm afraid we'll get into an even more difficult situation. I hope you will support the proposal to introduce into the law an article that prohibits donations from publishers to schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44449	Thank you. Reply to the replica of the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44450	... Would it be good if we were saying no donations to the principals, but then that law, with the choice of textbooks, would only be on that matter. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Can the school receive another donation that's not related to this, then that would be problematic. I have no doubt that the activity, the more doubt I will be tortured, no matter how much I trust my colleagues at school, these are the little things they get. A trip, this, that. But it's more likely when you're influenced by someone, when you're influenced by a publisher, so they force you than when it affects your activity. Don't think that directors will be able to influence 15 people in one activity. Well, you can't influence 15 people that easily, can you, and force him to do what you say. You can do more individually, when it comes to donations, I have used that mildly word with recognition. Because I really don't think school colleagues are inclined to receive such big gifts for some services. And as for the first one when you went for the pick and the cheapest prices. Well, I agree that in addition to the lowest price, there must be quality. But at this point, I still feel that the learning standard is going to be exactly what I don't know, and neither will you, within 30 days, I guess we'll get it. The minister must do so to determine exactly what kind of textbook this textbook must be. So what it says in the textbook standard and the lowest price will probably be able to choose two or three textbooks that we agree on from the 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44451	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Wesna Škulić, the distinguished representative, is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me begin in a slightly different way, since I believe my colleagues know, because already my colleague Lukacic said, today is International Day for Persons with Disabilities and I would first read article 24. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as Croatia signed the Convention first and of course assumed the obligation to implement it. And we are especially about children with developmental difficulties that are very, very important. Of course, it is important for the Republic of Croatia, because if the report is, or if we do not, if the report is not accepted, we can answer for it, or be punished. Otherwise, as far as the termology itself is concerned, say children with developmental difficulties. So when it comes to termological, when it comes to children with special needs, children with special educational needs are spoken, regardless of whether they are gifted children, or when it comes to children with developmental difficulties, children with developmental difficulties with special educational needs are said. Otherwise, Article 24. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities speaks of education. He says, "The state parties recognise the right of persons with disabilities to education. In order to achieve this right without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities. States Parties will ensure the inclusiveness of the education system as well as lifelong education aimed at the full development of human potential and senses of dignity and self-value, empowerment, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and human diversity. Developing the personality of persons with disabilities as well as their talents and creativity and mental and physical abilities in their full potential. Enabling effective participation of persons with disabilities in free society. In the exercise of this right, the Party will ensure that persons with disabilities are not excluded from the general education system based on their disability and that children with developmental difficulties are not excluded from free and mandatory primary or secondary education based on developmental difficulties. That persons with disabilities can have access to inclusive, quality and free basic education and secondary education on an equal basis with others in the communities they live in. Reasonable adaptation to individual needs. In order for disabled persons to receive the necessary assistance within the general education system to facilitate their effective education. Provide effective individualised support measures in environments that contribute most to academic and social development in line with the objective of full inclusion. States parties will enable people with disabilities to learn life and social development skills in order to facilitate their full and equal participation in education and life as members of the community. To that end, the State Party will do the following. Facilitate the learning of Breill's letter, alternative letter, argumentative and alternative ways, means and forms of communication, the skills of orientation and mobility, and promote peer support and mentoring work. Facilitate the learning of sign language and the promotion of the language identity of the deaf community, ensure that the education of persons is mainly children who are blind, deaf and deaf in the most appropriate languages and means of communication for those individuals and in the environments that encourage intellectual development to the greatest extent possible. In order to help secure this country's right, the parties will take appropriate measures to hire teachers including teachers with disabilities who know sign language and Breill's letter and will train experts and staff working at all educational levels. Such training will include awareness of disability and the use of appropriate agmentative and alternative means and forms of communication, educational techniques and materials to support disabled persons. States Parties will ensure that persons with disabilities have access to general tertiary education, professional training, adult education and lifelong learning without discrimination and on an equal basis with others. To this end, the State Party will ensure reasonable adjustment for persons with disabilities." It is said in Article 24 of the Convention. Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. But I will look back on what I was warned about by the Croatian Association of Blinders who sent me today a letter and otherwise addressed the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. All of this therefore includes the transport of assistants in teaching, the physical accessibility of schools, equalising the opportunities of all regardless of disability throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, each system should identify the differences that are important for the day-to-day operation whether it is a group or an individual, especially when policy or law is created. In this case, the draft law on textbooks is recognized and not regulated in the right way by the needs of blind and undersighted students. And so far, an existing problem in achieving standards for blind students, i.e. the inaccessibility of textbook literature used in regular schools, which should be printed on Brajica seems to make this bill even more complicated. The process of making such textbooks is very demanding, long-term and very expensive where this last one is affected by a very low fee, in some cases only five copies. So far, this very important issue for the quality education of blind and undersighted students has been resolved by the ad hoc Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Centre for Education "Vinko Beg", the Croatian Alliance of Blind and Other Publishers. This means that the provisions of the Law on textbooks were not applicable to the whole process of the production and distribution of Brazilian textbooks. Unfortunately, even this proposal for a textbook law does not seem promising for the population of blind and undersighted students. It is mentioned in Article 6 alone that the procedure, deadlines as well as other important actions in the approval process and the form of the issue of textbooks for children with developmental difficulties is governed by sublegal acts adopted by the minister. This means that everything else in the process of making distributions, pricing and other particulars in the case of textbooks in Brajica is applied in accordance with the provisions of this law provided for for textbooks in the standard press. This is quite inappropriate because of the specificity of making Bray's textbooks, which is what the Ministry of Science is aware of. This is mainly about the copying of approved textbooks from the standard press on Brajic. Furthermore, the tender procedure for the publisher would further extend the process of publishing Braje's textbooks and regularly happen that blind and undersighted students receive textbooks only when the school year is almost over. The textbooks on Brajica are expensive for a small story, sometimes in just a few copies, making takes relatively long, standard text should be transferred to Braille's letter, pictures should be described in words, text editing, lecturing and correction, printed on special braiding devices and others. And their design can only be accessed when the textbooks in the standard version of the latinic letter are sold, so somewhere in August. This means, in practice, that according to the provisions of this law, in order to publish and execute competitions for the production of brazi textbooks, blind and undersighted children receive textbooks somewhere at the end of the school year, which is absurd. There are only four publishers of the "Vinko Beg" and the Croatian Library for the Blind, which is a public institution and the other two are the Croatian Associations of the Blind. All of these publishers do not have the capacity to provide the books with blind and impaired children in time especially as in the present situation when there were more textbooks selected by teachers for one subject. It happened that one blind student had to have a copy of the Bray textbook being attended by a regular school where the teacher chose the textbook of one author and the other blind children attended a regular school in another place where the teacher chose another author’s textbook again. So we know how long this process is, with a cup and everything. Making bridal textbooks has its unfortunately high price to pay. As these textbooks are one instance and up to 50 times more expensive than standard ones, it would be extremely discriminatory and contrary to the strategy and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that regulate the accessibility of education for disabled persons in this case blind and undersighted children that this cost must be borne by parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44453	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44454	Just a little bit, please, 'cause I had to make an introduction for International Disabilities Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44455	Ten minutes is 10 minutes. Say a few more words, but you're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44456	This leads to human rights violations or children’s blind and undersighted children. The cost of printing must be borne by the State through its institutions. In this class for the current school year, the publisher is still making textbooks on Brajica and they still don't know who will pay for it and whether it will be paid at all. And finally, the proposed draft law, the issues of making these specific textbooks are not regulated or regulated in an inconclusive and poor way by putting them in the class of textbooks with a small story, and this is a very different and special area that requires and specific regulations. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44457	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44458	So here's a series of incorrect allegations that my colleague listed, I don't have time right now, and I'm not going to list them all, I'm going to fix just one, I think we need to start from the beginning. When you spoke to your colleagues about the termology you incorrectly said that under the terms of children with special needs you were referring to specific educational needs. It can't be true, and you know it's not true, and here you should write children with developmental difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44459	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's the honorary representative Arsen Bauk. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And then it's the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44460	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. I believe that the proposer of this law had a good intention of introducing order into the textbook market. I believe that he had good intentions to help students and their parents and teachers so that school goods were finally easier, that books could be inherited, that the immaterial value and respect for books in children's eyes finally began to grow and eventually, that the price of textbooks began to fall. But the problem is that we have heard it many times already and let us be a little skeptical. I don't think anyone here should be particularly convinced of the existing chaos and the sea of absurdities that we have witnessed in the last few years, and we have witnessed both false moves and wrong decisions that unfortunately caused a series of unnecessary problems, I would say, and the consequences of these failures were primarily made by students and their parents and teachers. It even seems to me that you're ministers of the moment you said I'm not Dragan Primorac and you've admitted all those failures and all those bad moves that the ministry has done in the past few years which isn't bad. I don't think that's bad. It would've been good if we'd learned something from the experiences we've had, but the question is whether or not we are. I kind of believe that the beginning of this school year we haven't experienced, how to say that it doesn't sound ugly, I wanted to say the embarrassing sale and exchange of textbooks in the way it happened, the question is, would we have this bill on the benches today? However, I think that the objective must be clear to us and that the application should not, on the other hand, be passed by law without a clear idea of any possible consequences that could arise from the bill. So, I'm sure of one thing, and that's that the law doesn't need to be passed hasty and we're bringing it in for a longer period of time, and it's really important to reach a consensus of all those who are interested in this problem, so both the ministries and schools and the publishers. And you have to be really wise and find one equalibrium between these three very important factors. I agree with my colleague Lugaric when he says that we haven't achieved much in the past few years, so the title is also increasing and the state, or parents, is paying more and more. My colleague Šetić told them nicely, there are no free textbooks only a question of who pays them. School books are really very expensive today, but for a good part also because of a system that allowed the prices of school books to rise and I would say the smooth awakening of new and new titles. And don't be mad at us when we say that the Educational Authority allowed dozens of new titles to be approved every year, and last year's books ended in garbage because that's what it really is. And if we could just remember how those prices grew from four years ago to here, then it would stop a man's breath. 14 years ago for elementary school, a set of books was going somewhere I think about 50 million kunas. The price of books was only about 20 kunas apiece at the time. When the books returned to the market, the collection was between 15% and 20% annually. And if I'm not mistaken, Minister Primorac was negotiating a package of free textbooks at a spinning price of 380 million kuna, which you of course must do well... What? ... Yes, yes, 380, but already the following year are school books, the state paid a lot more for school books than the first time she bought for all students and for only 50% of the book fund, the government's cashier's register paid about 450 million kuna or 70 million kuna more than the first time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that should end, and if we agree on anything, then we agree on that. And we agree that the ministry needs to correct the bad policy that allowed schools to become, I would say, trades in some way in which representatives of publishers literally drag teachers' sleeves, advertising, so to speak, their products. The school must by no means be a place where books and other doactic material will be sold directly, of course bypassing bookstores. My colleague, Roksandić, mentioned something, so it is no news or secret that the publishers in this direct trade were very, very generous in their gifts and in laptops and in LCD projectors and bowing to cameras etc. We all know that very, very well. And that should also really end. Mr. Minister, you know as well as I do that the publishers gave the schools Lectarian titles. I'm sure you know that, and we have proof that you know that. The proof is that for four years in the Republic of Croatia's budget, there is not a single kuna for schools and the equipment of school libraries with a booklet. Why? Well, I don't know, it might be good for you to say later in your address why, because you know what kind of impression he's making of himself, without the intention of being mean or not knowing what he's doing. It's like they had your silent approval to do that. And so I absolutely support a proposal that I don't know who first mentioned that you should insert in this bill an article prohibiting school publishers' donations. So, like I said absurd examples there's a lot. I just happened to hear about another one today. There is talk of some additional textbook for music culture Croatian traditional music that is very richly equipped, which is printed in 300,000 copies with a price of 149 kuna with a total value of several tens of millions of kuna. I couldn't even believe it. On several occasions, I prayed that he would repeat the amount. So the book mentioned is in the curriculum and the program with only 2 hours a year at the price it has. I think it really represents an absurdity because after this summer, when we saw how things ended, the price of the book just fell to 79 kuna. So, that should definitely end. I see time coming to an end. Allow me to review very briefly on several articles. Article 8 which states that the procedure for the authorisation of textbooks determines the consistency of textbooks with the national and the curricula concerned and the teaching standard. So there's been a comment on this before. But I see my time is up. I'm gonna take the chance some other way to say what I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44461	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First is the distinguished representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this is how you fellow Romana said it was important to reach a consensus in all areas, of course, as well as here and in the Parliament. Because once again, when I spoke in my debate, I read article 24 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We think if, if there's been an inaccuracy in that, then we're the one who signed wrongly. Then we signed the wrong document and then we'll file the wrong report. By the way, I was also talking to my colleagues about consensus, so I thought I'd make it clear to the secretary of state that children with special educational needs are therefore children with developmental difficulties with special educational needs. And also special educational needs have those children who are gifted. So that's how I talked about children with developmental difficulties. And also, as far as my own discussion of the few minutes I've been saying for about two, three minutes in my debate. So all that the secretary of state said before me. So, to problems and expensive textbooks and technology to make textbooks and all that. So, if I said anything wrong in my debate, then the secretary of state said it all wrong. So we both talked about the same problem of blind students, and so did Mr. Lesar. So, we've all been saying something wrong here. And in the end, it looks like the entire Croatian association of blind people told me all wrong, because I was actually reading what they wrote to me. So, I think it's important really, really, colleague Jerkovic to reach a consensus especially today between us people with disabilities, because there are a lot of protocol events and promises and I think we should put an end to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44463	Replica reply, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44464	I couldn't agree more with you, colleague Škulić. I actually think it's a shame that she didn't sort out her activities in some way first, and then the question of textbooks would be a lot easier to solve. The ministry has decided to go in reverse order, and I hope it would be nice for the ministers to introduce a new practice compared to the rest of your colleagues. I think it would be good if you really took seriously to consider all our proposals aware that all our criticisms, suggestions, advices addressed to your address have in fact only one goal, which is to make this bill more quality and enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44465	Thank you. Then we have another replica. It is the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44466	Thank you. My colleague Jerkovic, you started your discussion with words we are justifiably skeptical, so since this bill is a reaction to the observed problems in the field of textbooks, a reaction to an anarchy in the choice of textbooks I think the proposed solutions are quite good. It can also be improved because there is plenty of time, it goes to another reading. And that's why we should really be optimistic, not pessimistic. We should also be optimistic because these will likely help to eradicate the perceived phenomenon of commercialisation in the area of textbooks. And I agree with you when you say it's not good to donate school publishers. I don't think it's good. I don't think that's even ethical. As is not ethically remembered and it has been found that the Commercial Court in Zagreb when it received a donation from the party that was in the proceedings at the Commercial Court returned those funds. There are so many legal people and individuals who are willing to donate school, so there's no need to donate those four. And I think that we should even consider introducing a provision in the law to prohibit such an option, to avoid any possibility. Then we will really have the opportunity to get cheaper textbooks and better quality and quality design, which is why we need to be optimistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44467	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44468	My colleague Maric, I am an optimist. I am an optimist. I expressed my skepticism at the beginning, and I'm sure you're also aware of the fact that justifiable skepticism is given how many times in a relatively short time we had this same law in the parliamentary procedure. It's where our skeptics come from. It comes from the fact that we have made very good suggestions on many occasions, that we have predicted some things and that our proposals have not been respected. I have to tell the optimist about the new minister and I am almost certain that some of the good proposals will be constructively included by the next reading in the draft of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44469	Thank you. And another replica, distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad my colleague is this optimistic, because we're as optimistic as we are about this bill and the overall development of the textbook. I agree with you colleagues that this example that you cited from the music culture textbook is an eclectic example of how prices are broken and how unnecessary it is. Just as unnecessary in art culture textbooks, so much so in music culture. Let's just say kids get touch with music in a live concert and open the world that way, because that way it's possible to open that world, so by listening directly, and not through some textbook that won't give them a single thousand of knowledge, I'm sure. It is therefore absolutely appropriate to ask the question of art education in schools, primary schools, but it is another sphere, a completely different sphere. I hope, as promised, that we will soon have, I know that this is a proposal for a new Law on Art Education, Art Schools, and it is absolutely certain that we will address this issue in another way. But as far as the textbooks are concerned, I think it's justified that what the ministry has absolutely put before us, which is to narrow down the choice, make a better choice, allow the textbook to last longer, at least four years, which will certainly disable all those who are doing the pressure to earn, because their motive is only to earn. It's their only motive. Our motive is to have quality, which will of course be able to be checked, but those four years of the textbook's duration will be sufficient assurance that this textbook is quality, of course supported by at least 10% of teachers and I think it's all complicated right and I think this is a significant step forward. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44471	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's next, Honourable representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44472	Dear Ministers, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This law, which today, or whose proposal we are discussing today, has experienced the last years of multiple changes. Unfortunately, after these changes, there were more riots in the sphere, the student bags were harder, and the parents’ bills were more empty. In one word, we can say greater regulation, more problems for students and parents, but also for teachers. The truth is that knowledge is multiplying at ever shorter intervals. The truth is also that all of this is happening in a multiplier way, but that these knowledge is interpreted in so many different ways, in so many different versions, in so many different editions, with so many additional teaching means and with such short durations of time, which we could literally qualify as a one-time use. So it is something that is unique only to Croatia. There is no such thing in richer countries, and I guess that is one of the reasons why these countries are rich. We teach children a vast amount of material that certainly has no useful value, and we do not teach them how to use tools that can quickly access any information. We can almost say that our children literally don't see trees anymore from the forest. But that's why there are both authors and publishers who made good money writing and stamping out all the new and new textbooks. So hyperproduction exclusively in profit function, in profit function, and not in the function of obtaining quality textbooks and quality textbook content. With full right, there is a question of responsibility for such chaos and not only on the textbook market, but in education in general. However, asking a question of responsibility in Croatia is the same as saying good day to the deaf. A lot of times lately, it's been said that ministers are justified, that they defend themselves not to be responsible because they don't know. But we all know very well that for ignorance, we're going to make a little joke, get a unit, and units lead to a fall. This legislative proposal that we have today predences to introduce a certain order. In this regard, however, my predecessors expressed a certain skepticism, since when drawing up the bill, the profession was not consulted or at least not consulted to a sufficient extent. And we all know very well, namely that after the door closes in the classroom only students remain, with their teachers and of course with textbooks as a basic tool for work. And so I'm going to say a few more remarks, quite concrete, about this bill. The first remark concerns Article 8 of which it is said that the procedure for approving textbooks determines the consistency of textbooks with the national and the curricula in question, as well as the teaching standard, and that the procedure for the authorisation of textbooks is generally carried out every four years. We've heard it many times today. The conformity process cannot be implemented at this time, because we all know that there is no national and relevant curricula in Croatia. True, it is expected to be adopted soon, but it is clear that it will inevitably reflect the content of existing textbooks, so it will not be possible to meet the criteria for the four-year validity of textbooks. The adoption of this law should therefore be time-consistent with the adoption of the national and the curricula in question. The second remark is next. In case a teaching course fails to select a textbook in the tender procedure, the agencies are allowed to obtain the textbook without a public tender at 25% higher price. I wonder, isn't that how the profit space opens up again? And finally, the thing that bothers me the most about this bill is that there is no provision in it that would impose an evaluation of textbooks, after a certain period of use of this textbook, for example one year. The legislative proposal stipulates that an expert opinion should be given to the Education and Education Agency, i.e. the Professional Education and Education Agency, but only in the phase of the authorisation of textbooks. There are no provisions in the law which would impose an evaluation of textbooks after its trial use, and such a obligation, we remember well, existed earlier when we had very good, very good textbooks in Croatia. In fact, I think there's a big difference in whether the textbook is evaluated by reading and observing in the agency's office or whether it's done, or whether it's done in practice through daily work because I think we all have to agree that practice is the best correction for each textbook. I think, therefore, that you should hear the attitude of those who used this textbook, so primarily teachers, but also professionals like logos and defecologists and psychologists who would evaluate the compliance of textbooks with the textbook standard. For example, from the size of the letter, highlighting parts of the text, depending naturally on the age of children, from the application of colors, size of icons, photos etc. Of course, the evaluation should include the Ombudsman for children and lawyers for gender equality in part of the evaluation of textbooks with the Family Law, the Law on Gender Equality and other regulations to eliminate gender stereotypes which unfortunately our textbooks are still abundant because schools are educational institutions, so children must also be raised in schools. Finally, criminal provisions provide for penalties for both teachers and schools and publishers, and I ask why the criminal provisions of the amnesty agencies are, and we all know very well that there is very, very much room for guessings and for any abuses in the agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44473	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual debate, so the review will be given by the secretary of state in the end. Dear Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. So here are many decisions from the field and moves of people in our education, of course ruling people, caused by unnecessary problems in recent years, and the consequences of these failures were unfortunately borne primarily by our students and their parents. Reforms without order and rules were introduced as if they were the result of improvisation. Here tonight, Minister Fuchs also said that he is not Dragan Primorac, and I am pleased that you are the minister who promises by being fenced by the former minister who has just introduced him I can say chaos in school that both our students and our parents are aware of. Let us remember the proposal, i.e. the amendment and addition of these laws and a year ago which spoke exclusively of commercial, money, cost of production, but did not mention in any single word the importance of ensuring the quality of textbooks as a teaching tool that should help our students better and easier to master teaching material. We're also aware of the weight of student bags, our children are growing and developing. We know how much this weight, or misrepresentation, can have a negative effect on the child’s health status. So nothing happened to that problem. You know, on the past amendments and additions to this law, we've pointed to this problem, it's been promised, nothing's been done about it. This is actually the law, which we heard tonight, which has been most frequently changed over the past few years. But even this last version as we hear it tonight is not satisfying. So far so are teachers who write their criticisms to us and ask us to respond in discussions. And so are the publishers, and the children and parents will say their afterwards. I'm going to look back on the articles that my colleagues have apostrophe now. This is, for example, Article 8 in the process of approving textbooks determines the consistency of textbooks with the national and the girl in question, however, as we know, as colleagues have also said, there is no. And he serves as the basis for the production of all other girls, i.e. girliculoloma documents such as items of girliculum, guidelines for the use of girlsulum, the production of textbooks and other curricula and materials. So I'm gonna make a little joke, are we gonna go wrong? Curiculum will be brought on the basis of already selected textbooks? Also participating teachers, the teacher participates in the process of selecting textbooks. Their participation will in fact be limited to a statement on some application textbook in the follow-up while, of course, the final decision is made at school level. In order for the textbook to be selected first, support must be given with at least 10% of teachers, then a price is sought for textbooks from publishers. After that, two of the cheapest are selected, among them schools choose a textbook that they want. However, as Article 13(2) states, "If an individual subject is not selected in the tender procedure, the textbook which is required by the teaching standard may be opened by the agencies, or by the author or minister, to propose a final solution to which the teaching course is approved by the textbook for that or an auxiliary and teaching tool without public competition." We wonder who will decide the quality of the textbook? By which criteria because the criteria are not developed and mentioned, of course, the girlculum has not been adopted, or has not been revived. Who's going to write a new textbook on the order? I'll look back on it as well as my colleagues, isn't this just a great opportunity to make a quick profit at the expense of all of us? I will also refer to Article 17, which states that the deadlines for printing are set until 01.08. Possible errors need to be corrected by the publisher. What time is school really fast? It is also Article 21 when it is given the opportunity by means of assistance that will make a difference of course among the students. opportunities for about 550, or 600,000 students, 50,000 teachers. The problem is big, it's not easy to bring, there'll probably be more changes and additions. We also heard tonight that he's checking in practice. That's right. However, this practice, or this area, is an area of education and education, a very sensitive system, very important, very important for each of us. And there's something else I'd like to say in the end. We had a discussion this morning about fighting addiction. We were talking about drugs. However, there is not only drug addiction, we have smoking, alcohol, games and various new addictions. We were talking about prevention, and now I'm going to suggest here or in a curricula that I need to introduce a new college. We're not going to call it health education, we're going to call it healthy lifestyles, so we're going to adapt it from grade 1 to grade 1, and I'm going to say kindergarten, so we're going to adapt it to age groups in growth and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44475	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So regarding the proposal for a textbook law on the basis of high school, it is clear that the current situation had to be changed because so far there were too many textbooks on the market, textbooks that were not good quality that changed year after year, and school bags on other children were becoming more and more difficult year after year. It is necessary to change the textbook market, but it is necessary to talk about who is responsible for such a situation, because, due to the constant change of textbooks, the students and teachers had the most damage due to the confusion and chaos that was still on the textbook market. The responsibility for such a situation lies certainly also at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the question arises whether it is the ministry or the people of the Ministry who are here, whether they are actually willing to pass a better law since they have passed such bad laws in the last 4 years. It's hard to believe. And this is exactly what the bill has proposed, and I want to talk about it. First, it was necessary to adopt the national and the curricula concerned, as the draft law stipulates that the procedure for the authorisation of textbooks must first determine the compliance of textbooks with the national and the curricula concerned, and the teaching standard. So how do we even determine the consistency of this because it is known that national and clever curricula have not been adopted at all. Why is it that they are quick to pass this law without prescribing the regulations with which these laws, or textbooks, are to be harmonised? We will find ourselves in this problem again because it is prescribed that the process of approving textbooks is carried out every 4 years, and since national curricula objects are not adopted, this means that the adoption of these regulations will need to change the content of existing textbooks. Furthermore, this law opens up space for individual earning, or guessing, what my colleagues have already spoken of. This is provided for in Article 13(2) of this Act, where it is prescribed that if a particular subject is not selected in the tender procedure, the Agency may, among other things, propose a specific textbook or an auxiliary teaching agent without the execution of a public tender. Furthermore, the price of this textbook so approved must not exceed the amount of costs increased by 25%. It is not said who will decide the quality of the textbook, who will order a new textbook, and in particular the disputed provision of paragraph 3 allowing the agency to propose a final solution to the textbook at 25% higher price. On the one hand, we pass a law proposing to reduce the number of parallel textbooks, while at the same time allowing new textbooks to be printed without carrying out a public competition, as I have already stated and questionable qualities. And there is certainly a danger that a large number of textbooks do not pass a public competition and that they may also be of quality and will resort to the choice of textbooks without a public competition. Furthermore, the fact is that teachers will be denied independence in the choice of textbooks because it is left to either professional agents or professional councils, which will certainly affect the quality of teaching because the choice of teachers has as much as we can see only the advisory character. Also, the price should not be the first criterion in the selection, because we are at risk of low price selecting textbooks of questionable quality, and a textbook that is slightly more expensive will not be approved, although it can be far more quality. Furthermore, the selection of textbooks by activity or by the Director's recommendation will lead to a number of problems. There is also the possibility that in such a situation, and this has already been discussed today, there will be these cases where teachers will be pressured. All of the above-mentioned free choice of teachers is not guaranteed in this bill of law. For the sake of all this, this bill needs to be completed, certain remarks should be taken into account in order to properly regulate this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44477	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44478	Honorable representatives of the ministry. He said the secretary of state when he talked about my discussion on behalf of the club, that through me the publishers and publishers were talking, that's not true. I speak here based on the views of the teachers that I received as a representative. The first is the teacher's initiative signed by over several hundred teachers who were bought through facebooks, the second is from the teacher's and teacher's teacher's forum, the third is from the forum for teachers and teachers and the fourth is the Association for Promoting School of Mathematics. Therefore, as a graduate class teacher alone, I want to say something from an exclusive teaching position on this law and concrete remarks. Article 2(1), second paragraph, of the textbooks under this proposal of the law, is intended for years of use, which means that we are terminating all working textbooks. Especially in lower classes of elementary school according to HNOS, methodical paradigms say that the textbooks are usually working and that children should be taught to work with a book. Item 3 of the same article where the additional teaching tools, work notes, task collections, geographical and historical atlas and art maps were defined when I spoke on behalf of the club, I said that it could not be in lower classes and, for example, in secondary vocational schools go by the same rule. This may be a good example. Let us tell the teachers in the first grade of elementary school we need Slovnica for the initial learning of reading and writing, and according to this law, some really needed additional teaching means will not be able to have in our schools. In that same article, paragraph 6, please, we have discussed this a thousand times in law making. Subject curricula is a plan and programme of teaching subjects, etc. The curricula is a curricula, a plan and a program is a plan and a program and we cannot define the curricula by plan and program. That definition simply needs to be changed. As regards Article 1(3), therefore, which states that the school may be exclusively in use of textbooks approved by the Ministry, etc. I think the law has to predict the possibility that a teacher if he doesn't want to not use the textbook. There are certain methodical paradigms and some teachers especially at primary school work so that they simply do not use the textbook. Why would they force anyone to have textbooks that they don't need? Or, for example, in the course of mathematics in high school very often should not have a textbook and it is good to have a collection of tasks. So there should kind of be a little bit of that definition of flexibility. Related to Article 6 that for these small stories and textbooks for children with developmental difficulties I ask you to stop with these special needs. Every child has a special need, and to finally introduce in our laws the established international terminology, that is what colleagues have already talked about. So, he writes the procedure, deadlines and all other important acts under the law are signed by the minister. We have to have some details here in law, we can't leave everything to the sublegals. Article 8 shall, with a request for approval, be submitted to the Ministry by four copies of the textbooks in printed form. Given that according to this proposal, the law is quite, i.e. It is not certain that this textbook will eventually reach the class. It seems more appropriate for publishers to provide manuscripts that can be designed to see what that textbook will look like. Because if we put a book in the competition that might not pass, it will collect those books that will pass because for the finished book you need to pay the illustrator, the authors, the reviewers, the fractures, etc. So it's completely irrational to put a book on the contest. I understand that intention to see what it will look like in the end but it can be solved in a way that completes the manuscript and then one or two chapters are fully arranged with illustrations or you already come up with some way but we simply don't collect things. And regarding that item 4 where the licenses for the publishers were missing, did you deliberately abandon them because you boasted with them as great achievements over the past three years or did it turn out to be a failure? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Indeed, professional commissions must be returned to the ministry and in a more detailed way prescribed by their workaround and composition than they have been in previous draft laws. Those sprawls that the committees were now giving a textbook review were funny, I think. This must indeed be a serious review procedure in a way and that members of the committee should then be responsible for what is in those books by their professional authority and professional name. I can wish myself a textbook writer, write a book, and declare it a school textbook. Whether it's really a school textbook or not determines exactly the ministry's commission, and that's the one somewhere that shares a book that has to be called a school textbook from another book, it really needs to be very detailedly prescribed in the law. Article 10, based on positive opinions in the list of approved textbooks, is given to teachers to assess the appropriateness for their application in the teaching process, something that is inappropriate for them for teaching cannot even be included in the list, because if I am inadequate for teaching to come to the list of textbooks that teachers choose between them then these review groups have not done a job at all as they should have done the job. Article 12 paragraph 1 is one single sentence "The criteria for selecting textbooks is the lowest price offered.". The lowest price offered can't be a criterion for selecting textbooks and you just wrote it in these eight words. The selection process of textbooks shall be carried out by the Board for the determination of the price of textbooks. In paragraph 2, you therefore further strengthen that the choice of books is actually done by the Price Selection Committee. The choice of books is probably the Book Selection Committee or if we've evened the book with the lowest price that I think it is and it's not good to change. Article 13(2) states that the agency can make, quote, a final solution to the textbook without competition and at 25% higher price. It's a great opportunity for manipulation, a team more than they're certain situations like if an item is not selected textbook. You can define, I believe that's where it was meant when no one answered and there's no book, when there's got to be a special order for some vocational schools and some of that less bullshit. The way it's written here is very ugly-looking and certainly ugly-looking, it can be interpreted as what I'm going to refrain from this time, but you know what I mean. In accordance with Article 15(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 15(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. It's just not good. If the teachers who teach in the third grade choose to work nature from set A and the second grade teachers choose that nature is done by set B. Then our child in second grade works by set B and in third grade works by set A because we have cemented that choice. So it's not good to do it horizontally, but that maybe teachers all set class arrangements and work vertically on objects if at all. To be clear, it would personally choose each one for itself but it's simple, this will bring you great problems because it has some logic especially in these lower classes. You have some kind of character that leads you through some kind of shop and now every year you change characters, I mean just sucks. Rocks. By July 1st, you publish a catalogue, until the 1.8th must be printed. Impossible mission. Those few deadlines should normally be obeyed by law because there are various. So, a few months you have to say your assessment and it's time for your textbook evaluation is several times longer than the time everything needs to be printed and written. So a little of these deadlines need to be obeyed in law. Article 21, think carefully about this article. You here allow the small door to be used, so you want to reduce the number on one side again, and then you bring it back to the small door now, these extra funds, and you say they can be used but there can be no usage obligation. In elementary school especially with small children you can't half the class have some tickets and half the class doesn't have some tickets. It just doesn't work. This may be complementary material in some special programs in secondary schools, especially in these small classes class classes it simply does not work and it needs this article 21 totally, because it may be added with the consent of the parent council or something like that. And just one more thing, I said no donations, and I repeat, the law has to have something to do with the experimental examination of textbooks. Why is it that when you approve textbooks we don't give him one year to check in a certain number of schools or teachers, and we see how he meets the objectives of the curricula, and then we give him approval for four years in order to have an easier review at the end. We can't just have consciousness on commercial. I'm not gonna support this bill, but I care very much about getting rid of this. I said I don't trust this department team to be able to handle it anymore because they've already had a lot of attempts and mistakes, but somehow from faith that we really need to sort out a problem that's enormous. And I'm making these personal remarks along with everyone who's been said by both colleagues and colleagues from the SDP and those I said on behalf of the MPs' club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44479	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44480	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Analysing the proposed Law on textbooks, it can undoubtedly be concluded that the law tries to regulate the market and social aspects of textbooks as goods. The law does not propose or raises the question of textbooks as a practical methodical means to achieve the educational and educational objectives set. expected levels of knowledge. It seems to me that prescribing the textbook structure in one way completely exempts the teacher from any responsibility for achieving the goal because responsibility takes over the one who ordered what students must learn from. However, not only is the proposed law treating the textbook exclusively as a slave but it is proposed to freeze its change for four years. Does this mean that the proposer of this law has decided to put to sleep Croatian knowledge and the flow of new knowledge for the next four years? Of course, I agree that there are three different textbooks in circulation that teachers will be able to choose each year, not two as proposed. In this fact, we have resolved that there are many textbooks in circulation, but we have also created a presumption of competition in quality and knowledge. The law proposes that the practice known in the world be abolished, that each teacher should evaluate and choose a teaching structure that will achieve the educational objective set. If teachers are deprived of their right to choose a textbook to work with, then any possible responsibility for the educational result is removed from it. The new law suggests that the teaching council will choose textbooks, so minorities will continue. This creates a presumption of influence on choice because of the majority of the i.e. All teachers are far more difficult to exert influence in the choice of textbooks. It is not only that that every teacher chooses the teaching structure, but it is a serious reason that each teacher is worth the student building each year. It seems to me that estimating the achievement of the objectives outlined should be a fundamental task for the applicant, not solely the social aspect that the state needs to address in a different way, rather than to the detriment of the necessary knowledge. I don't know, but if every four years new knowledge can be introduced into textbooks and schools, then we're a school blocked in its growth, I wouldn't want to take away any responsibility for the school's results. Once again, I ask if this is how we attacked a student, a teacher, a school and all the Croatian brains that should be united to bring as many new knowledge and goals as possible to the school every year. Because if we haven't defined our goals, we won't know what we're going to value for, but if we're worth every four years then we have to be aware that we killed the target. I personally hold, and therefore I support the adoption of this law, that Croatia should be a first-rate goal that students will know, what amount of knowledge they must have by entering the big world and how we will defend our knowledge of identity, survival, history and future. This can only be achieved by the knowledge and acquisition of competences, not by any social reduction which, in the proposed law, does not even mention knowledge and competence as a fundamental objective of education, an educated system. I agree it takes a small number of textbooks to last four years. I support a lighter school bag, but without the necessary amount of knowledge, competence and skills, there is no defense and representation of its own national identity, no intercultural communication or conversation with the world. Finally, the proposed law does not deal with a single sentence with its primary task, which is a national curricula that would assume that Croatia finally once defines its objectives in the education system. I must add here that Croatia should bring its own curricula and define national objectives in all disciplines in order to create a presumption of national unity on this programme in all important issues which we have heard in the debate now, as we have heard in the debate, and in practice the curricula for primary and secondary schools. In the end, I appreciate the proposal to address some issues with this bill. However, in the preparation of reading material, these remarks, which I consider essential for the regulation of this topic, should certainly be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44481	Thank you. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44482	Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, Mr. Vice President. I'll be brief, but I hope so. It certainly seems to me that a strong welcome and sincere commendation of the intention to achieve this law, but I am afraid as I see it, the means you have proposed do not lead to a declared goal. First, I'm not going to talk about this being the third, fourth version of the law in a very short time, that you haven't appreciated some of our remarks from previous discussions, but that's why we have a second reading, so I hope you'll get better at it. Then one part of the provision is, in some ways, contradictory, but two principled remarks. First, it seems to me that the law is inoperable because it has been passed by a depraved method that is the permanent practice of this ministry. Instead of respecting the dominant logic of the education system and therefore order and hierarchy of appropriate measures, so the law. We do things wrong all the time. First we passed pedagogical standards, and then the law because pedagogical standards should be implemented by the Law on Primary and Secondary Education. We now pass the Law on textbooks, and then we will adopt pedagogical standards. The law is an inoperable article 8. If I am not mistaken, one says quite clearly. The procedure for approving textbooks shall determine the consistency of the textbooks with the national curricula concerned, as well as the teaching standards. As long as we don't have the national curricula and we don't have the curricula in question, and the textbooks will be approved under this law. Mr. Minister, we'll have a state of emergency all the time. We'll have a state of emergency in the system. And I don't think we need that. I wish you all the best and many successes to come with a national curricula proposal as soon as possible, but I fear that with the curricula in question and the national curricula at least the basis of those news that touch my ears. Let's hope they're not true, because we're still in for a hard time. Secondly, we have one near-excess that brings Mr. Vice President the entire legal system into its own kind of instability. Because, in Article 26, it says well that textbooks, we have confusion and deadlines, right, that textbooks are made according to certain rules of competition. So according to the old procedure, and when approved, they will be subject to this law. Therefore, the legal certainty element consists of the start-up of the game by the rules that were valid at the time the game started. And if you're going to apply this law since autumn then it's also a mission intable next school year. I'm afraid it's a mission indisposable because all the deadlines you've provided for in the law have been violated. So, not one of the deadlines that the law prescribes anymore can you stick to it because the 1.9th was the beginning of the process that is being opened. So we have another state of emergency. And then I don't know if there's any need to repeat your discussion on the board. So, let's go get the articles or you've recorded it there. So, I've had on board a whole series of concrete remarks. Mr. Vice President, I would like to pay particular attention to Articles 13.2 and 13.3. Articles 13.2 and 13.3., if no textbook is published under the appropriate conditions, then the Agency shall have the right to open the procedure itself and publish a textbook in a direct contract under conditions which will be up to 25% more expensive than normal conditions. So I'm warning you that's something, forgive 13.2, 13.3.3 that's something that's practically pulling on corruption. In a situation where we are constantly fighting corruption. So I warned about it and one or two elements of what the law lacks. On the one hand, it seems to me, Mr. Minister, that you approve of textbooks that a commission approved by textbooks should also be in the ministry, regardless of what a whole series of jobs to prepare, evaluate, etc. Outsourced to the agency. And it seems to me that it would be optimal if that commission were structurally laid down by law, so there's no scrupulousness. When you know that we approve of textbooks that are very serious and sensitive text they can be viewed from different cancers. In order to ensure that all these cancers will be taken into account when assessing the textbooks, I suggest you establish the structure of the commission that will evaluate these textbooks and make the final decision. And finally, I also suggest that this commission be a committee in the ministry, not a committee in the agency. And the final point. It seems to me, and it has already been on several occasions, that it should rise sharply against the various forms of corruption or its potential. Publishers fought for their editions in different ways in schools and distributed different donations. I would be very pleased if in the second version of the law we could see a proposal that school textbook publishers couldn't donate any donations to schools, not schools, not their teachers, and that way Mr. President would get close to that constitutional category if everyone had equal chances. So these would be my suggestions and this is the text of a law that's even more creamy because you have a whole series of mistakes textbookly mustached with a student. You have an agency and a ministry in one place. So, it also leaves a bit of a bad impression of the completion of the text, and also because of these substantial, rather than aesthetic remarks, I will not be able to support the law in this form but I hope you will respect some key remarks and that if it is possible to bring this law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44483	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44484	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I especially welcome the minister and his associates, and it really is an honor and a pleasure to have you here. There are almost more of you than we are in the assembly while we talk about what it means in a certain way in relation to the topic we discuss about textbooks that you have not only served the textbooks well, but that you have acquired your knowledge and behavior beyond the textbooks. That's why I'm complimenting you on my part and thank you because that's exactly what we were fighting about the other day for how much attention it takes for the Parliament. I was expecting that, given that Mr. Shakespeare's colleague presided over the session, I expected him to say... That's because he knows it, and I'm the last speaker now, so then how good that sounds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if my colleague Milanovic were here, he would certainly take advantage of the opportunity to say something like that to some sensation of a dead or living language. I won't be long. I was told to cut as short as possible, so almost at least I could tell you some observations about the proposal for this textbook law. It doesn't matter, but there are some things I'd like to mention in front of this impressive gathering. One specific and serious thing. It's about textbooks that are for primary and secondary education. In high school, at least I didn't see it in the text, it was mentioned specifically that and there is professional secondary education, music schools, art schools that have some of their specificities in all of this together. I would also point out one thing, especially interesting in relation to the context of what counterpart Frano Matušić said about the need to go to concerts in order to get a musical education. I'd tell him, I went to music school, I went to music school for eight years, I was a lost cause when they realized I didn't want to be a concert master. I think the music school is good, so a man gets one musical education and becomes a consummation of music. So, in music education, and also in the classical high school that I attended, I had the same musical education, even solffegio, and that esfa taffee, I don't know how much you learned about it, writing notes which I think is extremely important for the formation of a man at his later age, including a compliment that... It seems to me that the law should talk a little more about the specificities of some professional high schools that are not highlighted here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All the other things I could say with a coffee note, but something that's very important, what this law can't simply predict, but it would be good to think about. The textbook is only one element. Mathematically, it would be a necessary condition to satisfy the equation, but one that is still needed to be sufficient. That's right next to the textbooks, teachers who pass on these knowledge and many teachers who know little know how to pass on knowledge. You've got teachers who don't know much, and they're great at carrying knowledge. I was lucky to have had professors all the way from Greek, six years I've studied Greek, I don't know how much I know this Greek today, but it's a basis for a lot of other things that Greek itself doesn't have to do with it. But the muse, as we called it, how much from the Greek literature that we had to officially translate to us, passed on values for life or Latin, I think they're extremely valuable things when we talk about textbooks. And the last thing I'm going to mention, which seems important to me, but I won't say it until the end, because it refers to something my colleague Stazic said after I left the assembly today, so I'll tell him when he does. And as for article 4 of this, it wasn't a debate about this when he said it, but it does refer to article 4 of this law where it says what it's supposed to be like, so when it does, I'm going to use some other discussion to replicate it through the form of that other debate. And the question, even though I know what curiculum means, and is there a replacement Croatian word instead of a curiculum? Don't even get into the corn and stuff. If it's possible to replace the curricula. What? ... To replace something that would already in itself be educational, because this also leads us to a path that we do not want as many aliens as possible to enter our language and is not necessary. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So... Oh, my God, thank God. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44485	Comrade Roshin, this is what I would say if he were in a language spoken by the boss of one... that you're... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you're not because there's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But there's also the last words of the lady. Replica one, first Mr. Frano Matušić, musical replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44486	It's a musical replica. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Roshin rightly said it was a question of musical education and a question of general culture, but I would say not only of general culture. Not just a common culture, and I'd say at least a common culture. Why? First of all, the latest scientific knowledge makes it very clear that the work of art, especially music, is that it develops certain parts of the brain and some parts of our system that otherwise cannot develop in any other way. So let's say in the book "Mozart Effect" it is clearly scientifically proven how music, Mozart's music influences individual development. How it develops special abilities, perceptions, and everything else about the development of a child and something that is irreparable and that cannot be developed in any other way. I'm just going to give an example of a person who's had a speech problem, a person who's stuttering. That same person who has a speech problem, when he sings, he doesn't have that problem. So quite the other parts of the brain are working, and quite the other parts of the brain are developing through art. And I'm just gonna wrap it up for a little while. One of Kurt Masur's top authorities recently held in the Council of Europe a debate on art education, which came to the debate. It's one of today's biggest conductors, otherwise conductors and the Dresden Orchestra and the New York Philharmonics, etc. He clearly said that without music, there was no creativity. And let's imagine how much music works in our lives every day. Let's just imagine what a world without music would look like. It is simple and unimaginable, I think today there is no music, first music even in some spheres we may not even notice. From when we hear sounds in nature, etc., natural sounds, to folk music. Now we're not going into any different areas. But the unimaginable is simply a man's life without music is unimaginable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44487	Yeah, that's how Cicero stopped stuttering when he was walking along the sea wave music. That's what his friends used to say from fellow Luke. Is it a musical response, a musical replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44488	Listen, if he can't go home to me last then at least try to be the last one here. I couldn't agree more on what Frane said and Frane explained to me why I'm so smart and bright, because I've been doing music for a long time. I've been a member of the composer's society since '62. So that's what makes me so important. But I would further expand his theme, with music absolutely going and dancing, and it is only with dancing, music with dancing, or movement that makes the full of possible human expression. So it reminded me that the theme of dance and ballet, or rhythmic movement in anything, was very important. But also something that is not mentioned, and embedded in all that together, including art is mathematics. Mathematics is also a base for musical expression, for visual expression, for stage expression of any kind etc. Thank you, colleague, for letting me be the last. If it's you, then I'll have to answer to her, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44489	At first there was a movement, not a word. And this if math could comment, but I can't come from this place. It's something from Isaac Newton, a lady from Florence. And another replica of Ms. Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44490	As far as this debate is concerned, I think it was a thought at first, but let's get back to the discussion of our colleagues. In your debate, you mentioned very well teachers and teachers who are really the only one, the necessary condition to actually achieve the objective of teaching and you warned in your debate about the importance of continuous professional training. I wouldn't say schooling because they're educated people, but they're just professional training. I'm sorry you didn't say it that way when we were bringing in the state budget because in this year as well as the past few in a row, a means of perfecting teachers and theirs to say better walking in the course of what is happening in modern science we simply stop or reduce from year to year. About the idea of girlculum, and here I am, if I remember I'll bring it to you tomorrow, when the first book called "Curiculum" was published in Croatia, which was translated by Colin Marsh, then the late professor. Ladan made a little expertise, in fact, the concept of "ceculum" and its justification in Croatian where he proved that he was actually within our didactic science or methodical to "terminus technicus" and that it is not even necessary to translate it into Croatian as well as numerous other professional terms, but I say if I remember tonight I will take it from home so tomorrow I will bring you to get all the expertise. We've had unfortunate attempts at translation, guy... So we got words in the male and female background that don't mean the same thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The female family of the noun is a first-grader, not a first-grader, and we have so many difficulties in these translations, and then it can better stick to professional terms that may not mean much to the general public, but to the professional public.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44491	Replication response, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44492	First of all, I'm afraid I didn't talk to you like this when it came to talking about budgets and resources. When we're talking about the budget, then if you're going to add someone else, you have to take them away, if you're going to have them locked up, then you can't add a lot of grain to someone if you don't want to take out some grains. As far as the budget is concerned, and as for my engagement in the budget at the time, I was in Strasbourg defending the colors of the Croatian national team in the EU Parliament. I was close to that Court of Justice and so on, but I couldn't. Maybe you would have been and represented those thesis if someone had turned my attention to it. As far as the girl is concerned, the girlcullum will often be used as a résumé as a CV, although we could say a simple résumé but we're talking girlculum vitae to understand someone else, to create as well as through English and earlier mention some international part. I only expressed my affection for the advantages of Croatian expression if possible, if we are not able to find adequate and that is an adequate clean Croatian word, the appropriate word then we will use what we have. I hope no one's replicated it again. Mine's the last one, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44493	It's your last. The last one is so far, and the last one will be on behalf of the SDP club Mrs. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44494	Exactly, Mr. Vice President, I hope, however, that the last one will be the minister to look back at this afternoon's debate. Here's just a few sentences at the end of a pretty long debate. First, on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to actually thank Mr. Minister for being here for this whole debate, which seems to us to be a good one, but a whole new practice from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, because for the past six years, the minister has not even been here at the current morning, let alone to defend the laws he has proposed. And we hope that such a, perhaps new practice, will continue in the creation of a second reading of this bill and that indeed what SDP MPs and MPs said in their individual discussions and in the introduction of me when I spoke on behalf of the club will find their true... and in the final text of the bill. What we've been saying so far and what the law says we've looked back on in our discussions, which we think we're talking about, but we haven't talked about what the law doesn't have, and the law needs to be. Just let me just now in the closing word 4 things, or 4 of our proposals that should be added to the law. First, the introduction of quality control textbooks, its experimental checks before the final decision on the use and occasional evaluation in relation to the desired outcomes of education according to the girls' principles. Secondly, some MPs and MPs have already said this, we propose to include in the final draft legislation an article that prohibits donations from school publishers. We regret that the majority party here in the Parliament disagrees in most cases, but here we are glad to hear voices from HDZ that support it. Thirdly, there are a lot of inconsistencies in the bill's proposal and not sufficiently clear deadlines, so it is necessary to set specific deadlines for the processes in order to say the evaluation of textbooks in that previous procedure by the second reading. And fourthly, in the SDP's view, we should be included in the law in criminal provisions for responsible persons in the state administration because so far, not even a year of deadlines have been respected by persons from the ministry. Every time it was late, not a little, a day or two, but for weeks and months with a job that was to be carried out by the ministry, which then resulted in the whole application of the law itself, the whole problematic application of the law. I know that it is not usual to introduce criminal provisions for responsible persons in the ministry and that people in the ministry should respond in a significantly different way, but given what has happened in recent years, it seems to us the only way. And I have one proposal, given that great expectations from the teaching standard, many MPs and MPs, as well as representatives of the ministry themselves in their debate, have made a lot of calls for a textbook standard and that many really difficult things will be solved by a textbook standard. We have had so far in history since 2001 2 textbook standards, one was passed around in 2002, the other in 2006. They were quite similar with similar intentions or similar content as this one is now, but neither of them fulfilled their purpose. Given the expectations of standards and that in fact many promises of the day in this debate will actually have their... only in the teaching standard we propose that together with the other reading of the law the representatives of the ministry or somewhere behind the process directly, or before the adoption of the final teaching standard as we did in 2006 and 2001 when we adopted those previous 2 textbook standards. The minister's training standard is notified if nothing else then the home Board of Education in some way to conduct another discussion there, to see if those intentions that the Parliament had in law-making have their own... to the textbook standard itself. I've already said it several times, that's what our MPs and SDP deputies said, we're not going to support this bill. We agree that there are a lot of problems here, and we agree that these problems need to be solved. However, between what has been declared a problem and how it will be resolved and what is written in the law itself, there is a pretty big gap, and as we said we have no reason to believe that the fifth happiness in the ministry will burn, it is simply too expensive a game to guarantee it. Here we have made our remarks in the hope that they will be respected, and then perhaps in a different way we will discuss and vote in this law in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44495	Thank you. And you see, however, it will be true that the president of one party says "prior tempora, potior iura". 5 minutes Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44496	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues, especially their HDZ colleagues, who unanimously decided that on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would be the one with the support of the coalition partner to be the one to hold the last letter in this. I would like first of all to commend the proposal, especially when it comes to first reading which does not have a lot of objections and all things can be crushed further. So are very good and the intentions that are inside... entered. Much has been diagnosed with the basis that things could happen in a much better way in the future. I am pleased to hear a particular story that the minister said in his presentation that the weight of the carrying bag will be reduced. In the afternoon he was the father of one child, and he said that the weight of that bag is one third of the weight of the child, which is a great burden if he had his weight. Imagine wearing a bag of cement or lime on your shoulders to make that happen, and the weights would be good if we cut a little bit more. I'm in any case a generation who inherited books of 4.5 years before that. Although we inherited at that time and the pants and shoes that lasted. But in any case, the books haven't changed. Some knowledge lasted, especially those knowledge when it comes to mathematics, because I think the square point of the circle is the subject of eternal, hypothetical, pitagoric knowledge that doesn't change independently about it. Politically, some frameworks change, some borders change, some countries' names change, so there will be some more frequent things. But in some laws that are physically, mathematically exact permanent to know forever, we don't think that's gonna have to be repeated. But when we talk about the repetition of fellow Shimac, it's gone,...as if I were telling her from behind, I wouldn't want to, so you tell her. She said she deserved a unit. We used to have him at school when someone dropped class, repeats him. I guess she thought we had to win the term of office once again. I don't think so, 'cause when you say it again when you're a repeater, it's again. So when my wife makes me a good cake, let's throw her to the correctional room to make that cake one more time. So it's a technique. I'm sorry it's late, so I'm talking maybe in a more relaxed way. But in any case, I think I can say on behalf of HDZ that we welcome the bill and that we believe that until the second reading and final adoption, they'll be stamped in every detail, and I'm at my disposal for my humble knowledge to pass on to you whenever you need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44497	Thank you very much. We have a surprise. National Minority Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44498	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The National Minority Club, of course, welcomes this law. We have excellent cooperation with the ministry. What I would point out is this. There are no provisions in this law that are otherwise contained in the Law on the Breeding and Education of Members of National Minorities, no provisions on publishing and are said to be subject to sublegal acts. I'll be very brief in that regard. And of course I believe in sublaws, because we are members of the coalition. I'm the only member of the coalition here except HDZ. But they would point out that this topic actually deserves to be present in the law itself, and then they would suggest two, actually two alternatives. Either that subject is present in the law or if it is a sublegal act, that this sublaw act should be adopted before it is adopted, at least by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I think it is my turn that a very narrow topic and such a specific theme such as the textbooks of national minorities, be really present in the documents that are present in the laws themselves, or be present in Parliament's decisions. We don't want to agree to the fact that it's only going to be part of sublegal acts, no matter what we trust the ministry. But the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has the right to debate and to give its consent to such a sublegal act. You know that all that's said in the discussion of national minority textbooks is something special, that something that is not relevant and that the touch that has to do with the general topic of textbooks, school textbooks that is small because the number of members of national minorities is small, because there can be no more alternative textbooks, because we usually have textbooks in our schools of national minorities that last a few years for simple reasons why you can't print more textbooks for such a small number of people. So I suggest that it be codified and that it be not only the subject of the ministry's decision but that at least one filter of the Parliament or the legal or filter of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities pass. Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44499	Thank you very much, Mr. Radin. With your kindness, I'd just like to report that I turned around. I wanted to know if the minister was going to take a final look, so in that sense understand my turn and turn towards the minister with clear your kindness. Minister Radovan Fuchs final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44500	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives. At least you who are here in the hall, who obviously care deeply about this law, I thank you for all the constructive proposals, the discussions. Of course, I thank all those who have discussed, interpreted the articles, and apparently they may not have understood them quite to the end, so these discussions went a little astray from what the law actually says. We're going to take a very good look at all this, and we're going to take phonograms, and I'm convinced that in the second reading, we're going to do better work and repair this law. He'll remain his primary intensities. We will seriously consider embezzling a grant ban provision by school publishers. Similarly, we will coordinate and express when it comes to people with disabilities or persons with special needs. We're going to explain a little bit what that 25% means in case the direct contract orders textbooks, for example, for railways that have, say, one fifty, and then there's no interest in any publisher who would possibly print such a book, so that the price can be determined in a way that the price of printing is increased by 25% and that's not enormous profits. We will also consider these suggestions when there is a reasoned need here to perhaps define clearer and tighter textbooks that will be for the needs of national minorities. I think you'll get very soon, very soon, and here we are all the time listening to a little larger number from the ministry, so we've written everything down neatly, and we'll read it very carefully, and very soon you'll get a new text of the law that will certainly be better, and I believe that then the left side, on my left, will agree with the new text of the law, because I think it's in everyone's interest to get one quality Law on textbooks and curricula and curricula and curriculas and curriculas, or whatever you want to discuss it will probably be very much more and until this key document is worth teaching plans and programs and it's written in this law and it's written in the textbooks. But believe me, if we wait for all the documents that are needed and that need to be passed, then the Bookbook Act will see the light of day I don't know what time and I don't think this anarchy and verse on the textbook market is good for anyone, not for parents, not for students, not for the state, not for society at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44501	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm glad you said you weren't a predecessor. Tomorrow continues at 9.30 p.m. with a vote on the debated items of the agenda, in particular the Labour Act and after the vote of the debate on the final draft law on electronic media.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-03-0.u44502	Six. Proposal for a law on textbooks for elementary and high school, first reading, P.Z. No. 474. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools is adopted; 2. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get involved and vote for these conclusions. ... It's not gonna happen, it looks like it's gotten a little bit back. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I propose conclusions 1 and 2 on the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools because it is the first reading. Who's to suggest the conclusions please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that the conclusions or conclusion were accepted by a majority vote with 78 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Now make a few choices and appointments, then supplement the agenda. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, Ms. Nevenko Majdenic. Here you go.
