ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35717	I wish everyone a good day. We're starting today's agenda. - Final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA programme – a component of transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2008, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 388 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Revered Zvonimir Savir, deputy secretary of state at the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35718	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Allow me to present in a few introductory information the chronological activities that led to the signing of this agreement and the preparation of the law on its implementation. 27 August9 for 2007 The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concluded a framework agreement on rules for cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia in implementing aid under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, so-called IPAs confirmed by the Croatian Parliament on 3 October 2007 and set out general rules for the cooperation and implementation of European Community assistance under the IPA programme. On 5 November 2008, the Commission adopted the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA component programme, entitled "Help in transition and strengthening institutions for the 2008 programming year.". The short name of this component is the first component of the IPA pre-accession programme. The draft text of the Funding Agreement was then submitted in April 2009, so this year, a prerequisite for the provision of European Union financial resources under the IPA first component, i.e. the Transition Assistance component and strengthening of the institutions for the 2008 programming year. On the basis of the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the signing of the Agreement on financing on 5 June of this year by Mr Vincent Degert, head of the European Commission delegation to Zagreb, and State Secretary of the Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of the European Union Funds, Mr Hrvoj Dolenec, took place on 14 May this year. The Government's decision at its session of 19 June this year adopted the text of the proposal for a law on the validation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA programme, namely the first component of the Transition Assistance and the strengthening of institutions for the 2008 programming year. What is important to mention is that the European Community's assistance under this first component of the IPA programme for the 2008 programming year is aimed at the following elements, namely strengthening democratic institutions and the rule of law, reforming state administration, implementing economic reform, respecting human and minority rights, promoting gender equality, maintaining civil society development, improving regional cooperation, reconciliation, restoration and sustainable development and poverty reduction. It is important to mention that the assistance of the European Community is also aimed at the adoption and implementation of the entire acquis of the European Union and, in particular, at preparing the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the European Community's agricultural and cohesion policy. What is important is that the financial resources available to the Republic of Croatia and within the IPA programme are, therefore, this first component of 41.37m euros in contributions from the European Union budget and a total of 17 approved project proposals by the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. The financing agreement itself does not require the adoption of new or amending existing laws, however, this agreement, or the adoption of a law on it, financially obliges the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I must also mention the financial amounts related to this issue. Therefore, law enforcement, this law requires the provision of additional financial resources in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore important to mention that the total value of this programme is therefore the first component of the IPA program to assist in the transition and strengthening of institutions for 2008 to be 376 million 45 000 and 467 kuna. The value provided for by the European Union's Gift to the Republic of Croatia is 306 million 167 thousand and 600 kuna, so the amount of grants planned while the rest of the amount will be provided by the authorities of the state administration in their budgets. The total value of this co-financing that the state authorities need to anticipate in their budgets is 69 million 877 thousand 867 kuna. The co-financing costs are entered into the regular appropriations of a single body of the state administration and what is important to mention is that this agreement also contributes significantly to the overall accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The basis for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is found in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and other particularly justified state reasons. It is important to mention that, given that this Funding Agreement is in force on the day on which the European Commission receives written notice that the internal conditions of the Republic of Croatia for its entry into force have been met. This means that before that these projects cannot be implemented, so these projects, which will be financed by this Funding Agreement, cannot be launched. For these reasons, there is a legitimate interest in its entry into force as soon as possible. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35719	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. We have one reported. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35720	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed representatives of the Central State Office, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since 2007, Croatia has used the IPA programme, and the programme has replaced three previous programmes intended to support candidate countries and countries potential candidates for membership in the European Union. The programme itself was divided into five parts or components and we here today talked about the confirmation of the financing agreement for the component one that covers to the greatest extent what the PHAR had previously funded. This financial agreement is worth a total of 376 million, 45 thousand and 467 kuna, which is important to highlight 81.4% of EU funds, and as we heard the rest is co-financing from the Croatian budget, which the project users have already foreseen in their budgets. The agreement provides for the financing of 17 projects that support the fulfilment of all three criteria for membership in the European Union. Thus, five projects are planned for the fulfillment of the so-called so-called project. the political criteria among which the two are intended to support judicial reform, one support for public administration reform and one to support the development of civil society while the fifth is aimed at the protection of minorities. In the area of economic criteria, support is provided for the development of selected statistical areas and the largest number of projects, including 11 in the area of taking over the legal property of the European Union. The projects have been chosen by means of a multi-distribution of different criteria and in order to really finance the most important areas and not less important, so that the allocated money is really effectively spent. Finally, although not less important, this project also funds membership fees for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the so-called Community programs. This text also includes certain fuses related to the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to make effective use of the funds provided for in this programme. In this regard, I point out that the description of the situation as set out in the text is, in fact, a year old, that the European Union adopted the part in the autumn of last year, and that in the meantime the Republic of Croatia was accredited for four components of the IPA, that it was handed over so-called the accreditation package for the fifth component as well and that it is at the end and making the so-called maps of times how to go from... controls on ex post. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This translated from a professional jargon means that today, for example, for projects from the first component of the IPA, our contracting and financing agency shall send the documentation to the European Commission's representative office in Zagreb before publication of the tender, and later when we move on to ex-control, individual projects will be monitored later. This is the natural way of learning that our institutions are training to fully manage EU funds later when Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. In view of the importance of this agreement, on the one hand, its financial part, which is significant and, on the other hand, because of the results which will result in the successful implementation of these projects in the long term, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35721	Thank you. Before further discussion, one notice. The 23rd session of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly will be held today on 7 July at 11 am at the Ivan Mažuranica Hall, ground floor, room 84. Thank you. We have one individual application, it's the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakoš, I apologize, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35722	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, although there is not one, you can see, interest in this agreement, that is, in this Law on the validation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the national programme for Croatia under the IPA, the transition assistance component and the strengthening of institutions for 2008, however, I wanted to say only a few notes that this confirmation of this agreement is very important for the Republic of Croatia and especially for the use of the IPA programme, just this first component, as it was said. This implementation of the programme is significant in any case in this section that it will be done according to so-called. the decentralised model, which implies that the institutions responsible for managing the programme, means the administrative or implementing bodies of the Agency, will have certain resources. And what is certainly important is that and the issue of the system, the supervision of these funds should be much better and much better. However, what should certainly be of maximum use and not being exactly what happens in other pre-accession funds, where instead of using funds such as the SAPARD programme or similar to agriculture, we use certain means, national or Croatian, precisely because users are not in a position to develop certain programmes in a quality way, to compete, or compete for such programmes and to withdraw larger funds. It is even worse if the conditions for obtaining national funds are better and better quality than for this one. Therefore, we need to put ourselves in a position to through education and people, and also the institution, specifically in this case, to maintain certain security that we will also use these funds. Let's just say, I would just mention that Osijek-Baranja County, through its regional, development agency, is precisely at the maintenance of certain educational activities on the content of EU programmes and funds, performs constant and seminars and workshops and lectures, the topic is always related to the use and use of these programmes. And in which he tries to create with as many people as possible, with as many of these as possible, and lecturers, but also special participants, in one quality state to use such funds. Normally, this part of the 41.37m euros from the first component that is certainly a significant asset, and in this everything that is listed, it can certainly be spent in quality and used for certain activities that would be necessary as part of this transition assistance, strengthening institutions. We also talk about national minorities, we also talk about social programmes, etc. Therefore, in all of this, and especially what is most important and why we certainly need to use these funds, that these gains of the European Community, or legislation that is so prominent and without which, if we do not agree with it, we will not normally be able to open up, regardless of what happens. It is likely that this part will also open, so the deblockations will stop, but without the quality of compliance of our legislation with European legislation and the adoption of laws as we have recently had the Agricultural Support Act, normally until we agree with European laws that this part will not be able to go into the procedure, i.e. the opening of such chapters. That is why I think it is certainly necessary to confirm this agreement, to pass this law and to move as quickly as possible and as high as possible into realisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35723	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35724	We are going to vote on the debated items of the agenda. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Assistance Programme for Transition and Strengthening of Institutions for 2008. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get on board. We can vote. The result? With 104 votes in favour, 3 abstentions were passed by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35725	We move to the second item of the agenda - Annual Report 2008 of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency Croatia Financial Services Supervisory Agency. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency submitted this report pursuant to Article 21. Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. You received the proposal by mail. The government filed a report. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the report? No, I don't. So I'm opening a hearing right now. Do you think anyone on the board would like to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Goran Maric, chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President-in-Office of the HANFA. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the annual report for 2008 of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency as a home working body at the 35th session held on 30 June 2009. The discussion on the committee praised the report, which detailed and comprehensively presented all segments of the activities of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency in the period 2008. It also praised the contribution of HANFA to the regulation of the capital market, as well as activities related to the implementation of direct supervision of the business of most participants in the domestic capital market. In fact, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency has conducted direct supervision of 20 of the 25 investment companies operating on the domestic capital market. In addition, supervision of the legality of business has also been carried out over investment funds, pension funds, the insurance market, Leasing companies, resulting in the final submission of 65 criminal and 7 criminal applications in 2008. However, in the debate, the head of the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency's administration stressed that unfortunately no one has yet been convicted of established manipulations. After the debate, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion to accept the Annual Report for 2008 of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35727	Thank you. And I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35728	Thank you very much. The importance of the role of HANFA as a supervisory and regulatory body is evident from the strength of the sector it controls, resulting from the total assets of the value in HRK 103 billion. The property, however, fell by 12 billion in 2008 compared to 2007. But that's why the banking sector grew by 26 billion, so the financial sector was 62% higher than the gross domestic product, i.e. after a new GDP account 38% higher than GDP. In 2008, the overall financial sector increased by 14 billion despite the major financial crisis, with a high level of financial potential maintained in the Republic of Croatia. We should thank the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for this to a great extent. The report shows that 20 billion were allocated from open-end investment funds, which dropped the value of the assets by 10 billion, and 10 billion were allocated to the deposits of business banks. That's why there's been the biggest increase in the deposits of business banks in the last eight years for 16 billion kunas. The role of HANFA in the supervisory role, the supervision of the non-bank sector will be clearer to us, and its importance not only for the functioning and stability of the financial sector, but also for the national economy will be even more understandable to us if we analyse the causes of the global financial crisis that has prevailed over the whole world and has certainly not yet exploited its overall capacity of destruction. That is why the duration and final consequences of this modern financial tsunami cannot yet be assessed with certainty. And while the consequences are still waiting for everyone, they are already known as scary, and economic dubiosis is already being expressed in tens of billions of euros, and only in the securities market has lost $13 million. We keep reading and hearing about the causes that led to barbarism, neoliberalist economy and materialistic capitalism showing their darkest side. We have also heard that the causes of manipulation and speculation and abuses and greed and greed and greed and lack of responsibility and embezzlement and fraud and shameless and unscrupulous lust for wealth and ignorance are complicated ambitious financial management. But a little less is said to be the main cause of this most powerful economic earthquake in history is actually the lack of a timely and quality system of surveillance. In the non-banking sector in the Republic of Croatia, HANFA has had extensive, complex and socially responsible tasks since its draft 2006. This best supports the fact that HANFA oversees 250 supervisory entities including brokerage companies, pension and investment funds, insurance companies, Leasing companies, factoring intermediaries and insurance representatives but successfully conducts joint supervision of banks in the part of investment banking together with the Croatian National Bank. During 2008, HANFA developed the most comprehensive Capital Market Act, which includes 15 Directives and 3 of the European Union Regulation, and developed amendments and additions to the Insurance Act and thus obtained the conditions for closing the negotiating chapter 9. - Financial services. On the basis of the Capital Market Act, the Fund for the Protection of Investors on the Capital Market has also been operational in the event of fraud. HANFA's outstanding contribution was also to prevent money laundering, as it published indicators and aligned the reporting with the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. HANFA has responded enormously to the culmination of the global financial crisis, and already in October of last year in order to protect the assets, together with the largest investment and pension funds, established an intervention fund worth 150 million kuna. Mostly due to the level of professional surveillance of HANFA so far, the fund has not been activated. At the same time, HANFA also ordered recapitalisations as a result of professional supervisory and potential risk management, and during 2008, insurance companies increased the underlying capital by nearly 500 million kuna and, of course, it was a major step, and reflected positively on indicators of the adequateness and insolvency of companies. In particular, it should be pointed out that in 2008 under the supervision of HANFA without any excess in the process of taking over INA was paid to shareholders 6.2 billion kuna. It is to be assumed that the behaviour of the participants in the process was significantly affected by the control of the HANFA of the sale of Pliva in which HANFA established the illegal and illegal behaviour of many participants, and it was professionally acted against those who abused the position of holders of privileged information, but also against those who illegally concluded agreements on the purchase of Pliva shares for Actavis Group. It encourages the consistent conduct of HANFA in the case of 7 law offenders, and in 2008 it filed as many as 65 criminal and 7 criminal charges, while from 2006 to 2008, it totalled 319 criminal and 29 criminal charges. It should certainly be pointed out that the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary have not consistently followed the work of HANFA and that no judicial verdict has been reached so far. In 2008 HANFA showed social responsibility and a special campaign you have the right to know which she spent all year with the purpose of meeting financial services users with the benefits and risks of financial products. In addition, it is also the work of HTV, for this purpose the HANFA has printed two brochures on the capital market and insurance that are free of charge throughout the Republic of Croatia. Croatia had already paid dearly once and overpaid the lack of proper quality controls in the late 1990s when the bank failed in order, and reportedly stated that the banking system was stable and that mild macro-economic disorders could be tolerated. In 2008, HANFA also had a large-scale activity. It has received 21 requests for the approval of prospectuses on the issue of private offerings, two requests for the approval of a prospectus on the issue of public offerings and has positively resolved all requests. In 2008, HANFA granted 4 bonds to public offerings totalling 100 million kuna, while commercial records were issued by 18 companies totalling a billion and 568 million 672 thousand kuna. During 2008 HANFA approved 26 new open investment companies and 15 in public and 11 in private. In 2008, 4 new companies were granted a licence for the insurance activity, so in 2008, there were 27 insurance and reinsurance companies in the Croatian insurance market with a total capital amount of billions and 800 million kuna and total assets of €26.6 billion., a large part of HANFA's work and the supervision of Leasing companies, which were 26 with a total activity of €35.1 billion in 2008. It is important to stress that HANFA is not on the state budget and that with 125 employees it manages to achieve the highest level of professional and effective approach. In 2008, total revenues of 33.1 million kuna, expenditures of HRK 34.6 million were achieved, resulting in a loss of revenue over expenditures of 2 and a half million kuna, but were compensated from the surplus revenue of the previous periods. HANFA has reacted both preventively and timelyly, so we no longer have the situation of some Leasing companies, societies not running business documentation at all as some have done. She also reacted in a timely manner when some investment funds were required to invest 60% of their assets in real estate, and they did not do so but speculatively acted and invested in vault records, commercial records and deposited with business banks, which was contrary to regulations and laws. That is why we can conclude with the satisfaction that HANFA has earned praise for its work and that this is the kind of HANFA we need to build an economy with as little barbarism as possible, and for the economy with as many human faces as possible. The report and the summary of the reports drawn up by HANFA according to the highest methodological and professional standards should be an example of reports to other institutions. So we can say that HANFA has done a great job of surveillance and supervisory, and it should be borne in mind that no one is bad or good, let alone excellent. Thank you very much. The HDZ Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35729	Thank you. We have an individual debate, Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35730	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the HANFA Administration. Therefore, by performing its function, which is the supervision of the financial services of HANFA during 2008, with indirect supervision which it carried out mainly through the delivery of financial reports, it also carried out direct supervision of financial companies, investment funds, pension funds and pension companies, insurance companies, Leasing societies and factoring companies. So it's about 250 entities. The result of the supervision of the legality of the business is as follows. During 2008, HANFA filed a total of 65 criminal and 7 criminal charges for identified irregularities and irregularities in business. However, the fate of these misdemeanors and criminal charges is interesting and not only those, but all those which have been filed in previous years, more precisely in the period than the HANFA drafts. Since its founding, so from 1 January 2006 until the end of 2008. HANFA filed a total of 319 criminal charges and 29 criminal charges. However, until today, nothing has been done or at least this text of the HANFA report shows that anything has been done. In fact, no one was convicted of illegal capital market operations. The president of the HANFA administration explains this lack of any reactions following the reports that the overall capital market-related problem requires high expertise and regular monitoring of the European Union Capital Market Directives, which are in fact rather dynamically changing, are therefore subject to frequent changes. Simplifiedly speaking, responsible institutions, so the State's Attorney's Office and courts understand nothing of this issue or do not know it enough and cannot competently judge or judge on the submitted applications. If so, the question of the purpose of filing these criminal and criminal charges is raised, moreover, the question of the purpose of the existence of the agency itself. Therefore, if there are no sanctions for established capital market manipulations, then the basic function of the HANFA as institutions to control the capital market has indeed been devalued. What is it worth to establish illegality if there are no sanctions? What kind of message is that? I think it's totally unacceptable to find that there are no criminal sanctions or even criminal sanctions because the object of HANFA's supervision is worth over 100 billion kuna. This is also what I am saying in the context of the fact that this global financial crisis that is rocking the world, which has spread into the real sphere, is precisely the result of human greed, i.e. speculative and irresponsible conduct on the financial market. So, HANFA did her job well, we confirm that, but obviously there are still some missing link there so we can say that the huge value of capital is under real control. It is obvious that the matter falls on the weakest link, which is precisely the Croatian judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35731	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35732	Second. Annual report for 2008 of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. "The Annual Report for 2008 of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is accepted." Please, let's get on board. We can vote. The result? I find that with 75 votes in favour, one abstention and 33 against the adopted conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35733	We're moving to the third item of the agenda. This is - The proposal for a decision to adopt the position of the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation as an observer in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights has proposed this decision on the basis of Article 3. The law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States and the Interim Agreement on trade and related matters between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Davor Bozinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me brief you on this item of the agenda and on the reasons for which it has already been included in the debate before the Government at this stage. Therefore, before us is the Government's proposal concerning a decision on Croatia's participation in the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, and for which the adoption of the Assembly in accordance with the procedure gives the Government the conclusion. The area of human rights of interest is not only for Croatia as a country that introduces modern standards in the domestic order, but human rights and respect for them are an area in which every individual in society is interacted. In this context, I would also like to remind myself of the new legislative framework in Croatia for the prevention of discrimination, which is thematic of particular importance for the agency. But before we open a debate on the way Croatia participates in the agency as well as on the role and benefits that we have status in it, I would like to inform you about it itself as well as the ongoing negotiation process between Croatia and the European Union that precedes this government decision and our final accession and international commitment. The European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights is a new institution of the European Union, established in February 2007, and the regulation of the Council of the European Communities has created a transformation of the European Centre for Racism and Intolerance, whose member as observer was the Republic of Croatia. The Regulation lays down the tasks of the Agency in relation to 2 key levels, the institutions of the European Union, of the one part, and the member of the European Union and the candidate country on the other hand. The Agency shall collect, process and publish human rights data in the European Union. During 2009, she published numerous reports on anti-Semitism, children's rights, homophobia and discrimination, especially with respect to minorities and members of the Islamic faith. As close cooperation between the Agency and its members is necessary, the effectiveness of its work rests on the contributions made by the countries in this regard. On the other hand, Member States are supported by the Agency in harmonising legislation with European Union standards, but the Agency's competence extends only to the implementation of human rights which are part of the EU legal system and not to domestic legislation. Its reports also sensitise the public, civil society, but also competent authorities on the current problems of the Union in this area. It is also important to emphasise what the Agency does not do in relation to a member, which is that it does not have jurisdiction over individual violations of human rights, is not a judicial body that makes binding decisions, as well as quasi judicial decisions, not verifying the fulfilment of the obligations of members to the European Union and not addressing the members directly, but does so through the institutions of the European Union. Given that the process of joining the agency is as complex as the procedure, I would point to its main elements. In November 2007, the mission of the Republic of Croatia to the European Communities in Brussels received a request from the European Commission to show interest in the participation of Croatia in the work of the Agency, but to teach its candidate status as an observer. After the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration sent the European Commission a letter of intent of the Stabilisation and Association Council of the European Union and of Croatia in February 2008, it began with a decision to accept the position of the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation as an observer in the work of the Agency, with observations from the Croatian side. After 2009 when her draft was completed, we launched a procedure before the government, as well as the Parliament, which is necessary in view of the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Namely, this is the first decision by the council under which Croatia assumes the international legal obligations otherwise contained in the international contract. The decision must therefore pass the confirmation of the Parliament, i.e. the adoption of the Confirmation Act. However, the additional complexity stems from the fact that it is already at the decision-making stage before the Government that the Parliament is equally involved because the adoption is conditional on its conclusion, and the next is this debate today. In this way and before the Confirmation Act, the Assembly has additional control over the Council's decision, and in this context, today's conclusion would have a special weight. In conclusion, and the Government's decision to accept Croatia's position on participation as an observer in the Agency's work by diplomatic means, we would inform the European Union of the procedure that will create assumptions that the Council will now make its decision in the draft, which we would carry out in accordance with the certification procedure. Therefore, we are expected to discuss this important initiative in this House in autumn. As regards the content of the Council's decision, it regulates the status of the Republic of Croatia as observers, as well as the obligations made for us on the basis of the Agency's mission. In Croatia, the agency can deal with human rights to the extent to which it belongs in the implementation of European Union law and in which it is necessary to bring our legislation in line with European Union law. To that end, the Agency may collect and comparatively compare, include data in annual and thematic reports, and recommendations, as well as carry out research and expert studies. Croatia also commits to payment of membership fees and appointment of persons on the board of directors, as well as liaison officers acting in accordance with the function of observers. On the legal side, regulation of the status of the agency in Croatia, and the privileges and immunities of the staff when working in Croatia, as well as the possibility of hiring Croatian citizens. Therefore, as regards the financial effects and benefits that Croatia has from membership, the Agency should say that, after the adoption of the Confirmation Act, financial obligations will arise according to the established annual dynamics. According to SDURF, membership fees will be co-financed by IPA funds for 2009 amounting to 85% of the total amount of membership fee, up to 80% for 2010, while for other years IPA financing will be decided subsequently. For the first three years of membership, a contribution of 180,000 euros per year has been set, while for the next two, the amount has been increased to 205,000 euros per year. In the first year the membership fee will be paid on the basis of... depending on the start of the work of Croatia's membership in the agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With regard to possible benefits, it should be pointed out that Croatia will receive support in the gradual alignment of human rights rules with the acquis of the European Union. In addition to this teaching at the observation status at the former European Centre for racism and intolerance as well as on membership in the Council of Europe, and activities in the negotiation process for membership, participation in the Agency is a further confirmation of Croatia's continuity in the preservation and improvement of human rights standards. It is also expected that through appointed representatives in the agency we will professionally contribute to the Agency's work to combat human rights violations and to strengthen their protection. Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me, ultimately, to propose to the Parliament that the proposal for a Decision adopting the position of the Republic of Croatia on the participation of Croatia as an observer in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, and to refer it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35735	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. We have one application for the club. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. As a candidate country for membership in the European Union, the Republic of Croatia, under special conditions, has the possibility of participating in the work of the European Union agencies. This possibility for candidate countries was introduced by the Luxembourg Council Decision. One of the youngest such agencies is exactly the Fundamental Rights Agency. The agency was founded on 1 March 2007 and is based in Vienna, followed by the work of the European Centre for the Control of Rasism and Xenophobia. According to Eurobarometer research, the area of fundamental rights is one of those which citizens of the European Union in all Member States hold one of the most important values for them personally. It is no wonder, therefore, that the institutions of the European Union have decided to base the Fundamental Rights Agency as an institution that will deal with all fundamental rights, not as was the case with the aforementioned centre, only the issues of racism and xenophobia. The Agency's tasks are to collect and disseminate information related to human rights protection, human rights reporting, and to report on specific aspects of respect for human rights, scientific research, and to strengthen co-operation with NGOs in the fields of protection of human rights. It is important to stress that the agency does not deal with individual human rights issues, nor does it make binding decisions. Its function is primarily consultative in order to assist Member States and institutions of the European Union, where appropriate, in the areas entrusted to it, in the implementation or adoption of fundamental rights legislation. And the reason for the existence of such an institution is clear whether there is a very complex network of legal texts, case law, opinions and reports in the field of fundamental rights. Taking into account only the territory of the European Union, 27 different national legal cultures, 20 contracts based on international law, and a number of national and international institutions active in the field of human rights should be added to this network. The Agency is tasked exclusively on a professional basis to assist European institutions and members by providing its expertise and by enabling enhanced dialogue with various stakeholders, thus increasing transparency and improving the relations of the European Union and its institutions with the public. In accordance with Council provisions 168 since 2007, the Agency's area of action is 27 Member States, and the possibility of involving candidates in its work as observers is open. This is precisely the basis which the Republic of Croatia as a candidate country and the countries that asked for membership negotiations in the European Union to be included in the work of the Fundamental Rights Agency. This will enable Croatia to learn on the one hand about the way the agency works, as part of its preparation for operation once it becomes a full member, and on the other hand, will enable the Agency to support the gradual alignment of the rules with the legal acquis of the European Union. This applies primarily to the fulfilment of the criteria set out in Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. This decision states that the consent of the Government and its representatives in the Stabilisation and Association Council to agree with partners from the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia as observers in the work of the Agency. Since participation in the Agency's work will be a confirmation of Croatia's continuity in the preservation and improvement of human rights standards, and will further contribute to the application of the highest democratic standards in this important area, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35737	No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35738	Third. Proposal for a Decision adopting the position of the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation as an observer in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. "The Proposal for a Decision adopting the position of the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation as an observer in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights is hereby adopted." Please engage, please vote. The result? With 106 votes in favour and one abstention of the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35739	For point 4, 5, we do not have the conditions for discussion, so we move to point 6, which is - The Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across state borders, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 384 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Davor Mrduljas, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35740	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across state borders was adopted in the Finnish city of Espo in 1991. At international level, this Convention provides for an environmental impact assessment procedure at the level of individual procedures. The Republic of Croatia ratified the convention on 19 April 1996 and entered into force on 10 September 1997. This Protocol on the Strategic Environmental Assessment of the ESPO Convention, regulates the environmental impact assessment, plans and programmes at international level and was adopted at an extraordinary session in Kiev on 21 May 2003, during the Ministerial Conference "Environment for Europe". The protocol was signed by 38 states. It has not yet entered into force, because it takes 16 signatures to ratify the protocol. It has been ratified by 10 countries so far, and the European Union did so on 11 November 2008. These, following the ratification of the European Union and the remaining members, have joined the ratification process. The Protocol is in line with the essential provisions of the Council of Ministers Directive 2001/42 EC on environmental impact assessment, specific plans and programmes for the environment, etc. "A strategic impact assessment on the environment." As regards the Republic of Croatia and the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, it should be said that the new Environmental Protection Act adopted in this House and published in the "National Journal" 110/2007. the year, and the implementing rules, means the regulations and regulations of that law that all directives and essential provisions of the protocol have been transposed, that is to say, which is the basis for the implementation of the strategic environmental impact assessment procedure in Croatia, which is in line with the above mentioned documents. You know that we have also adopted a Regulation on informing the participation of the interested public on the strategic assessment of the Regulation on the strategic impact assessment of the plan and programme. These are these broader estimates of what they do for county spatial plans, for example and the like. But what are we going to ratify this for? As part of the negotiation process on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the Croatian side has on several occasions drawn attention to the need for ratification and protocol, which we are doing with this proposal of the Law on Confirmation and Doing, thus allowing all relevant decisions on the adoption of plans and programmes to be made with the knowledge of possible significant cross-border impacts that the plan or a specific programme could have on the environment. Here's so much in the shortest lines of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35741	Thank you. Do the board representatives want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the esteemed representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35742	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly discussed at a joint session held on 2 July 2009 the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment over State Borders with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 19 June 2009, with a proposal to comply with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Committee on Environmental Protection, based on Rule 84a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, discussed the proposed law as a home working body. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment was adopted as a Protocol with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the state borders in 2003 and has been signed by 38 countries so far. The ratification of this Protocol is important for the development of procedural instruments, the implementation of the strategic assessment process of the impact of plans and programmes on the environment across national borders, and the harmonisation and improvement of the implementation of the strategic assessment process. Its application enables the adoption of relevant decisions on the adoption of a plan and programme with prior knowledge of the potential significant cross-border impact of the implementation of salaries or programmes. This Protocol shall enter into force on the 90th day from the date on which the 16th instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession has been laid down and 10 countries and the European Community have ratified it so far from 16th time. The Republic of Croatia signed the protocol on 23 May 2003 in Kiev. The proposer also gave a brief overview of the legislative regulation of the Republic of Croatia in the part in which the strategic assessment of the impact of the plans and programmes on the environment and the issues of cross-border impact of the plans, programmes, procedures and facilities was regulated. The debate requested further clarifications of the party definition in Article 2 and the scope of the environmental strategic assessment for plans and programmes related to Appendix 2. It is also indicated that the pollution of neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina is especially the Refinery of the Bosnian Ship and the impact of the project's realisation of the Upper Horizons on the Neretva Valley. In this context, the proposaler's representative noted that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a signator of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment beyond national borders. At the level of the state of South East Europe, the Republic of Croatia is a signator of a special Cooperation Treaty on cross-border influences in the assessment of environmental impacts with non-ESPO countries, but Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a signator of the treaty. In view of the major impact of the implementation of the project, the upper horizons on the Neretva valley, the committees decided to request full written information from the competent Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy in that project. After the debate was held, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across national borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35743	Thank you. Now it's on behalf of the club, the Honorable Representative, Jerko Roshin, of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go. ... For an individual discussion later. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, you have together this is a report by the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Thank you very much. So then you know it's common. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. First, on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy. She's gone. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35744	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The HSS Representatives Club will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment of Cross-State Borders. We need to point out that we at the club talked very closely about this protocol. As the Secretary of State mentioned, the ratification of the Protocol is a request from the European Union in the chapter – Environmental Protection in the framework of accession negotiations for compliance with the acquis of the European Union. In the context of this negotiation process, in fact, Croatia has been drawn attention to the need for ratification of this Protocol because the ratification of the Protocol will allow for the international level of harmonisation and improvement of the implementation of the strategic assessment process and, of course, enable the relevant decisions on the adoption of the plan and the programme to be made with the knowledge of possible significant cross-border impacts that the plan or programme could have on the environment. The European Union is a signator of the Protocol while the Member States are in the process of ratification of the Protocol. As it could be heard, it was signed by 38 countries, ratified by only 10 and what I must mention and what worries us is that no country next door to Croatia has ratified it and the protocol will come into effect when it is ratified by 16 members and when it is deposited in the United Nations. The elements of the convention itself were incorporated into Croatian legislation through the Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation, and the State Secretary spoke of it in more detail so that I have no need to repeat it. However, regarding this debate, I would like to warn again about the problems that Croatia is often faced with because it is happening that our neighbours do not respect the ESPO Convention, regardless of whether they have ratified it or whether some neighbours have not joined the Convention, so in their procedures in space and the environment which will have a cross-border impact on Croatia do not inform us at all. We in HSS have repeatedly expressed opposition or opposition to the construction of the Novo Vira Hydropower Plant and if we objectively talk about this project, it is certain that Croatia must speak to its neighbours in Croatia and that our neighbours, Hungarians, have vetoed the construction of the Novo Vira Hydropower Plant, although we ourselves as a state have had enough arguments to withdraw such a single proposal. What is significant from this example and from a series of examples that I will indicate is that Croatia respects both the ESPO Convention and the documents arising from this ESPO Convention and that it is, of course, a correct neighbour. That is why we expect our neighbours to behave in accordance with customs and conventions that are signatories. In addition to this example mentioned by Hidroelectrica Novo Virje, Croatia applied the ESPO Convention in many other important projects, when it comes to the Plovani quarry in Bujam, the same convention was applied to Slovenia. The Hungary-Beli Manastir-Osjek highway, the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, has therefore been applied to the EPO Convention towards Hungary. The state road of the river Rupa we have applied the convention towards Slovenia. The Marica and Katarina gas fields with their respective pipelines have been discussed with Italy. The gasfield of Ivan... The gas pipelines, we spoke to Italy again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] State road Dragonja Buje, we spoke with Slovenia. The rash to defend large waters Varazdin Svibovec We spoke with Slovenia. On the other hand, Slovenia is building hydropower plants on the Sava without consulting Croatia, it is clear that such procedures have a direct impact on Croatia, especially on Zagreb and then I must mention it especially on Sisak-Moslavina County and in this context the Lonjsko polje, which is a particularly important wetland habitat. Let us also remember last year's tragedy that occurred during a rafting on the Sava on the still not completed dam of the Blanca hydropower plant near Krško in Slovenia, in which unfortunately 13 people died and then the question was raised how it was possible for such a hydropower plant to be built on the border with Croatia and that Croatia was not included in the process of assessing the cross-border impact on the environment, regardless of how both countries and Croatia and Slovenia ratified the ESPO Convention. In the many debates that we often have with our Slovenian neighbours around the border around the Piran Bay, it seems that the Sava River has just remained in the second plan, and then I do not notice any great interest in what Slovenians are building hydropower plants and what is currently being prepared urban documentation for the construction of two new hydropower plants two last in a series of stream power plants on the Sava River towards the border with Croatia. Of course, it is necessary to examine whether or not someone predicted that construction works planned for future hydropower plants would be reflected, for example, on Krško’s nuclear power plant and the safety of floods in the lower flow of Sava i.e. in Croatia. The Slovenians should certainly coordinate their plans with us and take care of road, rail, tourist infrastructure in the Sava Basin, if they did not do so at the end of the day that Croatia as a party to the ESPO Convention itself is interested in this and is asking for inclusion in the process of assessing the cross-border environmental impact as we did when, for example, it was an actual case with a nuclear power plant in Hungary which Hungary did not inform us about, but it was learned through NGOs from Austria and then Croatia intervened. Speaking of the Sava River, what we have an obligation here is to mention the question of the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, which is increasingly burdening the Sava River but which is a serious problem for air quality and for the population in Brod-Posavina County. I believe that this problem should be dealt with urgently, here is the secretary of state who is familiar with all the details, and I personally as the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental Protection attended a bilateral meeting between the Head of the Brod-Posavina County and, of course, representatives of the municipalities that are on the other side of our border, there were representatives of the refinery in the Bosnian ship, unfortunately they do not have much understanding of what they really influence the population of Brod-Posavina County and Croatia. They are mainly after profit and apparently with all our diplomatic activities it turns out that Croatia is powerless in these relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. specifically here with the Republika Srpska. Namely Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a signator of the ESPO Convention on Cross-border Environmental Impact and its representatives have not even signed a multilateral agreement by Southeast European Ministers on the implementation of the Convention. That is why we cannot generally call on this act, but one human effort and lobbying can actually try to solve such problems in mutual communication. I thank here the environmental fund that approved the co-financing and construction of the measuring station, the automatic measuring stations in Slavonski Brod. The Ship-Posavia County took this very seriously because they cared about their population and they also left funds in the budget for it. What saddens me is that unfortunately the town of Slavonski Brod, the funds that were planned for the construction of a measuring station in Slavonski Brod, has been cut out of the budget. So I find it unclear that on the one hand, the mayor of Slavonski Brod collects some petitions and warns about the problem of air pollution, and on the other hand, the money needed to build a measuring station for air quality in Slavonski Brod, which will show us what the real air condition is, that money the mayor of Slavonski Brod has thrown out of the budget and now we lack that money to build an automatic measurement station, regardless of what the Environmental Protection Fund has approved 600 thousand kuna and the Ship-Posavina County has secured another 30,000 kuna. One of the controversial projects is certainly the project of the upper horizons from which Bosnia and Herzegovina or Republika Srpska, which is not a signator of the ESPO convention as I have said, so they are not obliged to include Croatia's cross-border environmental impact assessment. But in any case, through bilateral co-operation between Croatian waters and services in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think that our other ministries should be more actively involved because it is a project that is a mathematical project of building energy facilities, accumulating a tunnel system that would lead from the Neretva Basin into the Tribinjstice River. The water translation from Neretva will certainly cause terrible environmental consequences in the lower course of Neretva and the southern part of Croatia could be left without drinking water. The consequence of this project, its implementation are the disappearance of the reserve... Mud, the destruction of Neretva, which is the vessels of the housewives of the whole region, the drying of several smaller rivers and the conversion of the obsessing and captivating region into the desert, which I do not think the Republic of Croatia should allow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here I appeal, I know that these efforts seem to be made, to achieve bilateral co-operation, and here from this pay phone as a representative in this House, I call on our colleagues from Bosnia and Herzegovina to actively engage in this communication because, despite the great efforts, this communication has been largely unsuccessful so far. I think it is our duty as good neighbours to help them ratify the ESPO Convention and also join this protocol that we are discussing today. This is important for them too, but it is important for us, because I have listed some examples that presently pose a serious problem for both the environment and the space but also for the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35745	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35746	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment, with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across national borders. Therefore, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law attesting the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment over State Borders is contained in Article 139. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across state borders was adopted in the EGF in '91. with a view to determining the obligation of the parties to assess the environmental impact of different procedures at an early stage of their implementation. At the second meeting of the Parties to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across state borders in Sofia 2001, it was decided to prepare a Protocol on the Strategic Environmental Assessment which would be legally binding on all parties to the Convention. The Protocol on the Strategic Environmental Assessment was adopted as a Protocol to the Convention in Kiev in 2003. The protocol signed by 38 countries has not yet entered into force, given that it has so far been ratified by the 10th and European Communities since 16 countries were needed. The Protocol shall enter into force...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35747	Your Honor, I'd like a moment, please. The gallery was joined by the second Vice-President of the Senate of the Kingdom of Spain, his Excellency Juan Jose Lucas Gimenez, who is with us on an official visit, so please welcome him. Welcome to the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35748	Thank you very much. The Protocol shall enter into force on the 90th day following the laying of 16 instruments of ratification with depositaries. The Republic of Croatia signed the 2003 protocol in Kiev. The ratification of this Protocol is important due to the development of procedural instruments of implementation, the strategic impact assessment process of plans and programmes on the environment across national borders. The entry into force of this Protocol is of particular importance for the countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia, resulting from the collapse of the Soviet Union which are not members or candidates for membership in the European Union, since their legislation is not prescribed for the Strategic Environmental Assessment. The ratification of this Protocol is useful in terms of international unification and improvement of the implementation of the strategic assessment process and the creation of a basis for promoting sustainable development through the unification of environmental conditions in the plans and programmes of each area, both at national and international level. This allows relevant decisions on the adoption of the plan and programme to be taken with the knowledge of possible significant cross-border impacts that the plan or programme may have through its implementation. Here are a few words on basic issues that are proposed to be regulated by this law. The Protocol addresses the issues of evaluation of the effects of the plans and programmes of the Member States on the environment, which, of course, constitutes the objective of the Protocol. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The protocol also contains five annexes. As is the first list of procedures for which the framework is made up of plans and programmes for which a strategic assessment is carried out. The Appendix second speaks of a list of all other procedures for which environmental impact assessment is carried out under national legislation, for which the plans and programme for which the strategic environmental impact assessment is carried out. The third Appendix sets out criteria for determining possible significant environmental and human health impacts. The fourth determines the data which make up the content of the Environmental Report and Appendix 5. The data that must be given to the public affected parties are specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35749	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35750	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Unfortunately, in these important topics that are now on the agenda in the Croatian Parliament, there are not many MPs, unfortunately I say, but there is no reason to really not discuss this today, especially on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment and, with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment beyond the State Borders. This across state borders is particularly interesting because the Republic of Croatia has, I say, an interesting form with very, very long border lines with countries around it, countries belonging to one part of the European Union, and yet the other part still belong to countries which, as it is said, belong to the Balkans or the Western Balkans, however you will, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Montenegro, Serbia, and on the other hand we have a border with members of the European Union, Slovenia and Hungary and the sea border with Italy. I'm saying this for the reason that, in fact, someone said here seems to me to be Mrs. Mariana Petir in connection with the Sava River which is here, but there belongs the Una River as a tributary of the Sava River which divides us exactly or borders or I can say connects with Bosnia and Herzegovina. However important this may be for Sisak-Moslavina County, it may be even more crucial and more important for the Brod-Posavina County and other Vukovar-Srijem Countys that extend along the Sava River and the border on the southern Sava River with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and again to the east of Danube with Vojvodina belonging to the Republic of Serbia. What I have just reported for this debate is a specific case that exists in Brod-Posavina County, and it is tied very closely and very specific to, with this ecologically speaking, a set of problems is a refinery in the Bosnian Ship. So on the border line, on the Sava River which is a de facto contaminant and air and the Sava River water. As Sisak has problems with air pollution, with the outdated technology of the Rafinery Sisak, for the Bosnian Ship and their refinery we do not know to what extent and how we have set up measurement stations to measure the quality of air in Slavonski Brod, and citizens are daily protesting and complaining of an unbearable smell, to say asphyxiation in that smoke that flows from the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship. And therefore, in any case, the HDSSB will support the confirmation of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment under the Convention, with the expectation that it will support it and will be one of the lists of both the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, several months ago here in the Parliament was on benches and agreement, a proposal for an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in connection with the cooperation of the border counties, our 9 counties bordering Bosnia and Herzegovina and the 95 municipalities in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina in connection with cooperation in the promotion, therefore, or protection of the environment. So, in ecology, tourism and the economy. Ecology came first in this agreement, and I think it has provided two million and 300 thousand euros in grants. So, the European Union has provided 2 million and 300,000 euros of grants or grants for projects that will, therefore, be unique for 9 Croatian counties and 95 municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina that border, which therefore have a border line between them. I would also like to invite and from this place competent, especially to say in Brod-Posavina County, the City of Slavonski Brod, as well as those across the Sava if they hear and see that a project is finally developed that would have protective measures, filters or what it would already be called that would then be run by both one country and Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina together towards the European Union in order to withdraw some of these funds, all in connection with the quality of air and water that are important, so for the population of this county and the cities that are lying on the Sava River. So, both Broda, the Bosnian Ship and Slavonski Brod and the County of Brod-Posavina where it lives, a total of about 200 and more thousands of inhabitants. For this reason, I welcome this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation and I will agree that the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia sign it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35751	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35752	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. This protocol, the addition to the convention, is good that he came before the Parliament and it's good to adopt him. It imposes an obligation on Croatia and prescribes our behaviour when it comes to procedures or works or actions affecting the environment of our neighbours. However, the convention as a base document for this protocol gives Croatia certain rights, opportunities to protect its interests. For an introduction I remind you somewhere about a year and a half ago, Italy wanted to build a terminal of incinerated gas at the sea at Trieste. The Republic of Slovenia has just used this convention to get directly involved in Italy's intention. And she joined the project as a direct interested party, as a neighbouring country and was all the time present in preparing the project with a great deal of shouting, an absolute consensus in the Slovenian Parliament proving that this terminal or these terminals directly affect the environment in the Slovenian sea, but also on the country. They therefore used the Convention as a legal act to protect their interests in terms of environmental protection. And no one in Europe dared say a word of contempt to the Slovenians for such behaviour. Italy has had severe pains, changes in projects, delays and so long as it has not agreed to everything that Slovenia has asked for the project could not have been launched especially since Slovenia's entry into the European Union. An example of another. The same Republic of Slovenia has made all necessary formal and legal decisions to build 8 hydropower plants on the Mura River. The eighth nearest territory of the Republic of Croatia is only 8 km from the border of St. Martin at the Mura. The decisions of Slovenia were well kept secret until about 2 years ago I raised a question and debate in the Assembly, with one goal only for Croatia to interfere with this intention of Slovenia and it was then answered by the minister that Croatia had requested an environmental impact study of the 8 hydropower plants. And this is the latest information that the Croatian public has involved in Croatia in the project of 8 hydropower plants in Slovenia on Mura. I am now referring to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation on information and participation of the public and the interested public on environmental protection from the "National Journals" 64 of 2008 and asking how our ministry and the following of the Convention and the sequence of this Regulation to Croatia, and above all gave the Međimurje public no information after we asked for an environmental impact study. So, is it adjacent, our good neighbors and friends, did they give us an environmental impact study? What's the result of the study's expertise? What was Zagreb's response in Ljubljana about this? What requirements have been made? And what measures have been requested to minimise the impact, the cross-border impact on the environment, or these procedures on the waterway? I just can't believe that every time we have certain rights to international regulations and acts we set ourselves up and act very shyly so that we don't accidentally object to our neighbors. Is that how we have a lot of problems with them, like they'd say? Why do we not use this convention when it is necessary to protect our interests? Why are we afraid to exercise the rights of this convention, and why, if there were interventions, has the Croatian public not been reported? Why we pay more attention to our obligations for investors and environmental interventions in Croatia's territory, that is, to our neighbours, than we pay attention to what our neighbours are doing, and it has an impact on environmental protection. And besides, did Croatia get involved in the Italian project of the gas terminal at Trieste? If this project has an impact on the environment in Slovenia, there is also in Croatia. I haven't actually heard from the responsible people, and for those in charge, anything in public has been said. But I assure you that the first Croatian attempt to build large such objects as the Krk terminal will be declared a significant environmental impact in Slovenia. It will take advantage of any situation of major energy intervention on Croatia's territory and make our lives miserable. If it is true that the government has made a decision to build a gas terminal on Krk, and it has been announced that it will not be long before Slovenia is declared an interested party. I don't think this kind of behavior and fear of neighbors is good, that it encourages them to act unilaterally and that we need to follow closely what the neighbor did, and it affects the environment in Croatia, as well as what we do, and it affects the environment both in our neighborhood and in our neighborhood. And finally, I can't ask the question, and I can't ask how is it that associations dealing with environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the Republic of Slovenia have not once followed Slovenia's plans, now not plans, but projects in the construction of as many as 8 hydropower plants, how has the PR agency engaged by the Slovenian government managed to pass on all environmental associations in Slovenia and Croatia, and even those who received money from pre-accession European Union funds with the intention of caring for environmental protection? Is it possible that a private PR agency has more influence on these associations and on the Croatian public than this convention that gives you the right, Mr. State Secretary and imposes an obligation to at least inform the Croatian public what we have done regarding the protection of Croatian interests from the Slovenian 8 hydropower plants at the border with Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35753	Thank you. Now it's the honorary representative Vlatko Podnar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I can say that I will support this law for a simple reason because environmental pollution problems in terms of air pollution, which is then manifested through acid rain and forest damage, were relatively and large a few years ago, especially while in our area of today's, or Italy, and then today's Istrian County and Bakar Coxary were a major impact on air pollution. For this reason, there was also a large part of the drying and eating in Gorski Kotar, but also in Lica, which somehow managed to stop the partial drying of the dish by solving the "Plomin" thermal power plant on coal and coke in Bakra. The second thing is that today we have a problem in drying dishes that occur partly and for the reasons that previously occured acidification of soil, but also in part from the construction of the Zagreb-Split highway, highways and frequent climate change, i.e. differences in the multi-year rainfall averages compared to extreme when it comes to drought. What is interesting in this Protocol, i.e. the Convention, and most relevant to forestry is the addition of one paragraph 4, plan 4 paragraph 2, deforestation on large areas. I have to say that in general in Croatia there is a deforestation on, what is now a large area, is it a hectare, what someone thinks, for me is a hectare of great devastation, for someone a thousand acres is a bit of a contraction, so I would ask the secretary of state to explain it a little bit. And also in Appendix 2 where the first deforestation and deforestation are mentioned for the purpose of land reuse. If we've re-purposed the land and we've smudged it then it's already gone to forest land, but the contraction is I repeating whether it's a half a hectare, a hectare, whether it's a thousand acres or so, right? Or it's also possible for the golf course that we know today is the golf course law, so we can do it that way. Furthermore, there are also mentions of quarryes, surface spears, and the extraction of shakes. What if the tremors were created and I know in particular one area of shakes and what is naturally created in the vicinity of Koška and if it is used is a small area, about two three hectares, whether it is also part of that environmental protection assessment and what is going to happen. What we have through the Forest Law and the adoption of forest management plans, means management of the economic unit, then the forest management programme in the private forests or on the karst, then we have under the Forests Act a forest-based area that just covers all these problems and where it is prescribed, it is forbidden to deforestation the forests, but if it happens, if, in the programme or economic basis, it introduces that deforestation is due to the construction of a forest road or the construction of a highway which falls under the second part of the environmental assessment, or means to build a highway, whether we have a public debate on the adoption of forest management programs and... management, because this is also in line with the FSC certificate which Croatia's forests, i.e. Croatian forestry, received for the way it is managed in a sustainable way, according to the sustainability of income and, most importantly, 95% of the forests in Croatia are natural forests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, here I would just so much about these most basic things, if that applies again when we already have regulated laws and legal acts, and sublegal acts, the way to adopt forest-based bases, any area of any economic unit and management programme. I know it's a convention and we can't have that effect on it now, but when the parties meet to warn it and try to define what it means by deforestation, or in what way or new reforestation. The new noise can also be on one hectare, but it can be on a thousand acres. Depending on the financial resources and succeeding. Here's what I'm gonna do, 'cause that's what I wanted to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35755	Thank you very much. Next is the individual debate of the esteemed representative, Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35756	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say right away at the beginning that I absolutely support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Protocols to Strategic Environmental Assessment with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across national borders. Although it would only be said about the ratification of one protocol and one form of conclusion of what began five, six years ago, I think that it should be said for a word, at least because of the Croatian public, and not because of the conditionally said co-option to join this and to vote for it. In fact, the impact on the environment across state borders is evident and present in everyday life, and anything that happens negatively would try to stop. On the one hand, we have some yellow rains on the Adriatic which are the consequences of some sand rising from the Sahara, so it's all come from the Sahara, but as some natural phenomenon that just makes for some aesthetic problem or interesting, possible interesting photography, but we have cases like Chernobyl, one of the first events with negative consequences that showed how negative globalism can be present. So, the ratification of this protocol is an attempt and desire, and in the extreme case, and our task is to join those who want to interact with each other in the neighborhood, and continue to regulate from that neighborhood in a way that we do not act negatively on each other and that everything that would possibly appear in some of our plans negative to inform our neighbours, as we expect our neighbours to inform us. The air as something that is fundamentally right to breathe, to be able to survive, in many cases is not what it should be, not only in the case of Sisak, but also in the environment, the environment of cement factories that have been released too much into the air so far, which has been deposited in the environment, was not only an ugly picture, but also an ugly picture that can only be seen on an X-ray by someone how much these lungs have been contaminated by cement dust, so we are aware at this time of the debate on asbestos and what is being deposited without even knowing that we are lying down. And what it represents is almost I would say the aesthetic question of pollution as it used to be on the Split coast of those sulphur and sulphuric flows that once brought down from the north side of the peninsula to the city's port. So something that is the elemental air that we all have the right to breathe in the quality that is, but which represents one aesthetic component of which one American scientist said is Croatia's beautiful blue black sky, so all the stars are seen when it's clear, there are no contaminants standing in the way. Well, then let me say something that's also another thing in a row of water without which we can't. And we have a lot of water that is highly polluted, and it's polluted somewhere far worse than we are, but during the water flow they came to us. This reminds me of one of the interesting features of a German Law on Factorys and Taking and Dropping Technology Waters. One small provision small but very eloquent that says that the release of technological waters is just above the flow of the river, just above the taking of water. So eventually pollution is first experienced by those who create these contaminants. Ballast waters in the sea what is brought by ballast waters and pollutes the sea or the oil issue of possible accidents at sea or what brings the Po River to the Adriatic. It's not just a question of Italy and it's not just about going through Italian territorial waters. The consequences can also be on our side as the consequences of our side can be in Italian. So the question of that mutual influence on each other exclusively... When we talk about an environmental assessment strategy, then the situation must also be analysed from the point of view not only of some biochemical hazards but also of sound. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The position of an airport has a significant impact on the environment even though the airport is close to some border, then in the neighbourhood over the border these problems are silent, as they feel in Trogir with the airport and insufficient control of charter flights that produce sounds much greater than is allowed. Of course, as we worry about our neighborhood as much as it will affect us, we must be disciplined and sign a protocol like this with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across national borders and in terms of our influence on others. But at this point in our knowledge, we should certainly point out that pollution from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, because Bosnia and Herzegovina is not the one joining this protocol at least not now. Special refinery in the Bosnian Ship, and the impact of the realisation of the Upper Horizon project on the Neretva Valley. At the level of the countries of Southeast Europe, the Republic of Croatia is a signator of a special Cooperation Treaty on cross-border influences in the assessment of environmental impacts with non-ESPO countries. However, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a signator of that contract and I know that it is working and it is good to do so. For the same reason, I support from another ministry, not the ministry represented by Mr Mr. Mrduljas, from the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, that the Upper Horizon project and the impacts on the Neretva Valley should be requested in full and delivered in writing to at least committees dealing with these issues, environmental protection and spatial planning. In any case, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35757	Thank you very much, colleague Roshin. We've exhausted the individual hearing applications. We have an application on behalf of the SDP club for exactly 5 minutes, the esteemed representative of Mrela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35758	Here it is, at the very beginning of the presentation on this proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on Strategic Assessment and Environment with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment beyond the State Borders, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will support the adoption of this law. The Convention itself on Environmental Impact Assessment across state borders, so-called The ESPO Conventions, as well as the related Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment, which we ratify by this law, are extremely important documents because they strengthen the role and meaning of environmental protection in the domestic and international context, and in particular the participation of domestic and international public in the process of environmental and nature decision-making. In this respect, the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across State Borders, i.e. the EPO Convention, which is heading towards strengthening the role and importance of international cooperation and cooperation in the processes of decision-making on projects that have a potentially significant negative impact on the environment, but strengthening domestic mechanisms aimed at protecting the environment, we must welcome and give a positive assessment. I remind the Ministerial Meeting of the Environment for Europe, held in Kiev in May 2003, this Protocol was adopted with the ESPO Convention and this Protocol regulates the issues of impact assessment, plans and programmes on the environment of Member States, and in particular the elements of the procedures for strategic environmental assessment, public participation in the development of plans and programmes, through border consultation and how the plans and programmes are adopted, as well as implementing bodies and provisions for the implementation of the Protocol. In addition to the protocol there are additions, and the most important addition for the protocol is Appendix 1 which regulates the procedures for which it is necessary to draw up plans and programmes for which the strategic environmental assessment is carried out. Since I participated as an employee of the Ministry of Environmental Protection in the organisation of the third meeting of the Convention held in Cavtat in June 2004, I am extremely pleased to have the opportunity to participate today in the ratification process of this Protocol with the ESPO Convention. Cavtatical amendments and additions to the Convention, I find extremely important, as they highlight the importance of linking the ESPO Convention with other multiple foreign agreements in the field of environmental protection, strengthening the instrument of the Convention through bilateral contracts, and extends the contribution of one containing a list of activities involved in the environmental impact assessment process in the cross-border context. In other words, the Cavtatian amendments and additions to the ESPO Convention have been brought into line with the so-called ‘Cavtatian amendments’. The Archduke Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation on Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Affairs, and also allows any State other than a party to the Convention to participate in the work of the body of the Convention which also strengthens the international and regional importance of this Convention. How? By allowing these amendments to countries that are not parties to the Convention to engage in cross-border assessment of the impact of an environmental intervention at an early stage of planning the implementation of such a project, thus having a positive impact on the environmental impact of a project. In the SDP Club, we believe that being a party to this Convention speaks of the maturity and responsibility of the state towards the most important resource of today, and this is a healthy and preserved environment and precisely the following and the facts, and given that the parliamentary procedure has entered into the long-declared Energy Development Strategy of Croatia, we believe it is extremely important that today this bill is spoken of in this context, the context of consistent compliance with the conventions that we ratify in this House. The responsibility and political maturity of a country is not only measured by beautiful international gestures that it is without a doubt supporting these amendments and the additions to the ESPO Convention but also by the real desire of the primarily ruling political elite to fully respect what we ratify. The willingness of the ruling party to do so will be visible very soon if we adopt the Energy Strategy Proposal in Parliament, which is one fundamental strategy and I remind you that this strategy makes a decision, although in some way it is delayed until 2012 on the construction of a nuclear power plant, the project "Adria Society", then the pan-European pipeline or PEOP, the TLG terminal pipeline project on the island of Krk, and all these projects are included in the list of the activities of the law's annexes, as well as the annexes of the I. EspO Convention, which means that the Republic of Croatia, apart from the green light of the local public for the realisation of these in the ecological sense of very potentially dangerous projects, will need green light from the foreign public. In this sense, I really hope that here is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the international public, as well as the domestic public, will again consider the energy strategy, which was ultimately the conclusion of the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Planning, and that it will, in fact, extend the debate on this strategy in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35759	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the entire debate with this. The Proposer has no need for final address. I'm closing this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35760	Fourth. Final proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across national borders. I am voting on the draft decision of the law. Please, let's get on board. We can vote. The result? With 109 votes for unanimously passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35761	We're going to the 7th item of the agenda. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Waste Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 380 The amendment and supplementation of the law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Reports from the board's session have been received. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Joint Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State. Davor Snotty.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35762	Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs. You have before you the Law amending and supplementing the Waste Act with the final draft of the law. The reason why the Government is proposing this law is to implement the government's conclusion that all specific laws must comply with the Law on concessions, so, among other things, we have recently harmonised the Law on Communal Here, here we are now also the last law in the area of the section of this ministry, that is this Waste Act which contains concessions and concession proceedings, and in general the whole question of concessions was to be brought into line with the Law on concessions, which is what this law and seems. In addition to the other application of this law, since all its novels and amendments have been adopted, we have seen certain legal gaps and certain things that should have been filled in and solved by these gaps, thus determining the right of the State to resuscitate high-loaded waste locations and the right of the State in the event of such recovery, the cross-border transport of waste that is in line with the EC Regulation on shipments of waste and we have arranged for one part concerning imports of waste which could only be imported into Croatia for the purpose of material recovery from which the final product or certain raw materials is produced. This occasion was on committees very lively and I would like to thank you for a very constructive debate that we have led on the Committee on Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and where we have improved this text with certain amendments, and even I would like to say and make it legal, and to certain legal gaps, i.e. not legal gaps, rather than better put forward legal recommendations that have been made in the case of certain provisions. And we think that, on the basis of these amendments proposed by this Committee, or a joint session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, as well as other committees which have given their amendments that we have received a very good text of law in that section and that all certain doubts that could arise in the further application of the law have been removed. Here, so much in the shortest lines. I leave you to debate and remain open to your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35763	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Environmental Protection Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? No, I don't. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, together with the Committee on Environmental Protection, is a colleague of Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35764	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction are increasingly holding joint meetings on topics of common interest. This is not only a question of the rationalisation of time and the proposings and parliamentary representatives, but also of why certain topics could be more widely considered, more complexly considered and discussed, and in this way we also discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act with the final proposal of the law, of course in an urgent procedure, first and second reading, so that this report I read on behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection and on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly discussed at a joint session held on 2 July 2009 the draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Act with the final draft law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 19 June 2009, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. On the basis of Article 84a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Environmental Protection discussed the proposed law as a home working body while the Committee on Environmental Protection is based on Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the adoption of amendments and amendments to the Waste Act would comply with the provisions of the Law on concessions. The proposed law allows for the import of retreadable waste into the Republic of Croatia and harmonizes cross-border waste traffic with the EC Regulation on waste shipments for disposal, waste shipments No. 1013./2006. in the part relating to export and transport of non-hazardous waste for disposal. It is estimated that the implementation of the Waste Act and its implementing rules created conditions and secured capacities for imports of materially retreadable waste into the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law also amends the provisions governing the payment procedure for the management of specific categories of waste at the expense of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund by producers and importers of the products from which those wastes originate. In particular, the presentation pointed out that amendments to the law allow the use of valuable waste properties which, if defined as waste and if such ends in the environment, is dangerous while as raw materials can be used in useful material. A series of rules on specific categories of waste allow for the development of entrepreneurs who employ 3, 5, up to 4 000 workers. 3.5 to 4,000 workers. The law also proposed a solution to compensation to the state if it resuscitates sites highly burdened by hazardous waste, and when the pollutant is known but has not implemented the recovery or refuses to execute it. In the follow-up to the opening statement of its observations on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the waste law, the representatives of the Green Action Association submitted. She praised the acceptance of some of the remarks proposed by the Green Action in the process of drawing up draft draft laws. However, she expressed concern about the absence of an explicit ban on imports of hazardous waste that exists under the applicable Waste Act. It also requested that that provision be introduced into this proposal for a law. In the debate on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Waste Act, doubts were expressed that the existing capacity for... waste is not enough for Croatian purposes either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is regrettable that the application of the wage pollutant principle is not highlighted. In an article that regulates the recovery of sites highly burdened by hazardous waste but supported the introduction of a State right to compensation for all the costs of the recovery carried out at its expense. Furthermore, the possibility of importing waste whose useful properties can be used with the aim of developing the economy and increasing the number of jobs has been praised. The further discussion showed further concerns about the possibility of importing dangerous waste and even when it comes to imports for recovery purposes. It is also mentioned that there are no technologies that do not affect the environment and the health of employees at all and expressed concern about the low environmental awareness of entrepreneurs and the insufficient capacity of responsible waste management institutions. In the Committee’s comments, the applicant’s representative replied that there was sufficient capacity to import certain types of waste for recovery and that the principle of pay pollutants was implemented through a series of regulations and that the Regulation on the payment of environmental charges and which burdens the plants that are harmful to the environment was prepared to refer to the procedure. In response to the question of technologies that burden the environment, it is responsible that each activity has an environmental impact but it is important not to burden it beyond the prescribed limits. After the debate was held, the committees voted mostly, the Committee on Environmental Protection with 7 votes in favour and 2 votes abstentions, and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction with 7 votes in favour and 3 abstentions decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act together with the following amendments. Amendment 1 to Article 3: In Article 18a(3), paragraph 7 below adds a sentence which reads as follows: "Recovery costs shall be considered as bankruptcy costs. Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 so far become paragraphs 3, 4. Five and six.". The proposed amendment addresses the issue of state law in the event of a resolution in which certain objections would be avoided and possible damage to the party due to doubtful treatment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.", so far paragraphs 2 and 3 become paragraphs 3 and 4.". This amendment regulates the issue of exceptional imports of hazardous waste for processing in plants that can provide complete recycling to obtain from this waste a new product or raw material that is not waste. Amendment 3 to Article 21, in Article 88(1), point 19, in brackets (the word "and 3" is added from number two). The amendment is the consequence of the proposed amendment to Article 4 which provides for a criminal provision. And finally Amendment 4 to Article 23. Article 23 is amended as follows: "The provisions of Article 18 of this Act apply also to the resolution procedures under way". This provision lays down the right of the State to compensation for the costs of recovery and to the recovery and location procedures of hazardous waste that are under way without feedback. Mr. Vice President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35765	Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35766	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of the presentation on the Amendment Law proposal and the amendments to the Waste Act, I would like to say with the final proposal of the law that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will be abstention when voting on this document. There's a lot of reason for the SDP's abstention, and now I'm going to try to explain what the reasons are. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Competent Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction decided, as well as many times before, to disregard the roof environmental protection law, which prescribes a minimum period of 30 days for public participation in the process of making laws and implementing rules that could have a significant impact on the environment. In the SDP club, we believe that the Waste Act, which has an extremely large environmental impact, was therefore necessary for the applicant to respect the 30-day deadline for public debate. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction did not publish the date of start and the date of the public participation, when calling for comments, opinions and proposals were published on its website on 4 May 2009. In addition, what we warned about during last year's amendments and additions to this law, the Waste Act practically changes almost every year, and it does not contribute to legal certainty. And on this occasion, we warn that a whole new Waste Act, which will be in line with the new EU Waste Directive, will soon be needed, so to speak. "West Framework" Directive. In the SDP club, we believe that this will be an opportunity to consider reforming the waste management system, and given that today is an extremely questionable functionality of this system. The waste law is one of the most important rules in the field of environmental protection, and since this is already its third amendment in three years, we believe it is necessary to issue a consolidated version of this legal text in order to make it easier for many interested parties to comply with this extremely important regulation, which will ensure a better, more efficient implementation of the law. Although it seems at first sight that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act proposes basic and necessary changes to comply with the new Law on concessions, and that there is nothing controversial about these amendments, unfortunately this is not the case. This proposal provides for the import of renewable waste, and we have seen hazardous waste, except that the implementation of a whole set of regulations governing the management of specific categories of waste, conditions and ensured capacities for the quality and efficient recovery of useful waste, and that there is no longer any need to limit imports of such waste. But is it really so? Did the situation in the area of waste management in the past year or a few years in Croatia really improve so much that we can already talk about waste as useful raw materials, rather than more garbage that threatens our environment and nature, human health and animals? We have to answer no to this question. Unfortunately, she hasn't improved. In fact, we in Croatia today cannot talk about the waste management system because we do not have this system. The most obvious evidence of this claim is that today in the second half of 2009, we still don't have any waste management centres except in plans and papers. In addition, the fact is that the Republic of Croatia does not have the capacity of certain categories of recovery for processing or own quantities of waste, let alone imported waste, and we do not have a suitable method or bass recovery technology. Provisions allowing the import of retreadable waste in Croatia have extremely upset environmental activists and activists, from whom we have received a whole series of remarks, performances and appeals to do everything to prevent the controversial Articles 4 and 21 from allowing uncontrollable imports of waste into Croatia. Although the bill that we are discussing today provides for waste imports for energy use and disposal, which existed in the draft of this law, before its entry into the parliamentary procedure, it is not clear from this proposal why the Croatian market is liberalised by retreadable waste when we do not yet have the necessary recovery capacity in Croatia. We recall that one of the objectives of the European Union is the self-sufficient capacity for waste recovery in Europe, as well as in each Member State separately, which includes respect for the principle of direct origin of waste or the restriction of imports of waste. However, the provisions of this proposal not only do they not restrict the import of waste, but they dilute existing provisions on the import of waste, and there is no justification for such an attitude. harmonising with European legislation. Last year's amendments to the European Union's waste roof document, the Republic of Croatia as a country in the accession process does not commit to full liberalisation of the waste market. We recall that Article 16 of Directive 2008/98 EC, which speaks about the principle of self-sufficiency and directness, gives freedom to decide on the regulation of the market by waste in Member States. It is therefore unclear why this bill proposes such almost complete market liberalisation with the waste of the Republic of Croatia. Although we welcome the proposal's intention to regulate or facilitate uninterrupted environmental recovery in locations of high-loaded waste, in cases where the polluter or manufacturer is known and refuses to implement the resolution, which was the case with the "Salonite" rescheduling, that is to say, to enable him to collect the resuscitation by sitting on the property, which is the meaning of Article 3 of the new Article 18a of the Law, are we asking whether Article 23 of this Bill, which regulates the collection of the costs and those reschedulings carried out before the entry into force of this law, will be a strong enough instrument of implementation and collection? We're truly afraid he won't. We also take this opportunity to warn ourselves that the mention of Article 3 of this Bill, namely the new Article 18a, does not speak anywhere about the obligation to respect the principle of wage polluter, which is an obligation under the roof of the Environmental Protection Act. Will the state, by charging the costs of the recovery of such buildings, united on real estate, include the unpaid debt in the principle of the pay polluter? In the SDP club, we believe that the collection should definitely include the payer's obligations on the principle. Following everything previously said, and most of all because of the unnecessary changes to the law in the part of the liberalisation of the Croatian waste market, by allowing imports of retreadable waste, and unfortunately certain categories of hazardous waste, as we can see, the SDP club will be restrained when voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35767	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, MP Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35768	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club has provided conditional support to the State Secretary today, since the Secretary of State here has promised to accept the amendments of the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning, which relate to the restriction of imports of hazardous waste. We can say that we at the HSS Club will support this law, because it was really not acceptable for us in the HSS to introduce dangerous waste as foreseen by these amendments and amendments to the law. Certainly, the issue of waste management is an extremely important environmental issue, but more and more the economic issue and that today, when we talk about this law, it should be pointed out that other than harmonising with the Law on concessions, this law is also quite important because of the work of the body and the state administration and local self-government units when it comes to waste management itself. It has already been pointed out in previous discussions that the proposed law allows for the import of usable waste into the Republic of Croatia and that cross-border waste is coordinated with a European Community regulation on waste shipments. The proposed law also amends the provisions governing the payment procedure for the management of specific categories of waste at the expense of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund by producers and importers of the products from which the said waste originates, and we believe that this is indeed the introduction of order into waste management. Amendments to the law allow the use of valuable waste resources which, if defined, and if it ends in the environment as such, is dangerous, but as raw materials can be used in useful material. A series of rules on specific categories of waste enables the development of entrepreneurs who employ between 3 and a half and 4000 workers. The law also proposed a solution to compensation to the state if it resuscitates sites highly burdened by hazardous waste, and when the polluter is known but has not implemented the recovery or refuses to execute it. And here I would like to mention an example that is current, which has shaken the Croatian public that you discussed here in the Croatian Parliament and in the field. It is a question of the rehabilitation of the “Salonite” factory in the bankruptcy and recovery of those pollutions that were created by the factory's work, so I would remind the distinguished representatives and MPs as well as the Croatian public what was happening in this case and why in this context these amendments and additions to the Waste Act are extremely important. Namely, prior to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings in 2004 the owner of “Salonita” d.d. from Vranjica was Jozo Curkovic whom I believe you all know is out of the country. In the bankruptcy procedure opened in 2004, claims of over 300 million kuna were reported by various creditors. The environmental inspection in July 2006 ordered a bankruptcy manager to protect the environment and people's health to carry out the recovery process in order to take care of asbestos-cement waste from the factory's circle. The same has not been done but has been requested by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction to provide the ministry with financial resources for recovery. The Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded in November 2006 that it requested the implementation of the procedure for the rehabilitation of asbestos-cement waste from the “Salonit” d.d. factory. in bankruptcy. The conclusion of the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental Protection on the problem of asbestos pollution in the Republic of Croatia on 27 June 2008. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and the Environmental Protection Fund has been tasked with implementing emergency and professional measures, i.e. the rehabilitation of coffee on which the Omladnac Football Playground is located in Vranjica, to carry out the rehabilitation of the “Salonit” d.d. factory. in bankruptcy and the rehabilitation of “muravine coffee”. In this respect, the Ministry and the Fund have taken all preparatory executive actions related to those resolutions. The whole recovery process represents one whole that is divided into several stages. So far, the rehabilitation of asbestos-cement waste from the “Salonit” d.d. factory has been carried out. in bankruptcy at the site of “muravine coffee”. Over 8,000 feet of cubic asbestos-cement waste has been taken care of. A coffee recovery was also carried out where the Omladnac football field is located in Vranjica, and project documentation is under way to produce local and construction permits for the rehabilitation of "mravina coffee". The value of these works is over 79 million kuna. The total investment of the fund is estimated to decontaminate the internal and external premises of the “Salonite” d.d. factory by the end of the recovery of the “murine coffee” decontamination. in bankruptcy and the restoration of the “Cosica coast” amount to about 200 million kuna. The waste law that we now have provides for the possibility of reimbursing the funds invested by the state when the owner is known which in this case he is. And the owner of hazardous waste who was obliged to carry out the recovery and disposal procedure, but he didn't, and in this case he didn't really do it, so this job took over the state. However, these provisions that we have today do not give a quality solution to the return of the funds invested and the registration of the legal publishing right when the recovery is carried out by the state. It is therefore necessary to accept the proposed provisions of the Waste Act that we are discussing today, because I think we all agree that it would be unfair for the state to invest 200 million kuna in this recovery without obtaining a refund of those funds. What I would like here if it was possible for the secretary of state to only get in response, because of course we support these amendments and additions to the Waste Act as I have said since you accepted the amendment committees. And I think that these amendments to the law address important issues such as this example of the Salonite factory. However, it is mentioned in the introductory part of the law that no additional financial resources are needed in the budget. This is a more rhetorical question, but I will also support it with an example because namely whether the level of control of border crossings is good and whether our inspection services are really enough to successfully control cross-border waste. That's what I'm asking you for, because I think we should still secure some money, that we still need to capitulate our services, get to know the Chief Inspector, educate them. Also when it comes to customs services because we remember what happened recently when a BiH-labelled truck passed through Croatia by driving scrap metal that radiated 50 times as much as natural. The radiation was discovered by the Slovenian customs officers. They didn't inform our customs officers. But the point is that truck went all over Croatia and none of our services noticed that there was radioactive material on the truck. That's why it seems important to me, it's not an obligation to define it in the preamble of the law itself. But we at the HSS Club invite both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to really invest a little more money in the capacitation of environmental protection inspections. Not only those inspections, but it is important for the implementation of this law and for supervision, but also for all inspection services because that money should not be regretted, it should not be considered expenditure because we often pass laws in the Croatian Parliament that are very high quality, and then in practice on the ground we fall, for monitoring the implementation of both this law and other laws, inspection services are important and we support the ministry's efforts and demands to invest more money there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35769	And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, a distinguished colleague of representative Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35770	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Thereafter, following the entry into force of the Law on concessions, the Waste Act should be brought into line with that. Over the past 3 years, conditions and capacity-secured capacity have been met for quality and efficient recovery of useful waste and there is no longer any need to limit imports of retreadable waste. The implementation of the law has identified the need for certain amendments for the sake of clarity and accuracy of the text. The law harmonizes cross-border waste traffic with a regulation... the consignments of waste number 1013/2006 in the section relating to exports and the transport of non-hazardous waste for disposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The relevant issues that are brought into line with the Law on concessions relate to waste management activities as follows. The concessions for which concessions are awarded shall be determined by the grantors, the time limits on which concessions are granted, or the duration of the concession, the necessary documentation for the competition, the criteria for selecting the tenderer, the content of the decision to choose the most favourable bidder and the concession contract. The concession to carry out waste management activities as a municipal activity shall be given in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the municipal economy. Furthermore, the addition of the law is also necessary to pay compensation in favour of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for the preparation, implementation and development of the system of return, collection, use and disposal of specific categories of waste. I would like to finally underline that amendments to the law allow the use of valuable waste properties which, if defined as waste and if such ends in the environment, is dangerous, while as raw materials can be used in useful material. As the promoter adopts the amendments submitted by the Committee on Environmental Protection and Spatial Regulation, representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club assess that these supplements and amendments will have positive effects and we will support this amendment and the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35771	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the clubs, we no longer apply. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first registered representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35772	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. To pass a law under an urgent procedure which is not necessary at this time or to comply with European legislation is not necessary, is not necessary, is not justified or is not supported. In order to discuss some of the points in the articles in this law with sufficient data, and I will focus primarily on the part concerning the import of waste, Article 4. I want to tell you something, Mr. Secretary of State. In Croatia there are districts where recycling plants have developed, for the recovery of certain raw materials, paper, glass, plastics, oils etc. In order to be able to decide this way and as the gentleman on behalf of the board, the fellow representative argued, it was worth making a register of how many such drives there are, which is their capacity, how many people employ, on the one hand, and the register as much, at least for example. In several counties there is real such waste in Croatia. In order to actually realize that there is then a potential need for imports for existing production facilities. However, this does not stem from any of your arguments or from any document that would follow this proposal. A team before the EU directives will have to agree on a slightly different matter. I'm also absolutely against the import of dangerous waste. So what new categories are we introducing to a country where we protect the environment? What new spaces we are opening in that country for those who will really import dangerous waste, which will then need to be taken care of, deposited, etc. at the expense of citizens and citizens of Croatia. In addition, a colleague, Franic, spoke about the Energy and Ownership Strategy of Croatia in Krško's nuclear power plant yesterday. Even there is the share of waste that Croatia must make a lot of money to take care of. Personally, I would like to say to this Article 4 that the issue of control is one key issue. We're past trucks today that contain radioactive waste, and our services don't notice it at the very end of the line. There's one thing. Another thing, if it will ensure the functioning of existing recycling production plants, then it makes sense, but it has to be limited. We can't have some old refrigerators being reused, yes, something recycled, and yet there's a huge number of unsettled waste to be deposited somewhere. And it can't happen to us because someone's going to use silver from some kind of waste like a battery to import batteries because what's left behind is absolutely unacceptable to import. Besides today with our batteries that we deposit in Croatia we don't know where we're going or what we're going to do. Thus, this law is made obvious to survive for a time why and from which it is not good to speculate. If there is a lack of confidence in the services that control this kind of work, then it should be removed by one law. I'm surprised we're heading towards an increase in hazardous waste and I'm surprised we didn't follow this better. We know today that plastic bottles are coming back to Croatia, that there are no plastic bottles, say, for plants that recycle plastics, but the register that you are one would then be sure to do so. This is what we assume. We know that there are far more bottles coming back today than glass and other glass packaging, but yet you haven't given any information about it that would show us this relationship that we're going to fail to know 4, 5 thousand jobs unless we do. And then such a law must strictly and exclusively limit it. In this case there is no need for an emergency procedure, it is unarranged, undefined according to future interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia on our Environmental Protection Strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35773	Thank you very much, counsel. We have one application for a replica, a distinguished colleague of the Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35774	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. Well, fellow Members, you're just like this with this part when you mentioned the question of what capacity it is that will process this resourceful waste and to find out that you should have and know what capacity it is, it's certainly not enough what is said in this introductory section that the conditions are secured and the capacities for importing retreadable waste in the Republic of Croatia are secured. We, from the opening presentation of the Secretary of State, and also from this material, do not see how much of this waste should and should be allowed to be imported, and where this waste would be processed. I think that's one of the key issues in this part, because we know what can happen to the import of waste, but we can also know that the waste that is in and out of us is effective and processed. In addition to this question, what goes with this is the issue of imports, i.e. the transport of hazardous waste. I think that this is one of the key also issues that can make the safety of our citizens and people very vulnerable. For both of these reasons, surely we should have a broader discussion, not an emergency procedure like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35775	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished colleague Mirjana Ferić Vac.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35776	Nothing, mate. Thank you very much. But that's actually the point of all of this with the best intentions. I don't want to believe at all that this is the time the law allows for even space for any kind of manipulation. I don't want to believe that. But it can happen if we don't know how much of what can be recycled, how many drives, so the register. And besides, in Article 3, where you say the state can resuscitate. Well, the state has to, the state has to worry about these things. The state can't help it. She has to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35777	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague representative, Angelko Mihalic, also applied for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35778	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. Here I am, just as my predecessors have said, the president of my Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction Mr. Jerko Roshin, and Mrs. Petir, provided these amendments are accepted by the board, then I will be in favour of that bill. In fact, the situation in the Republic of Croatia in the last 10 years has significantly improved and the situation is much better than it was 10 years ago. Society in general adds more attention to this problem which is, in fact, perhaps the biggest problem of both our countries and each other, therefore, the protection of the human environment. Just this last, last two, three years when there has been a separate collection of PET packaging has significantly improved the situation at local dumps, but I also have to say that I don't know which county, perhaps very little county has today solved the site issue for the construction of dumps. I come from northwestern Croatia, and I may have been lucky or unfortunate to be the head of a municipality where we have had big problems over the dump for many years, and we have managed to solve it thanks to both the fund and the ministry in an extremely good way. It was one big dump at the very entrance to the town of Varazdin, and for many years the citizens in the area had big problems with it. With one good policy, we managed to solve it and solve it, and now the thought itself. When I had to attend this and change, the proposal and the amendment to the amendment of the Law on the Import of Dangerous Waste says that we have our own waste too much is not a good place for me, but when I heard and when we took a good look at that committee and came to a common agreement on the adoption of these amendments, I think it's a good thing. And now there were companies who thought they had a quality facility and solutions to use it, so let's call it dangerous waste coming from outside, that wasn't the case. We need to give much more education and much more money to the inspection services, not to let citizens sneak and fear anonymous letters write to the Mayor of Varazdin and to me and others when such a phenomenon occurs. The inspection services here should be clear and consistent and prohibit anyone from doing this job who does not have all the conditions as prescribed by the law. Then it is better to give it to those companies and better to legalise it all than to import such waste into the Republic of Croatia and to deposit and postpone here in what ways. The fact is that during the war a lot of dangerous waste came to the Republic of Croatia and after that a lot, a lot of money and a lot of funds and the Ministry and local self-government units invested in the recovery of such a situation. I must further say that, most importantly, I underline the most important quality of preparing the conditions for the implementation of this law, not saving money again I speak for the education of people. We're having a lot of trouble with inspection services on the ground today. I know there's not enough inspector. And when certain problems arise, then in an adequate way, he does not react and then, in a different way, the falcons of those people who are now likely to want to do less every third job. It's usually a lucrative job. Imports of any waste and across the waste border is profitable. Whether in this direction or in that direction. We had one case ten years ago when she was preparing to build a factory in Varazdin that today employs 3,000 workers... You've all heard of that factory. But they're supposed to have both leather loading and production. We'd have 100 tons of junk every day. I was against the construction of such a factory in our community, despite the fact that they've hired 2,000 people here today. But it still didn't happen. There's a sewing going on there today, etc. And here's one factory that now belongs to maybe the best factories in northwestern Croatia. But at that point, we estimate that it is more important to protect the environment and everything else than to accept any production and then what happens later. It usually happens a lot later, I don't say it would happen with Boxmark. It's an extremely good and high-quality firm, and I know the boss and the manager of that company they run. However, frequent bankruptcy occurs. The boss is gone, and the problems remain with the Republic of Croatia and should therefore be managed. It's the same thing that happened to Vranjica. And if there wasn't a state intervention here, the question of what kind of situation would be down there on the ground. So I say once again if it's going to be, and it's happening now and now it's possible to drive a large part of that waste. Then let's keep it under control and do it the best way the law can. And all those who will not abide by it should be sanctioned. And that's why we need to have educated people who will know how to deal with these problems. Of course, we don't exclude the role of local self-government. I can't have the mayors and mayors staring at such phenomena. They need to know what's going on in their midst. And trust me, then, it'll certainly be a much better situation than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35779	Thank you very much, fellow representative. We have two replicas reported. First of all, dear colleague Gulic Kresimir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35780	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'd just like to complement my colleague Mihalic and say that we should thank the Ministry and the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund in any case, because I think in the last few years since she's been here through the ministry and the fund's functioning, we have to be happy that here we don't really have tires, car wrecks, refrigerators, I don't know everything we've had in our forests, streams and fields. And I really think that way really much done. Not only that, but new jobs are open, and it's really all about praise. I have to say, in any case, that the 2008 Waste Act, where units of local self-government are allowed to make concessions, no longer accounting for waste by squares. It was really one shame that the citizens were paying. If there's a big apartment, and there's a member living inside that they're paying for squares, because we all know that garbage and junk don't make squares, they make people. So it is commendable that this is now being calculated according to a unit of mass or volume or by a household member. And there were also some objections from NGOs that this should be lifted according to the number of family members. I think you should stay, because it's about residential buildings where you can't be different than just according to the number of family members. I'd also like to say as far as I'm concerned, and since I'm a member of the Environmental Protection Committee, I'm going to support this law anyway. By accepting the amendment of our committee and also allowing the import of material retreadable waste. And by... there's capacity at our place. And I can give an example that I have one of those newly opened electronic and electrical waste recycling plants in Bistra. That there's not enough work for all 30 employees. So why don't we just import some of that if we can just hire these people to work on maybe two shifts and get that secondary waste back into production and I think it'll be useful for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35781	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of my colleague Mihalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35782	Well, I agree with my colleague Gulic, but I say one more time. I need everything under control, and I agree, and we said that. It will be in the amendments and contained to be under control but under the control of the units of local self-government. You know that local self-government units bring in spatial plans, determines where these areas will be. It has to be under control. And also the inspection services and the ministry and the fund must respect both opinions and respect the units of local self-government, as you can be sure that everyone on their field is sure to take care of it and wants his situation to be the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35783	Thank you very much. And another replica, distinguished colleague Mirjana Feric Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35784	Mr. Vice President. He mentioned a colleague at the beginning of a dump in Varazdin. The largest dump in Croatia in Jakushevec in Zagreb has been renovated as well. However, in order not to give the impression that all units of local self-government can and should open dumps, it is necessary to learn about the European Union directives and what we have already adopted in this regard. So then a little local self-government, I won't say shut up, but put where Croatia should be about it. There's no waste disposal without separate waste. In this direction, it would also be necessary to carry out some procedures in terms of the advisory procedure for new housing. We don't have waste separation conditions in the new apartment. In new apartments that the city, in buildings that contain a certain number of residential ones. So it's not an isolated system, it's a system that has its own chain and so on and in that sense. So what the colleague finally stated in his replica is a new open production body that uses waste electronically, etc., now it's a matter of registering Mr. Secretary of State. If we knew what there was, we'd be able to determine. No, now in this very space, we can grow companies that will only depend on imports and not be here. So if the place for the mess was created then it was created and it shouldn't have happened by passing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35785	It's okay, fellow Members, because what you're saying I just want to say when he was in Vienna and those normally big city have big and trouble, they had municipal waste, so I asked when and how long this process was going on and what part of the most complex then they said that the longest deal was with 600 thousand Vienna housewives to put waste where it was supposed to be at the first delay and then the rest of the procedure went much faster. Reply to the replica of my colleague Mihalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35786	Well, I have to say that the recovery of this waste in Kneginec is somewhere parallel to a waste recovery in Jakushevec. The state was involved, but the local self-government unit carried out the tender and believe me, it has enough knowledge and intelligence and at a local level. The dump was renovated in a way that today one of the best business zones in Croatia emerged around the dump. No one who's ever come down and who's got 60 investors in that zone has ever asked us what this is, so it's extraordinary, and you see it at the entrance when you're entering Varazdin as well as how this dump is arranged. I said in this way, the other units of local self-government will be regulated, and that is the European Union directive. And believe me, foreign companies from Germany and Austria were also buying parcels there, building plants. Well, you see, we only know how to do that when there's some kind of political consensus that we don't have to choose right now, that Mr. Vice President knows, to pick out a location to take care of the waste of north-west Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35787	Well, we've achieved this consensus because there are certain standards that a colleague has spoken about, and that's also the representative of the ministry knows because all of this expensive thing that we've talked about here who's creating waste has to pay it, but we have to make sure that we're creating a more acceptable price, so at least when it comes to communal ones, then it's going to have to be done for at least 500 thousand residents and then it determines immediately and normative how many such locations it takes and then it needs to be equipped with what we've all talked about together, which we all want to do together how it should go. Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35788	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Following a little public on the issues of waste, recovery, etc. It is evident that, in addition to the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Golf is so excited to say that this law, or this bill, belongs to a category of very controversial laws and is a lot of opinions for and against this law. There are a lot of reasons for this, and I'm going to be just like my predecessor colleagues focusing on this problematic article 4 which changes Article 47 of the previous law so far. So it is generally known that almost everything and everything is imported into our country. It is difficult to find some product on the market that at least in some kind of variant or in some form does not come from imports. Here, by proposing this law, we will now import waste and in the first place what is most awkward, what is most problematic in this proposal and dangerous waste. The very word itself is so powerful that when you tell someone that you import something dangerous, then the logical question is why we don't have enough danger in our country, but we still have something dangerous to introduce. Here, the proposal to amend this article of justice is one of the reasons in which the conditions have been met over the past three years and the capacity for quality and effective recovery of useful waste has been ensured and more economic efficiency has been achieved. Considering here also dangerous waste useful waste because there are some elements within it that are usable in terms of recovery or conversion into some other matter or substance, or materials whatever they call them. What is important here to point out is that one significant part of the professional public, but I would also say to the environmental public who works or acts at the level of public awareness about the need to ensure a healthier life, does not exactly agree with this fact that in the previous three years the capacities have been secured so that we can now be affected by the fact that so I say with import waste and not only with the one that exists. The predecessors pointed out as a very positive fact that it disappeared from our streets, from different areas of natural parts of the forest, fields etc., let's say these five packagings are said to be, therefore some polymer products which are naturally according to their viability, we who teach this in schools occasionally have to tell students that this recovery is closest to, say, recycling or recycling even though it is not entirely adequate to understand the new version. Therefore, it is a fact that shows that the application of these products can again be made economically efficient but also protect the environment. But it's not always so nice. Every day when I travel to Vinkovci-Osjek, for example, I pass through the old Olta yard where there are huge amounts of what was formed to say the ball of that five wastes, which in a very scattered state reminds me of the approach of some cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when you come in and when you have a wide field of access, a bunch of plastic bags, bottles, etc. That yard of Olta has become such an area where we can say not only what is collected and thus shaped but also quite scattered, therefore also polluted. But that's not the point of my discussion. So what I'm saying is that dangerous waste in itself can hide a number of properties that are not so seemingly dangerous for us until the moment we touch them again, that is, when we introduce them into some kind of processing. It's possible to have both explosive and oxidative and irritability and carcinogenicity and what we least understand is some kind of mutagenity because it's developing at a genetic level, etc. And what we can find in nature, therefore, on a daily basis, talking about our waste from various resins, from various glues, colors, waste oils, batteries, batteries, etc., is a very large amount to ask a real question whether certain professional circles that disagree with the fact that we have the capacity to process and something that would come from imports are indeed, justified, therefore, such issues. We've had more cases, I know from there my closer environment, from Vukovar, etc., that the driven initiatives of the economy that were just based on the retrieval of certain raw materials that were therefore, after their exploitation period, rejected. There were situations that the company, for certain justified or unfounded reasons, could not enter into it, had ceased to work, so the huge amounts of such waste remained in rather uncontrollable conditions. I agree here with the observation that the matter of sanctioning, or solving, such situations should be better said, at the expense of the person who has polluted it. For the polluter is not only the one who created something but also the one who collected it. And now if someone collects huge amounts of such waste for some kind of recovery and does not recover, therefore, it does not turn into something that must be harmless to the environment regardless of if it has entered as dangerous waste it must be harmless for the environment, which, of course, for the people in the first row, if it has not done so, it should bear the costs to resuscitate it. And now, in all that, I'm going to go back to the beginning, and the question is whether we need more import hazardous waste in all that situation. There are a lot of such issues, and I am following these discussions in the first order of the environmental, therefore, sites, and part of which is why my colleague Mirela Holy, who referred me to the area, but partly because of her profession and because of my work, because I am handing over an object called materials at the agricultural college and I can say that I am very much questioned by this change in the law that simply kicked out of the old law the term dangerous. And in public, it's very difficult to explain such a fact. It's very hard to explain. As people who communicate with the public with people who may not understand each other enough in terms of the recovery of certain materials, on the one hand, we should give them a little education in these things. And I believe that the education carried out by the Ministry and all others, therefore, of course, and the media bear fruit as much as we say ourselves, we no longer have such waste in the streets, primarily five packagings and similar things, but it took more detail, more seriously, more carefully this public issue, primarily with people who understand a little better, so they operate, work within different environmental associations to work out, see if this element is really so important to this law and whether it is really so important to the Republic of Croatia in some economic sense, so put it into the amendments to the law. It is precisely because I think that the law is not carefully prepared in relation to the public that I cannot support it because the question of hazardous waste is a question that requires much more thorough preparation before the adoption of the legal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35789	Thank you very much. We've also exhausted applications for individual hearings. On behalf of the Proposer, please choose the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35790	Dear Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs. Here is a very brief review, I thank you, otherwise, for the debate which is very constructive and there are useful proposals and it will all be built in over time because this is already the third one, the fourth amendment of the law, is hard to follow, and I also see by the discussions that people often do not notice that some things have already been settled through the law, so these novels are going on, missing the consolidated text, unfortunately it is a duty both by law and by the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, the consolidated texts are passed by the Committee on Legislatives. As regards the emergency procedure, the emergency procedure is proposed for the purpose of harmonising the concession law. And that's true and given in an explanation of why the law goes according to an emergency procedure. Of course, the biggest debate developed over these imports of waste, with an emphasis on hazardous waste. Surely we are not aware of this provision, that the amendment that we are about to adopt of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Spatial Regulation, that this question, in an appropriate way, I think we have solved the data on the quantities of waste in Croatia, is in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency by law and the Environmental Protection Fund. Therefore, the data is kept. The fact is that lately, one of the largest numbers of employment has been around since 2004, '05. when the Waste Act began when the entire application of this law and the waste management system generally began that the largest employment was brought here. And the fact is that they are opening up I would say new recovery plants, for the production of raw materials for this and that they appear to us in the ministry as well as in the environmental protection fund, and by following the amounts that are collected, taken care of, recovered and similarly missing certain quantities, or waste that could be processed as a new product, or... certain raw materials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with you, too, but about the inspections, but I have to say one thing. Our environmental inspectors work day and night, everyone has passive duty. Whenever you call, Saturday and Sunday, our environmental inspectors go out on the field. We've proven that in countless cases, they know that and associations. Therefore, we also have a constantly opened competition. Surely the inspector never enough, but I say our environmental inspectors really do their job within the law and do it day and night. We've had a certain passive duty since the first day of that inspection, and through this center 112, there's no problem that our inspectors don't get out of the field if any incident or something happens. It's often when it comes to waste, I have to say, there may be a little bit of a mix-up, but often we come to a debate about municipal waste. For municipal waste, communal directors under the Law on the Communist Economy are responsible. They're hired and should be owned by local self-government units. I'm talking about communal and ordinary, I'm not talking about this where a country for specific categories of waste in certain cases can't run anywhere and people just call the ministry. It's often happening to us in the cabinet that people call that some kind of waste has been dumped somewhere in some meadow, it's a matter of a really communal director because it's a communal waste. And then the communal director doesn't come out. So the communal director has powers and according to the communal order and units of local self-government have that authority through the Law on the Communist Economy and through this so that they can impose criminal penalties, etc. We will go with the Law on the municipal economy which I have already announced in the amendments and addition of the Law on the municipal economy and we are aware that these communal directors should also be given stronger and greater powers, because often you know the issue of property rights violations because it must step on that plot or not step on this plot. As far as the state can take care of what Mrs. Vac said. The state is responsible for hazardous waste, it stands in the other text of the waste law. This is where the stipulation can stand because it's primarily the obligation of the owner to resuscitate it. And it's put here it can if this one doesn't, which doesn't mean that the state won't intervene if someone refuses or doesn't resuscitate. In all the cases we've had so far, we've had this Vranjic, it's all shown that we've done our duty and we're still doing it. So short. I say again about this waste import. He's also a law-determined man. When the whole law is taken and the provisions, not only of these amendments and additions, nothing will be introduced, and the ministry will not be able to obtain any kind of consent, and it does not see where and where it is going and what kind of plant it is going to do for processing. Therefore, we do not think that this should be a matter of panic because it will be under control and make sure that the law is implemented in this regard. Here I thank you all for the debate and ask you to support this law and adopt it when conditions are obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35791	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And I declare a break. We'll continue at 15.15.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35792	Fifth. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act. The debate is closed on your benches. We have amendments. We ask Secretary of State Davor Snotty to show up on the amendments. These are amendments to the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Amendment one?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35793	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35794	Amendment two?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35795	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35796	Amendment three?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35797	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35798	Amendment four?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35799	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35800	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35801	Sustained. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35803	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Legislative Committee Amendment One?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35804	The amendment is not accepted in view of the fact that the amendment was given by the Committee on Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, so the amendment. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35805	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35806	He's withdrawing the amendment. Thank you. An amendment to MP Mirela Holy?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35807	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that the amendments of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and of the Committee on Spatial Planning which have been adopted on 4th day. And which, in part, formulates, accepts and accepts a part of the amendment by the representative, because it is said that there is a further ban on the import of waste into Croatia dangerous, except in exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35808	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35809	I will, however, ask for a vote on this amendment since I remind myself that in Croatia we still do not have a waste management system, and that even the existing waste recovery facilities are such that even our quantities are not sufficient to recover, so there are no conditions for importing additional quantities of waste. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35810	Thank you. President Andrija Hebrang's club of HDZ representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35811	Mr. Vice President, we're proposing a hand-to-hand vote. Some of our deputies have no keys and have not participated in the vote so far. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35812	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act. Please get involved, can we vote? The result? I find 73 votes for, 26 abstentions and 8 against the law on amendments and amendments to the Waste Act, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35813	I suggest we start the afternoon work. In view of the committee meetings, no meetings have been held for part of the meeting, given the present proposings, I suggest we move on as next item. - Report on the work of the attorney general for 2008, Proposer: The Advocate General is the Advocate General. We've received a report. We have the government's opinion. We got the materials in the mail. All the committees, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Reports from all board sessions have been received. In the name of the promoter here is Deputy Honorable Mr. Dejan Palic, so please take his word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35814	First of all, I want to tell Mr. Malcic who is not here today because, as you know, he is subjected to a complex surgery and recovery takes a little longer than we expected. He asked that this topic be delayed until his recovery, but unfortunately that is not what happened. I will therefore try, instead, to present the main emphasis from the 2008 work report. The annual report shall be a demonstration of the work of the Ombudsman and of the information on the degree of respect for constitutional and legal rights which it has come to during its work. The 2008 report was drawn up by the same methodology as last year, and this report can compare the number of complaints in the areas of law compared to previous years, as shown in the statistical review you have in the first part of the report. The areas of rights that have been more represented in the total number of complaints or which have been assessed more important because of the problems identified, for example legal certainty and equality of citizens, efficiency, shortcomings in the normative order of the problem and, moreover, have been dealt with more closely by an area which had neither a number nor a weight of such importance. This report contains a statistical review of work in certain areas as well as geographical criteria for the cities of the Republic of Croatia and foreign countries. In 2008, a thousand 560 complaints were received, which is 318 less than in 2007, but from the first six months of work this year, there was an increase in the case so that it would be at an annual level to expect in 2009, 300 cases more than it was in 2008. So it's not a trend, it's a normal phenomenon of increasing and falling numbers within certain limits. As in previous years, the number of complaints is actually higher because some complaints are covered by a larger number of applicants as one, so one case is shown statistically and sometimes the complaints of a number of citizens. Citizens only address the occupier when they have certain problems. Unfortunately, so far, no one has spoken to the occupier about the praise of a body that dealt with his rights and obligations. It is also logical that this report is in fact a demonstration of the negative phenomena that occurred in the work of complaints. Therefore, it is not possible to take the report as a complete picture of the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia but, in fact, through a sample of that dark side, the functioning of administrative bodies and bodies with public authority in relation to citizens, with these and fundamental problems in the longevity of these procedures for many years. This you could see in the report in all areas that the first objection is the long-term nature of the proceedings. The statistical review of the data gives an image of the decline in the number of items imported with the breakdown of the former SFRY. These were subjects of refugee status, the items of restoration of the return of property temporarily taken over and the items of housing care. One part of the definitely drop in the number of cases should therefore also be given the importance that the Office of the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities has also opened up, so that this is another reason I believe significant reasons for the decline in numbers because the lack of funds that we managed to visit the counties and places throughout Croatia in the previous years, allowing access to the Office of the Ombudsman to citizens who cannot reach Zagreb where there is one single office. As regards the brief main problems identified in the work under the complaints, we can remind them that, above all, the long-term nature of the proceedings is stated, then the multiple and multiple annulment of acts, solutions and return to retrials, ineffectiveness of the proceedings for the silence of the administration, the impunity of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, the problem of generating judicial proceedings through irregular work of the administration and in the segment of the judiciary are a number of complaints over the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable time. The efficiency in providing protection to citizens was not significantly different compared to previous years. We continue to record the longevity above all the proceedings in the appeal cases of the restoration of the war on damaged houses, in the cases at the request of the return of property, in accordance with the Law on the return of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. In part, these are retirement items and works of construction, especially in inspection procedures, which are also reflected in our reports. The co-operation with the ministries took place as you will see in the report, from case to case, different from that of stressing that, compared to the application of the Agricultural Land Act, we have encountered a total condemnation of cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. In all other areas, we can give an assessment that proposals and suggestions by the Ombudsman are accepted more or less. As regards the Office of the Ombudsman, it should be pointed out that in 2008, in the past year, it has marked the full affirmation of the institution of the Ombudsman, its roles and meanings both in the domestic and international human rights protection system. First of all, here I have in mind the adoption of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which has become the central national body for the implementation of this law, which has been entrusted to the Ombudsman with new relevant powers. Among other things, both the judiciary and the wider circle of legal persons. .../Intruder: A little louder and that colleagues die a little bit and then we'll hear from you!"... Therefore, the adoption of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination by the Ombudsman received relations both with the judiciary and with a wide circle of legal persons. As a central anti-discrimination body, the Ombudsman also has the task of coordinating special lawyers in certain affairs and of working with civil society and social partners. This cooperation was on mutual satisfaction in previous years, and I would like to stress this in particular in this report that a significant number of problems have always been seen by civil society organisations dealing with the protection of human rights. In fact, many organisations have shown in human rights protection matters the ability to see the problem, formulate the problem, and sometimes even formulate a direction in which solutions should be sought. So this cooperation has been going on for years and this law has been formally arranged. The 2008 international plan also brought significant affirmation to the institution of the occupier. Thanks to years of assessments of independence and credibility and the recommendations of experts and bodies of the European Commission of the OSCE, the UN and others, the Ombudsman has been credited with the highest status and as a national institution for the protection and promotion of human rights in the Republic of Croatia and has become a full member of the European network of institutions to promote equality and a member of the management board of the Mediterranean... and the Management Board of the International Coordination Committee, national human rights institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a central national body for the protection of human rights according to Paris principles, the office should be accessible to citizens and in places across Croatia for which additional resources should be allocated. The problem remains unresolved and should be kept in mind as a serious difficulty in further strengthening the institution. And strengthening, providing protection of human rights to citizens throughout Croatia. As shown in the 2009 report, the funds will not be sufficient for employees' salaries, since they reached 31 during 2008. In particular, it should be stressed that the proposal of the Anti-discrimination Act provided for an amount of EUR 1 million to implement that law, however, did not enter the final state budget. The tasks provided for by the Anti-discrimination Act will therefore be carried out within the framework of the resources available and the redistribution of officials in the office. In addition to the need for funds, the need to ensure adequate space for the work of the office should also be highlighted. The current space is not available to people with disabilities and is located at three different locations. At the end of this brief review, I'd like to allow you to quote the text from last year's report by the attorney general. "There is no doubt that the constitutional institution of the occupier and indeed not only formally becomes a central national institution for the protection of human rights. An even stronger incentive for such development can also give a proposed change to the constitutional provision on the Ombudsman, and regardless of the outcome of this proposal, strengthening the institution will be continued. This implies the need to apply European standards to the protection of human rights, but this also dictates the necessity of harmonisation and integration into the European system of institutions and policies in that area. In the European environment, a step from formal and normative in real and life from law and declarations in administrative and judicial practice will be needed, in the way all state bodies and institutions operate. This will also be important in determining the further development of the institution of the attorney general.". So much in the opening part, I'm available for further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35815	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy. It's safe that everyone would be happy if he were with us and Mr... But as far as we can hear, the health situation is better but still not so that you could get involved in the work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We want him to do it as soon as possible. Is there anyone who would like to come forward? They do. Mrs. Zgrebec, Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35816	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development discussed the report on the work of the 2008 Ombudsman as an interested working body. The opening statement was tabled by the deputy staff attorney and representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The debate was conducted in the section concerning the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The debate expressed its dissatisfaction that the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has not delivered in any case the requested report or response, and has not cooperated with the Ombudsman at all, ignoring any warnings and objections addressed to the Ministry and the Registrar. It is also pointed to the problem of a possible bargaining in the availability of agricultural land because the Agricultural Land Act does not provide participants in the process of granting certain rights on agricultural land owned, legal protection against infringements of their rights in enforcement procedures. There is also a positive experience of the availability of agricultural land based on this law in Zadar County, but with only a few remarks. However, the opinion is also expressed that every citizen, including the Ombudsman, must receive an answer. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the 2008 report on the work of the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35817	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Zgrebec. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr. Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed it at its 22nd session on 20 May 2009, you can see that a long time has passed which is not a positive fact, a 2008 report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman in an act of 31 March 2009. The report was considered by the Committee as a parent working body. The debate supported the report in question and highlighted its comprehensiveness, the application of the reporting methodology and the justification of the facts which the Ombudsman had taken during the civil appeal proceedings. In particular, the evaluation of the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in part of the report, evaluations and proposals that may serve as a focus to the competent authorities for changing the situation and better organisation of work, and all in order to ensure more effective protection of constitutional and legal rights in relation to procedures before the state administration, courts and other bodies having public authority. It has been found that in some areas some progress has been made, but that the functioning of the bodies dealing with the rights of citizens is still not satisfactory. It has been pointed out that it is a worrying fact that some problems have been pointed out by the Ombudsman for years in his reports, but it makes recommendations to address these problems that are being fully supported in the parliamentary debates, but still does not significantly change the situation. Thus, there are still the most numerous complaints concerning the long-term resolution of the case, both before the administrative authorities and before the courts. These problems are also being warned by the European Court of Human Rights rulings which confirm a serious violation of human rights due to an unreasonable lengthy duration of proceedings. Such a situation contributes to the ineffectiveness of the procedures for the silence of the administration, the lack of mechanisms and measures to prevent repeated behaviour, resolution and return to the retrial, and to all this long-standing impediment of the administrative court. As far as the judiciary is concerned, a report by the Ombudsman's staff also shows that citizens are often disintegrated due to the length of court proceedings. In particular, the fact that despite the existence of a judicial protection institute, citizens' rights to trial within a reasonable period introduced by the new Law on Courts did not have a serious shift. Because courts, despite the fact that they get a deadline from a higher court in which they have to make a measuring decision, do not respect the deadline in many cases. In the case of persons with disabilities, the debate reiterated the problem of differences in rights for the same categories of damage between civilian and military persons, the inequality in the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, particularly the low level of protection in matters of less populated rural and island areas, as well as the lack of minimum building and technical conditions for access of persons with disabilities to individual institutions, including the Office of the Public Ombudsman. The debate also raised the question of exercising citizens' rights to compensation for property destroyed during the war, but independent of war activities, as well as the question of payment in connection with the killings of the nearest members of the family. A number of unresolved status issues of citizens, especially those who spent the entire working life in the Republic of Croatia, have also been warned of and have obtained the right to retire and started a family in the Republic of Croatia, and for years cannot resolve basic status rights such as the issue of citizenship. As one of the tasks on which the competent authorities, state authorities and the Office of the Public Attorney should engage in the next period, the debate also brought the problem of thousands of people from the Vukovar area, who were said not to be given the opportunity to exercise the right to purchase apartments under the same conditions as other Croatian citizens. A person's attention in the debate was raised by the Government of Croatia's opinion given in a report by the Ombudsman. It has been pointed out that in the past years, the Croatian Parliament has concluded that a report has been accepted after discussions on the annual reports of the Ombudsman. The first time last year after the 2007 Report was debated, the Council concluded, on the basis of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it is incomprehensible to us, with a report by the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of Croatia. Although all parliamentary committees have previously discussed the report and this committee has proposed to our Croatian Parliament that the report be accepted. And in the government's opinion of the 2008 Police Attorney's Report, it is reiterated that the same finding. And without further ado, we found it quite incomprehensible, as is incomprehensible and that this debate is being held this afternoon, and not in the morning, as it would be instructive, especially if this report is being taken into consideration and not accepted. As chairman of the Human Rights Committee, I protest for it. When it comes to the conditions of the Office of the Attorney General's Office, the Committee supported his proposals to address the problems highlighted in the report. Ensuring the funds needed for the wages for... , providing funds for office days on the ground, providing the resources necessary for the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, and addressing the problem of space for the work of the Ombudsman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, let's hope this complexity of this situation doesn't have an economic impact on the lawyer's work, that would be quite devastating. Our conclusion, however, is to be accepted, and not to be taken into consideration, the 2008 report on the work of the Ombudsman and, of course, all opinions, the proposals presented in the debate, as well as the remarks will be sent to all the competent authorities. Thank you very much and that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35819	Thank you very much. And now on behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the esteemed representative of colleague Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy and fellow MPs. The Committee discussed that report in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The Committee held the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on that act. In his brief opening statement, the Deputy Attorney-General pointed out that the report was prepared by the same methodology as earlier years, comprehensively and based on facts. In the debate, part of the committee members finds it unacceptable to assess the situation with proposals from the occupier in the field of protection of persons with disabilities, in particular in the part relating to the pilot project, the personal assistant project. However, part of the Committee also believes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, in its opinion, took note of that act, should have made clear in which part of the Ombudsman's report did not support. After the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion. The Committee is informed of the report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2008 and proposes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to task the competent authorities of the state administration in order to remove the irregularities listed in the report and, in cooperation with the Ombudsman, to further consider certain objections and to find solutions for their rapid removal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35821	Thank you very much. The other committees? There's no interest. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35822	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Attorney General, Mr. Assistant Secretary of State Mr. Maticic, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club discussed the 2008 Public Prosecutor's Report. The annual report points to the liveliness and scope of the work of the Ombudsman. This is the second report made by the same methodology. It should be pointed out at the outset that the number of complaints received in 2008 is lower by 318 cases, i.e. 1560 complaints were received compared to 2007 when they were received in 1878. Still, after the analysis of this report, we can see that citizens are addressing the occupier only when they encounter a problem in front of the administrative authorities whether state or local. The basic characteristic of all complaints is the length of the procedure, the slowness of administrative procedures and the judiciary. It is also interesting to observe the percentage of completed cases in 2008. Of the 1768 cases of which the office's jurisdiction was 1206, 891, unfounded 274 and premature 41 were established. The largest number of complaints made was the length of the proceedings, and this was the conclusion of the previous 2007 Report. That is why reforms of the judiciary and the state administration have also taken place. Analyzing complaints in administrative areas can be seen to continue to run the judiciary. Then there are complaints concerning the work of the prison system, 177 of them related to violations of working conditions, property-legal relations, but also that there has been a drop in complaints in the area of pension insurance, and the right to renewal. As early as 2007, the Ombudsman claimed that a drop of complaints concerning complaints related to the consequences of the war had been observed. But in 2008, he also pointed out the problem of housing by setting a number of examples. This year, the problem of home care of returnees and exiles was also pointed out, the return of temporarily seized assets, and comments were also made to the work of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, specifically the Administration for the area of special state care and the Agency for the Reconstruction of Family Houses. In particular, the comments relate to non-compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act. I must point out here that citizens in these procedures tend to complain about the longevity of the procedure, but knowing the comprehensiveness of such solutions from property-legal, ownership relations, to personal desires sometimes and without the basis of such a number of complaints is not reduced. The adoption of a new Law on areas of special state care in July 2008 solved many of the problems encountered in the 2007 report. Although the number of complaints about the return is temporarily withdrawn and the compensation to the owners of the temporarily deprived property is reduced not only by some examples, this cannot be considered as a rule. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has started a full reform of the state administration, respecting some of the remarks made in previous reports, and for the purpose of raising the quality of work, financial and material rights of civil servants and subsistence. Of the 1560 new complaints 299 refer to the judiciary. Already in the 2007 Report, we pointed out that the Ministry of Justice was aware of the situation in the judiciary, mainly in the slow resolution of some cases, started a whole series of reform measures from the rationalisation of courts, the adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which entered into force on 1 February 2009 and mainly in education and better quality of the education of judges. In the section of the report concerning the evaluations and proposals of the Ombudsman in the judiciary chapter, we believe that outside of our responsibilities, some proposals related to the work of the judiciary have been handled, so I quote: “Unquality or insufficiently prepared but also laws that have sometimes been influenced by day-to-day political needs and with populist motives prescribed rights that are not realistically realised are a source of a large number of disputes often with a predictable outcome, but only after years of disputes the cases end in the Supreme and Constitutional Court or in the European Court of Human Rights. The lack of both the public work and the lack of objective public criteria of the State Judiciary Council in the appointment and promotion of judges does not give much hope that the quality of the judicial staff will improve in due time. The dissatisfaction of citizens and the public with the situation in the judiciary, with the unwillingness to improve and change things within the system, leads to expectations for intervention and the greater influence of the legislative and executive authorities." It's a finished quote. He's going over the powers of the attorney general himself. Finally, it was to establish that this report was a collection of complaints that occurred in everyday life, almost in all segments of society. This report is a review of the observed and most significant, most numerous reports of violations of citizens' rights, but not a comprehensive display of the state and degree of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. We are certainly in agreement with the need to secure space for the work of the Ombudsman, as well as the necessary resources for the work of the Ombudsman. Realising that any increase in funds is not possible at the time of recession. As a result of more successful monitoring of work and progress in areas from which the largest number of complaints comes, a comparative analysis of the situation of certain infringements of rights should be carried out in order to obtain an image of effective recommendations and proposals for measures taken by the Ombudsman himself, since this methodology as such has already been accepted. Respecting and all in the report, the Croatian Democratic Community Club takes note of the 2008 report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35823	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, distinguished colleague Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35824	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Attorney General, Deputy Secretary of State. We talk about this report by the Ombudsman every year and we talk about some sort of continuity because its evaluations are based on both content and methodology, and we can first of all connect it to a series that is very similar, which is very well-founded and which deserves respect. I'm going to say here in a few ways what we like as a club of SDSS and people, not who we represent, but people whose problems we feel, no matter who they are. So, you've tangled us with that torment of an ordinary man in mind. First of all, I want to say that traditionally, it seems to me that we can qualify just like that. The Attorney General here comes before us with a report and content that presents a critical approach and a critically reasoned, critical approach to the situation in society in matters in which ordinary human rights are decided, whether or not it is about protecting his rights, whether it is about producing someone's individual rights which is done by the state mechanism. He deserves the respect of the attorney general and for this method and for this tenacity, methodology and tenacity, and for his and his expertise, I also find human honesty in the treatment of the problem that enters his report. We're estimating it as traditional in a few years in a row. The second thing, the attorney general speaks of details in a way that gives a series of illustrations. But it's even more about the system, so the state mechanism that decides the fate of this little individual, the fate of each individual, the atmosphere and the habits of these issues. And I don't think there's much to agree that it's a sensitive issue and that it's a matter of law enforcement and what deciding on individual fate is not a joke or shouldn't be a joke. Next thing you know, it's also traditional. The Attorney General is proving to be a kind of public conscience. The occupier was also through his reports, and it seems to me past him in public, speaking grades, his grades and talking about phenomena that are socially relevant. And the next thing I know, it's traditional. The Attorney General, regardless of how we stand here in his report, has received public sympathy. And he didn't get them because of the public defender's hairstyle and his deputies, but he won them with his performances and what it says in these reports. The second thing that's important here is what the attorney general has repeatedly pointed to. He's talking about how the socio-state mechanism works. And that means the mechanism in that section called the rule of law, which is called law enforcement, which is called respect for the law, which is called respect for my right which is recorded in the law. He's talking about a state mechanism where individuals are paid to law enforcement and paid to protect me in what's called protecting my rights, guaranteed by laws. And when we're doing some kind of projection here, then what a public defender has written to us here for years and why he's brought arguments says that this mechanism doesn't fit or doesn't fit to the extent that he has to worry. And that assessment and that message can't, I'm very sure, can't, as it's just said here. The third thing that's important and important and that I want to point out here. First of all, in this report and these reports, because I can keep speaking, I have the will to speak in continuity. The occupier is talking about vulnerable groups, vulnerable individuals and vulnerable groups. This means that it speaks of the powerless, of those who cannot help themselves and have no acquaintances who can help them, who must be helped by the state, as it is said, by official duty. It's about the powerless, it's about the marginalized and these illustrations that you've given here, as I would say, illustrations as drawn, in my opinion, in terms of what they say and when it comes to individual cases, but also when it comes to the phenomenon that we have to assume. Because the moment it appears then of course we have to worry and make an alarm. And one more thing I have to say here. I think, no matter how we talk about the report of the occupier's attorney thinks and speak, whether it's a method, whether it's content, what's written here is credible. I think it's credible. The fourth thing I'm going to say here about this report. A report by the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of China said what could be said to be the legal state's legitimacy could be called the state's legitimacy. The legislation of the state in the matter, in the matter of the important issue called the protection of citizens, especially the threatened, powerless, marginalized, in the matters in which the state is obliged, and its officials paid to take care of it. And from what it says in the report of the Attorney General, but also from the many materials that we have received on our benches, I think we can also speak from personal experiences that there are a lot of people in the state apparatus who adorn insolence and boast, and they are actually paid to protect legality. And on that issue, we don't have good observations, we don't have good surveillance, and I mean, now I'm going to say a little rough word, we don't have enough persecution like this or those who don't do their job the way we should. And on the other hand, when you come before a proud clerk in the role and in the position of an powerless man, the result of that duel is fully known. I, when it comes to a small number of cases, even though one is important, should not be making any noise. I repeat, in one case, incompetence should be lifted. But here, the reason for the noise is because of what's going on. In some environments and in some cases, it's an epidemic. No matter how we boasted about the report by the Attorney General yesterday, no matter what we look at him today, no matter how we stand up to him tomorrow, but the lessons learned from that report have not been properly learned. I'm afraid and that's my fifth comment here, I'm afraid because our practice and some other documents and some other experiences, but also the report by the Attorney General points to two segments of importance. One question is the state administration, the other is the question of the judiciary. Here you have numerous examples that speak of non-resolvement within a reasonable time frame, we do not go to meet strangers even if the law says so, we do not do according to official duty what I can as an official, and I am obliged, but to harass the parties, not to talk about making a measurement decision in such a way and in our own way not respecting the fate of the party and what it says in the law. We spoke in this House on many occasions, for example. in the judiciary. It is enough to say that the Constitutional Court is today making numerous judgments by punishing the state with some small or large money because it is not some case in the judiciary resolved within a reasonable period of time, and it is three years and more. That says enough. And you know, if we have that condition in the mechanism, then it could be a kind of political-psychological corruption. Many officials act as political-psychologically corrupt people, and if we combine that with the corruption of the general type that we're talking about here, then I'm afraid it's extremely dangerous, to be the mildest. In the end, I'm just going to say this about how we're going to set ourselves up against the Attorney General's report. I am convinced that if we just take note of the report by the Attorney General, then we have not taken into account the problems the report is talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35825	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35826	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Attorney General's Office, colleagues and colleagues. Introducing maybe two notes. It is usually considered that the most advanced definition of the modern state is based on two points. One is a free market with clear legal frameworks and another high standards in the protection of human and civil rights. Regardless of all other ideologies and all other variations politically depending on which political option is in power, these two fundamental postulates apply to all civilized modern states and absolutely our goal must be to begin to apply to us. As for high standards in the protection of human and civil rights, the only measure of civil rights protection, I think we have discussed this several times here in the Parliament, the only measure of quality of protection of human rights is actually the protection of minority rights. Irregular minorities are not only national or ethnic minorities that we most often talk about here, but minorities in the most different criteria and in every sense the words of age, regional, educational, based on disability, physical, based on a variety of different criteria that a group of people or a person is classified in a group where they are in a minority society. And by that standard of coworker and colleague, we're all a minority or we'll be a minority at some point in our lives, either because of age, or because of some problem we're going to face. Therefore, this report by the attorney general speaks of violations and problems with the protection of human rights, people who, at any point, have found themselves in the minority. As far as the report itself is concerned, there is a well-known saying that reads, dogs bark, and the caravan passes. This, applying this report, would be translated, the attorney general warns, and governments pass. This report or this type of report with similar problems and similar emphasis we have had before in the Parliament. We've commended all the occupiers and it seems that nothing or at least nothing significant has happened in this regard. As for the work of the attorney-general and the institution of the Public Attorney's Office, it is obvious that the occupier has affirmed the institution in international frameworks. It is mentioned that it is accredited with the highest status A as a national institution for the protection of human rights, a full member of Aquinta, etc. It is obvious that the attorney general is constantly promoting independence and independence in work. So it's a big accent, and I'd say by the reactions to a report by the occupier's attorney, it's pretty independent and independent in the work and finding or trying to find the right measure of criticism and cooperation against the system's institutions. The Ombudsman’s Office and the Ombudsman themselves show the tenacity and perseverance in serving citizens, wrestling with slowness and negligence in the administration and bodies with public authority. The occupier is dedicated to all aspects of human rights, which can be recognised by both the comprehensiveness and the widespread topics and the problems he is dealing with. The Office of the Public Prosecutor shall encourage the authorities of the State Administration and bodies with public authority, but shall also treat the employees of those bodies and bodies. It therefore initiates the adoption of laws, initiates the possible adoption of the necessary regulations, regulations, norms of procedures, to seek disciplinary measures towards officials who do not behave in accordance with norms and laws. 82% of last year's complaints were resolved. In itself, it says something about the way the attorney general works and works. It is interesting that the complaints have almost proved to be established, therefore established, which is a far greater percentage of the complaints established than in the countries of developed democracy. And that is in itself an indicator of the state of human rights and the quality of public administration. Now, what does the government say about the work of the attorney general, and what do the parliamentary committees say? Perhaps in view of yesterday's performance, the new prime minister should ask for a new opinion from the new government. Because yesterday, before being elected here, the prime minister specifically stressed the need for a high level of protection of human rights and her personal involvement in the protection of human rights. And since the old government has given one opinion that can be called semi-negative or semi-positive however you like, so as last time, neither accepted nor accepted, but taken into account, perhaps the new Government would give a different opinion on this report by the attorney general, so I suggest we consider that possibility, so one government which, as one of its main objectives, cited the need to protect human rights at a high level. Which is the old government's reaction, because just with the old government's opinion here, the situation is recognizable. So, when it happens that an institution is functioning, it is therefore suspicious, so it works according to what it is intended to do and what the objectives of this institution are. The government, the old government, I point out, this year's report by the attorney general took note, the parliamentary committees split up. One accepts the report, others take it into consideration, the third, as they say, is familiar with the report. Obviously, one rather dissonant situation because no one knows exactly what that report would say. It seems that with this view, the government is making it clear that it is not holding much or old government I must stress that it has not kept much to the Office of the People's Army or the Ombudsman's institution, but there is also one inequality in the views of the committee that some held last year's conclusion and the Parliament's decision regarding the report of the ombudsman, some have been set up in another way. However, I would say that such an attitude is more indicative of the problem, so it shows quite clearly what the problem is. The occupier's office, according to his mission, brings unpleasant news. So, it brings news of human rights violations where the situation is bad, where it needs to be intervened, something needs to be fixed, and instead of being treated as the basis for intervention and the basis for new policies or policy change trying to move it under the carpet somehow and this time. The Ombudsman's report warns of the length of judicial and administrative proceedings and it is obvious that this longevity of judicial and administrative proceedings is clearly an eclectic violation of human rights. It is about procedures that are too long to overcome any reasonable time limit in resolving administrative matters. And that is why it is not strange for citizens to seek protection not only from the attorney general but also from the European Court of Human Rights. Citizens in that court generally achieve their satisfaction, gain satisfaction and exercise certain material rights. But what is important for this debate is the fact that the problem of long-term court proceedings is dealt with by the European Court of Human Rights. However, when the Ombudsman reaches out to this problem and proposes measures to address these problems, he is found to be incompetent and his report is not accepted. And if the European Court of Human Rights also gives these prosecutors material satisfaction, it is clear that it is a matter of human rights and, if it is a matter of human rights, it is clear that it is competent and should be the attorney of the public. We have similar remarks from the ruling when warning about the depolitisation of administrative services. Advocating for professionalism, ability, professionalism and ethics in the work of administrative bodies is in fact advocating the basic principles or constitutional principles of equality of citizens before the law, and that is the fundamental problem that a public defender absolutely must deal with. Within the problems mentioned in this report on behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to warn you of two, I think that a specific problem has already been mentioned before and would not be critical of the attorney general because it mentions specific problems because human rights are specific problems rather than just principle phrases. Therefore, there is no good and relevant report by the Ombudsman without a list of specific problems. So, one group of citizens, the problem that has absolutely reached, and international visibility are citizens who have filed charges against third parties under one law for damages to assets outside of war activities. After that, the law was changed, people not only lost litigation under the new law but were destined to pay astronomical court costs. The Constitutional Court once stated by its decision or opinion that they should be exempt from paying those costs, but this has not happened until today and hundreds of people are exposed to the tasks. I must say that even the National Committee in the context of the debate on the chapter – the judiciary and fundamental rights has sent a letter to the attorney general warning of this problem. Another problem already mentioned here is the issue of inequality of disability status, which is not estimated by the basis of the degree of disability but by the basis of the origin of disability, a built-in problem of injustice in our system. What can be done? Obviously, the issue of regional exposures is crucial for the occupier's staff because the whole goal is for the occupier to be available to citizens and not for it to be as far away from the citizens as possible. And the second question is whether in this situation, we really need all these special and separate attorneys such as gender equality, for children, for disabled people and especially for public defenders, or whether it would be more reasonable for it to be united under the Office of the Public Attorney as deputy attorney for certain areas because what to do about a woman with a disabled house being torn down. Thank you. I'm sorry, but of course the HNS will support this report by the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35827	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative of counterpart Goran Heffer. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35828	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Attorney General, the distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. On the one hand, the 2008 report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman gives us a review of the work of the institution of the Ombudsman and a demonstration of the degree of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the same year, so in 2008, of course, the Ombudsman of the public during his work last year. At first, I will say that the SDP club will accept, and not only take note of this report, since there are no objections regarding its content and its scope, although it should be said that the noticeable difference in the scope of this year's report compared to last year's reports for some hundred pages, which, of course, can be justified by a minor display of details or individual cases in this report. But even more can be seen as a consequence of a bad one, and I would say the extremely inappropriate Croatian Parliament policy expressed in changing relations with the Ombudsman during last year. As is known, then the Croatian Parliament decided by the ruling majority, so the HDZ and partner representatives made a decision to take the report to the Ombudsman's attention instead of the usual acceptance or not to accept such a single report, which was sent on the one hand to the Advocate General, but I would also say that a message was sent to the entire public who is following what the Ombudsman is doing, which is what he deals with and which cases he is showing. Such a stepmom, I would also say, a humiliating attitude towards the Ombudsman was continued in the form of not providing sufficient resources for field work, and thus disabling its sufficient presence on the ground during 2008, but unfortunately this year as well. This shows the general position of this state government towards an institution that represents the last haven for citizens in the exercise of their fundamental rights. The SDP advocates' club has this view as inappropriately important to the institution of the occupier, and we must say that it also agreed to part of the parliamentary committees, since we have seen that from those who discussed the three committees also accepted the report of the Ombudsman, two have therefore taken note, and one parliamentary committee in the presentation of Mr Kunst has concluded that irregularities are being identified and that measures are being taken to remove them. With regard to the content of this report, the SDP club praises its correctness and its objectivity, but as regards the state of civil rights presented, the club expresses its concern over the way and number of their infringements, and insufficient protection by state institutions, as this report also points out in a warning manner. According to the report, 1560 complaints were received in 2008, which is about 20% lower than in the previous 2007 year. This reduction of complaints does not mean that human rights violations are also less, but unfortunately I have just said the consequence of the alleged restriction on the ability of the attorney general to work. It is precisely because of the fact that this is one of the occasions in which the highest political level discusses the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, the debate on the report by the Ombudsman is a very important point of the agenda in the Croatian Parliament. This point should therefore not pass as one of the routine points which, after the debate has been carried out, only ends up being taken off the agenda in a way that has been taken into account. We therefore believe that this report is extremely important and sensitive, because through it a certain picture is given in Croatia, which as we know, predicates with full right of entry into the European Union. The more the report shows, the more the Ombudsman's institution experienced this full European affirmation over the last year, and beyond that. But unfortunately, the state government, at least the previous one, in terms of respecting the work of this institution, does not represent much. We hope, and here I join Mrs Pusic that the new government will show more sensitivity and understanding for the work of the attorney general. As regards the problems raised in this report and the above examples, it is evident that the long-term sustainability of administrative procedures under different public representations remains the biggest problem in the work of the administrative bodies. In the case of a certain administrative dispute, any solution or negative solution is difficult in Croatia. Or worse, not only is it difficult to come to a solution, but it is difficult to get information about the course of the procedure and what is most important to the citizens in which it all goes. It is obvious that the administration does not apply to a sufficient extent the principle of administrative procedure or any other specific provision. It is clear that the legal period in the first degree is not always possible to respect, but it is unacceptable not to inform the party of this or to know at what stage the whole process is. A number of examples shown in this report show that certain information on the state of the proceedings was not only possible for citizens, but could not be obtained by a public defender. So he couldn't even get the authority of the Croatian Parliament to protect the rights of citizens from the authorities of the administration. It is known that most of the proceedings end before the Administrative Court where they last for and for many years, presenting an epathetic example of human rights violations, as the public defender has repeatedly pointed out in his reports for a number of years. While daily, and this report is very visible, various judicial games happen with damaged citizens through impunity, abandonment of cases of limitations, delay in solving cases by different legal or linguistic manipulations, it should be said that Europe has seen such practice in the right light and has taken certain steps towards interrupting such proceedings. It is known that certain claims brought in Croatia through all reasonable deadlines have also been brought before the European Court of Human Rights. Certain judgments have been taken there to establish, inter alia, the infringement of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and, above all, because of the length of proceedings in administrative courts. This shows Croatia's citizens that in the case of abnormally long court proceedings they should not even wait for all legal procedures in the Croatian judiciary to be fulfilled, but that they can address the European institution in demand of justice. Therefore, it is for Croatian citizens to say so, do not seek justice in front of their courts, seek it before the European Court because you will get justice more quickly and safely there, and I would say more favourably than in your own country. This could also be called a Croatian judicial debacle, since in this situation, no one is spared in such judgments, not by the judicial institutions, not by the Ministry of Justice, not by the Croatian Government, and I would say neither the Croatian Parliament before which today is the authority to protect citizens' rights again report on what he was doing during 2008 and again points to the same problem, which is a violation of human rights, but also the responsibility of the state for the problem. The adverse impact of such events on Croatia's reputation in Europe should not even be mentioned in particular. The consequences of such European judgments are mainly the huge costs that the Republic of Croatia needs to pay to damaged citizens. Such behaviour of the administrative authorities and courts is described in the examples in this report, showing how much damage it brings to society as a whole, their work. Such a situation, with the lack of effective measures of internal and external control mechanisms and constant supervision, raises the question and the full implementation of constitutional principles of equality before law and legal certainty, and thus the rule of law. It is clear to all of us that this is a fertile basis for corruption in all its forms, that this is a fertile basis for a particular kind of social discrimination and division in society, since the long-term nature of the proceedings is primarily reflected negatively on so-called. Little people. So, to ordinary people who have more modest material opportunities, while those who are more wealthy, who are more powerful are always able. They manage to find a way to judgments that often contribute to them. Very often, such paths are more powerful and richer in subjection, so-called. corrupt methods. That corruption and clientelism in the spheres of administration and justice are very high, and that the result of high politicism that comes from the teaming of personnel, as stated by the public defender of political, or party similarities and personal loyalty, is rare from... The guy doesn't need much talking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, something like this and a similar teaming we saw here at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament, at some of the previous sessions, so it's nothing new. And that corruption is one of the biggest, if not the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia, should not be particularly stressed since this has already been pointed out more than once from the European Union. I would like to remind you that about a month ago, corruption can complicate Croatia's path to the European Union, said Olli Rehn, European Commissioner for Enlargement of the European Union. I would like to remind you that the recent Transparency International report presented citizens' opinion that the judiciary is the most corrupt sector in Croatia. The Ombudsman's report also points to a number of applications containing elements of discrimination based on nationality and ethnic origin. It should not in particular be stressed that the key to protecting human rights in Europe is to protect against ethnic, racial, sexual, age, social and all other forms of discrimination. Therefore, the conduct of the Advocate General in accordance with the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination is a very important aspect of improving the work of the Advocates. But it is unfortunately an extension of powers without expanding the basis for using them. Since, as I said earlier, the area of action has been increased, and the funds have been reduced. So you have a chance to deal with another area, but you won't get the funds for it. By observing the report in legal areas, according to the number of complaints, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, i.e. its two administrations, the Administration of the Special Government and the Agency for the Reconstruction of Family Houses, has been particularly highlighted. Unfortunately, that's not news. The report shows that the number of complaints on the work of these administrations has not been reduced for years. The structure of these complaints is changed, but, of course, irregularities are not removed, but they continue. It's becoming a rule of conduct. The lack of compliance with the law in the administrative procedure is the most represented in these administrations to the extent that some new, law-based, unknown practices such as post-administrative procedures are introduced, and all with a view to making the most of the delay in the resolution of administrative acts required by citizens. This mode of work of the administration has been unacceptable to as many years as possible and has been pointed out by the Ombudsman. Let me take a little comment. Namely, as a representative from Vukovar-Srijem County, one of the Croatian counties that during the Homeland War and Pores were hit hard by major war destruction and numerous human tragedies. I must express regret that the largest number of items that go through these two administrations are from that area. So people who have experienced great tragedies during the war are now experiencing a new tragedy in the exercise of their rights. The majority of complaints from citizens are related to the restoration of family homes and the housing of citizens in areas of special state care. One of the special places in this report in the field of work of the Directorate for Special State Care shall be the city of Vukovar. I'd say unfortunately again the city of Vukovar. Since the completion of the peaceful reintegration process, various forms of civil rights violations have been taking place for years, and without a visible deadline for proper completion. It is likely that everyone already knows the problems of paying the reserve, and the Constitutional Court's decision in favour of the citizens of Vukovar, which cannot be realised because of the obstruction of local self-government and local self-government until these local elections. It is also known that the problem of buying out Vukovar apartments by former tenants represents an example of the inequality of citizens before the law and of preventing the exercise of their rights under the same conditions as the citizens who lived in the free areas of the Republic of Croatia. In both cases, it is a large number of citizens. It's a couple thousand citizens. This is about large financial resources related to solving these problems. Given the current state of development, employment, the standard of life of the people of Vukovar, I have rightly said unfortunately. Here, since my time is running out I'll repeat and conclude. The SDP advocates club praises and accepts the report of the Ombudsman, warning once again that such an unacceptable state of civil rights must not be tolerated further, and that the state is obliged to ensure constitutional and legal equality of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35829	Thank you very much, fellow representative. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35830	Thank you very much. A colleague, Heffer, said, warned and pointed to a machete, quote on the maternal relationship of the Croatian Assembly towards the Ombudsman in relation to the labour resources insufficient for the tour of the terrain. Dear fellow Heffer, it is incorrect and I cannot agree with it for a reason, you also mentioned in 2007 and 2008 because last year in my 2007 report in the 2007 report, I pointed out that the report by the Ombudsman is only being held on planned means and we do not know, it does not give in the 2007 Report or in the 2008 Report no amount of expenditure, so I will tell you that for the last year it was, for 2007 of the planned 6 million 242 thousand 900 kuna in the 2007 budget, 5 million or 90,26% was spent, and I asked the question of where the difference occurred and why, I did not get the answer then, and in the 2008 report, where it says that the work in the office in 2008, 6 million or 90,26% was provided in the state budget, and I did not receive a statement from the public authority that it was necessary for the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35831	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, distinguished representative of colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35832	Dear gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy attorney general. Here, one case. Today, Mr Rohatinski said that Croatia needs 42 billion gross to finance a 14 billion kuna deficit. Now, who's going to protect human rights like the one that the state has been trying to lower the salary to, say, 10%, and the banks on the other hand raise the interest by 20%, so the next day, they're going to find themselves in a situation where they won't be able to service the debt to pay off their apartment, so the day after tomorrow they'll be tenants? No one. Today, de facto 2 million people are at risk, today 2 million people should report to the public defender on the daily basis. However, the number of cases received according to this report in 2008 was even smaller than those received in 2007. In 2007, we now see here in this table we had 1878 received objects, and in 2008. 1560. And now you're a normal man, which list of this report, which has been sitting in this House for years, asks the question why is that? I think that's because the institution of the occupier, unfortunately, is in this country without any excessive influence. You gentlemen in the civil defender's office, you're in the position of our representative, perhaps something better, you clearly have some card, some car, you have some office, you have a paid cell phone, etc. So you got something, we got nothing. You can look for something like us as agents, you can run something, but actually a little bit of it, let's face it, we can solve both. In one word, no matter how hard you try, you have little to help and that is the problem of the Croatian state as a whole. That we simply have institutions that are inefficient, which are for the sake of order, and in fact they are essential and until we strengthen these institutions, happiness in this country will not be. When it is, and obviously it is, it is not to be surprised why, year by year, fewer cases are with the Ombudsman, but that's why we see her from year to year more and more defender institutions, than the one for gender equality, over the one for the children, over the one for the disabled to the clearly roofed arraignor himself. I'm personally thinking that you should put it all under one hat. Don't think today, especially at the time of this crisis about new lawyers, either for the defenders, which I know, pensioners, students, the media, in one word, the public defender should have 3, 4, 5 departments because I would like to know what some of you are doing then. Looks like most complaints about work, we see justice. For what? Because of the length of the procedure. And what does the D.A. do? Then again, the lawyer sends recommendations, warnings, asks for some advice. One word is sent to the presidents of the courts, and the results are neither there nor there will be. So you're here in the same position as us MPs when we ask a parliamentary question, you go to the minister, these to the secretary of state, then they to the county or I don't know which court and I actually ate the time I ate that case. And I agree, that position of yours eventually becomes schizophrenic, like us, an agent where we can't do anything, but there's absolutely no dilemma. The institutions have to exist, we have to exist because it's a guarantee of democracy, it costs, but without it, chances in the country would probably be worse than they are now, even though they shouldn't be looking worse than what we have today. And then what is it to do, say, to that crackly defense attorney? It's not doing anything, it's doing nothing, it's not working, it's seeing the effect is the same thing. And it's a tragedy of our moment. What's amazing is that even pensioners who have the most time actually don't complain too much in this report. By the way, year after year, they're getting less and less, and they're complaining. And they see that there is simply no salvation in Croatia. In 2004, they filed 536 complaints, 2005. 436, 2006. 343, 2007. 258 complaints, 2008. 158 complaints. Someone will say that my cynicism, I don't know, isn't appropriate, but we all know that I'm not far from the truth. Where were the most complaints in 2008 compared to 2007? Someone will say that institutions are doing better and that there are fewer cases, but the truth is that civil servants are growing from year to year, and that because they are year to year, they are increasingly rebelling. Then, there are persons deprived of liberty. I suppose not those convicted by the Croatian court, and the sanctuary was sought by dual citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they have nothing to object to, then I said state officials. Health care also has two more cases that have been looking for something and there are some property-legal relations. We have fewer complaints everywhere else. Maybe it works better, I don't know. But we're going in a row now. Refurbishment, so what we've irrefutablely lit in, say, Storm, we're rebuilding now. Clearly, we are renewing what was destroyed in Milosevic's aggression. Otherwise, in 2008, the Defence Ministry had a budget of 6.2 billion kuna. It is the indirect war damage of 5% of the Republic of Croatia's budget, which we must permanently ensure clearly, there is no dilemma. It's strange that there's no so-called "supervised" in this report. Protected tenants, or I couldn't find them. They kind of fell out of this report. On page 89, we're talking about the property seized during the South-Communist rule, which is okay, but there's no mention of any protected tenants who are citizens in this country, I dare say second row, and tomorrow when they're thrown out on the street, if that happens, there won't be any citizens, but marva without home, no memories, no property, etc. Right, many in nationalization in '47, '48, '49. Unforgivable injustice has been committed, but for the actions of others today should the protected tenants be paid. Make sure the owners get paid. How? From the budget. There's no budget. Maybe there's some property on the coast, in some military properties, I don't know, and these let's make it possible to buy out an apartment where they live for 40, 50 or 60 years. There can be no justice in this case, there will never be justice for both sides. That's clear. But correcting injustice in a way that we produce injustice for others, I don't think it's allowed at least to be amoral. Why am I saying that? Well, there's whole families in those apartments, no more self-management. No, we said it was bad. When you got the social apartment, it should've been removed. No, when you got a safe job, etc., but now in those apartments are mostly people who are over 60, over 70 years old, there are their children, their grandchildren, I don't know who everything is. The holders of that household law, I said, are people who are usually over 60, over 70 years old. Where can these people at that age solve their existence or apartment? So let's not play games with these people. There's one more thing being kept quiet, and clearly no one's talking about it. It's an audit of the conversion. Turns out everything in Croatia was clean, nobody was clearly in prison, nobody was accused, nothing was disputed in that audit, nothing was disputed in politics, tycoons were where they were, they became pillars of society, and then what are we going to do. That's how it is. That's why we fought in this country. Now a typical Istrian object. At the disposal of agricultural land. '93. In the year, all agricultural land ended up as state land, and previously owned by the then municipalities. So today the municipalities have building land, and the state has all the rest, these are tourist land, clearly for which tycoons do not pay even kuna fees, and they use hundreds and hundreds of hectares along the coast. It's agricultural land, it's forest land. I ask myself why he doesn't want to get rid of the status of the tourist land already? On the other hand, our county does not have a single square metre of agricultural, forest, construction or so on. tourist land. Now, that's the point. The average price of state agricultural land, in Croatia last year, was 0.27 euros. In one Bavaria, in one Frijulia, in one Koruska, the price was between 4 and 7 euros. In Luxembourg's richest state, the average agricultural land price was around 11 euros in the calculation of the economic institute, i.e. Professor Lovrincevic. But the state to Istrian farmers, meaning the state land of sale, imagine 14.5 euros on average. It's, let's be cynical honestly, typically means Croatian. I think that should change, I think that the allocation of funds from the state budget also needs to change in this country, not that all funds go exclusively towards those regions that correspond to those that are in central government. And now that we're also talking about health care, I'm asking you, Mr. Pugid's Attorney General, that's the case in 2009, not in 2008, I agree, to see why Minister Milinovic, general hospital in Pula, reduces the limits by 15%, and at the same time increases the limits by 5%. He sets himself up as a man, so as someone treats that part of the Republic of Croatia. Aren't we all in Croatia the same? Doesn't a patient in Pula deserve the same standard as he has, I don't know, a patient in another general hospital across the Republic of Croatia. Now, third problem. Why today, at this time, when we have one shipyard that is liquid, solvent, which operates without subsidies, or without guarantees, and the other spends what is earned there, should be privatised. That's the problem, I'm calling it, the relationship between the central government and the space that they don't vote for, and it should also be talked about in some way. I think we all are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35833	At the Attorney General's. With a report from the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35834	I think that all of us here, and you, Mr. Vice President, will agree that the policy of centralization that is at work is a policy of pressure on some parts and that it needs to be changed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35835	It may be discussed, but not with the Attorney General's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35836	So we have to open up that topic, but we're not doing it, and probably what the chances are in this country to k, citizens really don't talk here in front of the Ban Courts and the Parliament about it won't even be discussed. For the end of the club IDS accepts this report. We see that on the other hand HDZ takes it into consideration. Why this distance? What's the issue here? For me, the growing marginalization is in the work of the Attorney General, and they don't bother anyone. From year to year, they are discussing a growing number of cases or perhaps it is now in action that someone in the ruling coalition does not like Mr. Malcic, who was, in his time, a minister if I am not mistaken, and in HDZ's power, and now needs to change him. All in all, once again, the IDS Club will accept this report. We're not 100% satisfied with that either. We believe that the intensity of the work is dropping, but I also don't see the reasons for what a crisscrossing maneuvering position is taking place, which is why most of us simply don't accept this report, but only takes note.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35837	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mrs. Representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35838	Thank you very much. A colleague, Cain, commented on the decline in the number of complaints from the Mirovinski Insurance, said "and the pensioners give up seeking protection from the rights of pad to the attorney general". My dear colleague, that's not true. The pensioners do not give up, but the Croatian government has paid back the pensioners over the past period and therefore their demands, their complaints to the Ombudsman are much less than a year-on-year, as is evident from this 2008 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35839	And Mr. Representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35840	... The state does not sell agricultural land. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So, based on the old Agricultural Land Act and the new Agricultural Land Act, agricultural land was given to the management of local self-government units. Local self-government units are developing programmes on the availability of agricultural land, the Ministry of Agriculture agrees, the tender is being opened, the municipal or city council is taking a decision on the most favourable offer, and the Ministry gives its consent again, etc. means state not, but local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35841	And let's not have a colleague of Cain's right now. You know when he was a self-government attorney, then reports of self-government defenders came in, and from year to year, there was an increase in complaints and representations of workers on violations of workers' rights, labour rights, and then, in this assembly, the Ombudsman estimated that the increase in the number of performances, complaints and complaints sent to the Ombudsman points to trust in the socialist justice system and political. Because it's an expression of trust, an increase in numbers, an expression of trust. ... And we have the data. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is that right, colleague Leko, remember? Individual debate and Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35842	Dear colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen. All right, colleague Cain, we'll figure this country out later. Agriculture, not now. Every year when we get this report from the attorney general, I read it, read it and approach it as a report from the authority of the Croatian Parliament. For the sake of the affairs of the occupancy, the occupier shall establish the name we gave him or the authority to do so and ask him to report to us every year, in order to hope that he will agree with it, that report shall indicate where the holes in the system, where the errors in the laws or sublaws are, or where they work, poor, incompetent, unprofessional or corrupt officials, deputies, officials depending on who they are. I'm experiencing this report that way. And if I were to say that I was taking him into knowledge, I'd give you a message and you'd just keep writing, but as soon as you don't bother the Parliament with the long debates. We'll secure the money in the budget, and you'll have the staff's fill. It's all good, but don't write too much. 1786 completed cases of 562 in the jurisdiction of the judiciary. That's if I'm not mistaken so far, the biggest number that's ever come to you, and it's about the domain of the judiciary. And the most common objections were the longevity of the procedure. A year ago, I remember two times, and in this assembly there was a debate or possibility and constitutional changes, in order for the Ombudsman to have power over the cases of the judiciary that are now missing. And then that debate was interrupted very quickly and it never opened again. You write that people are talking to you because they couldn't get the information they wanted, they couldn't get the administrative documents, but often you couldn't get the administrative documents you asked for. That you gave 232 tips, 163 recommendations and 327 warnings. This is the only weapon you have at your disposal to give warnings, but I am saddened by the fact that this number of warnings is growing year after year, and I am not familiar with any case that any official, who is the boss of the one for whom you had to issue the warning, carried out a sanction of such behaviour against someone who is guilty. I can't believe that in all 327 cases was a failure due to a large amount of work or vacation or sick leave. So, the sad fact is that Croatia has one body system that can be useful, useful because it warns of problems, but that, apart from the Parliament, no one reads your report, not even the Government. I am not far from proposing to propose amendments and to supplement the law to the Ombudsman and to give you the active right to submit applications for both violations and criminal offences. If it will help and strengthen your position, why not do so. But something you warned, not just you, but also the former prime minister and the former government, and yet it's gone out of public interest is in the area of pension insurance. In fact, you warn that the '99 pension reform and the introduction of a second degree pension insurance did not follow an adequate simulation of the actual events of those entering the second pillar of pension insurance. I'm going to quote three essential sentences. Furthermore, it is questionable whether presentations and simulations of the reform of the pension system of the competent institutions of the former Ministry of Labour and Social Care, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Pension Insurance Agency, have shown all the illogicalities that are now taking place in the implementation of the reform. And you remind yourself that in the said 21st century Croatian Development Strategy, it was planned to carry out an analysis and redefine the pension system in 2006. So, I repeat. In 2006, seven years of implementation of the pension reform, and the formation of the second pension pillar, it was necessary to analyse everything that the reform has brought, and then already in 2006, to approach certain changes. In 2006, the analysis was not made, but it had to happen that about 30 workers and workers received a pension solution from the second pillar somewhere in the first wave when they realized that these pensions were two diaries. And then there was an alarm in the Croatian public, and former Prime Minister Sanader announced even the possibility of abolishing the second pillar of pension insurance. But what is the saddest fact is that at the moment of the second pillar of pension insurance, a significant number of insurance workers entered the second pillar without having to enter. And they can't get out of the second pillar and fix their situation but are the other prisoners of a system that was not defined, which was not well simulated and whose consequences were not known in 98 when the reform was introduced and in 2006 there was no simulation. What about these people? You gentlemen suggest changing the law and giving these insurance companies the opportunity to return to security based on solidarity, generation solidarity. I really think that at this point, it is the only way these people can avoid the fate that has been imposed because of the bad regulations and the failure of the authorities both executive and legislative. But we have one common problem. And you and I calculated that the second pillar would bring well-being to the insurance company in 2030, you said 2035 in the report. I went to count on years of personal insurance, and anyone in the second pillar below 24 years of insurance will have a lower pension than if he stayed in generation solidarity. Only after 24 years will insurance in the second pillar be zero and, therefore, at least for one kuna, a higher pension will be made after 25 years of payment of the contributions. And now I'm asking myself how it's possible that no one in this country has spoken to people and said the second pension column is rentable to you after 25 years and everyone who doesn't have to go into this we recommend you not to go in. Moreover, there was a campaign where the second pillar was shown to be exclusively positive, and in a way, it also persuaded people to do so. And our other common problem is next. According to retirement records, what has been known so far has been accumulated by 150 retired women, obviously it was a textile and shoe industry, I suppose. That 150 figure is obviously too small to hurt someone's head because it's thought to be a problem only if the consequences of a short at least 100,000 people. We are still in a society that we do not realize that when an injustice is experienced by one single citizen of this country that we need to correct the system so that these 150 unfortunate women who serve us as an example of the bad consequences of the pension system are not critical enough, they are not an interesting policy because they cannot be crucial in the elections. So it's going to work out when someone realizes that they're getting bigger and bigger so that they can possibly bring a number of votes in the election and by then they're gone. And every day, the departure of one single man in retirement who was in the second pillar and did not have to be paid to believe the executive and legislative authority of the Republic of Croatia who cheated on him. That's why he knows, now we all know because you warned, and we don't want to change anything. We don't want to change anything. My fellow Members, when you raise your hand to this report without the conclusion that the government is obliged to offer an urgent change to the pension system, you have raised your hand to make these 150 known and 150 other times the people of this country's citizens are damaged because of such a system and the Ombudsman has warned you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35843	Thank you. There was no correction. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35844	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected assistants, deputy attorney general, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let's go from the end. Namely, the ruling party does not want to accept a report by the Croatian Parliament's occupier. We have a situation that the civil defender is the commissioner of this House, this House, and he, under that authority, has, by law, determined the state of play in the report, hence the state of human rights and fundamental freedoms on the basis of individual cases addressed to the Ombudsman. So this is not a complete picture of the state of human rights and the achievement of fundamental freedoms. It's a picture by the occupier's institution. But surely this picture is indicative, and it could be said that the situation is worse than the attorney general claims, because not everyone was talking to the attorney general who pulled a thicker end than the state. So, we have a situation that the rulings do not accept the views of the attorney general, although they are based on the facts of individual cases. So we have a schizophrenic situation. The Parliament is in charge of taking control of the government and the government. On the basis of a report from the Ombudsman, it would be necessary to take measures and sometimes sanctions. And we have a situation that the ruling say is that we disagree with it, because if we accept this report we would have to supervise in certain administrative bodies, institutions, and even give the pack to the government. In this situation, only citizens suffer. He ate the donkey wolf for them. A radio public defender, determined the facts because the ruling did not want to listen to what the institution said to whom they gave their trust. If we add to this situation the qualifications stated by the attorney general in his report, I will quote some of them. For example, it is notable that the state that we have in the state administration favours volunteerism, arbitration, willfulness and arbitraryness that in reality raises the constitutional principle of equality for all before the law. All of this affects the weak, the poor, those with no money and influence, so those who have no connection with the rulings or contacts, who most often address the attorney general, while those who have power, influence and money generally make their interests easier and faster in front of the administrative bodies. If this finding is not accurate and based on the experience and work of the Ombudsman during the year on which he submits the report, then I do not believe in the indecisiveness of the ruling ones in order not to initiate the resolution procedure. If she is correct, and I am convinced that she is correct, then we cannot accept that the ruling does not accept this report according to Article 111. The Constitution shall exercise the requested supervision of the work of the national authorities. It's the task of Parliament. Control, control of the government's work. Whether it's one system or another, it's always like that. In view of such circumstances, is it worth spending time and going to the attorney general? Is this the degradation of the institution that we, as representatives of the citizens, have given faith to? It is. No propaganda can solve the problem, nor can spins solve the problem that the Croatian Parliament does not accept the report of the occupier without doing anything else. Such a relationship is the ignoring of the institution, but it is the ignoring and violation of the human rights which is clearly stated by the Ombudsman. The Attorney General very plastically cites problems in the state and public administration in general. If we remember here in the Croatian Parliament, the opening speech of the current and the former Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior when we gave them confidence here, then we cannot remember that they as a fundamental problem of the functioning of the administration asked the Croatian Parliament and received confirmation and confidence that they would depolitize the state administration. In other words, that the exercise of human rights or the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will not be related to the political option, but will be tied to the law. As our expectation that this would happen, the shift of the Director of Police followed. And you know what the people say? Hope, crazy joy. There's no such thing as an attorney general, but the government's moves to depolitize the administration show that the direction is in the other direction. Let's take a look at what else the attorney general warns about. We can't see anything like Parliament. The long-term length of court proceedings is actually a place where it is manipulated by the exercise of citizens' rights. If we have the possibility that a dispute may not end within a reasonable time frame, must we be naive and think that it is always because of the burden? Isn't that the easiest example of corruption and manipulation? Just wait, gentlemen, your justice is not interesting to us. Your interests are not interesting to us. And what do we get here in Parliament? This is where we get the ignoring. I can't accept anything happening, to get the material signed, backed up by facts, evidence and cases, and then say nothing. Okay, it happened, but we don't have to do anything. So what can the citizens do, what can the citizens expect from us? I can expect what happens often to lose confidence in both politics and politicians and the institutions of the state, but the worst is when you lose confidence in those you choose. And we're really chosen by the citizens, they've given us trust, and then we're easy to trust, easy to play. It is a serious thing to say that the state administration is politicised, that it selectively solves cases, that the court does not solve them in order but can do as it pleases and that the representative body has no opinion, but ignores and says we will take note and then nothing. I can't agree with that and I'm telling you in public. This report should be accepted, a smaller group should be tasked. In any case, at least it should be decided by the Government, this is where discrimination is mentioned on a national basis, at least by the government giving us an answer for what and what it has done to get rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35845	Thank you. Replica Mr. Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35846	Dear colleague Leko, here I am at the end of the line you forced me into a replica. You said I would try to quote: “If there is a possibility that a dispute may not end within the appropriate time frame, do we always have to believe that it is because of overload? ” Murphy's rules. One of these rules says if any thing or event can go wrong it will always go that way. So, I'm afraid in a number of cases that are of such nature that they have the option of choosing by looking at the one who complains, who we say raises certain charges, etc. that it is an estimated interest for this person to come to his right and that this is exactly the problem that he points to in this report. So that issue of discrimination has been permeated through I would say a large number of processed cases. I'm going to use the replica here, and I'm going to say that I still believe that a public defender would certainly have more of that kind of problem and process it if he had the conditions to work. I believe in what is written in a report by the attorney general saying that the funds for certain meetings with people and for, among other things, checking certain issues are insufficient. Therefore, the Ombudsman should be allowed to work, and I believe that the issue of the administration's urgency will also contribute to the newly formed Ministry of State Administration, so we will see, because it was an explanation when forming a new ministry that this is precisely the goal of facilitating these administrative disputes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35847	Replication response, Mr. Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35848	You know, you could say it in general and know why it's done. According to Article 112, the ruling would not accept evaluations for this matter. The constitution had to take some measures. Since they will not do so, they ignore the facts, because ruling has no other material as to how human rights and fundamental freedoms are realized. If they do, then let them bring it to the Croatian Parliament, and let's compare that two materials, so maybe we'll change our position. But won't the public particularly professional support the assessment of non-quality and insufficiently prepared laws that are sometimes influenced by day-to-day political needs, which should be repeated over and over again because it's simply a fact as if today is 7.7. It's such a fact. So this expert public says the legislative ruins are in Croatia. They say what we're doing is we're quick to make laws that are legislative tsunamis. Therefore, that fact stands. The other thing is if we can change something quickly. But at least we need to know it exists, so we'll try to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35849	Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy attorney general, co-workers and colleagues. Also on the trail of what counterparts Leko and Heffer said and others voiced my disdain and regret that this report was taken note of by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, in one particular way, the government takes responsibility from all of the problems that the Ombudsman has raised, not as a warning to all of us, that we must act precisely in the areas in which the Office of the Attorney General warns us. Among other things, he says. In the area of protection of the rights of disabled persons, important progress has been made in raising the quality of life in the local community, but the implementation of certain regulations is still not satisfactory. This contributes to the circumstance that the rights of persons with disabilities regulates around 270 regulations making it difficult to learn about their rights and thus access to rights. It is necessary to implement the evaluation of the application of existing legislation in the field of protection of persons with disabilities, in particular in the field of rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities by an independent body, as established by the National Strategy for Equalisation of opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015. I am not going to talk here about my personal impression that I would not be misread again, but I will be guided by the facts and the exact data that the National Strategy binds us to. Therefore, monitoring and implementation of the National Strategy on Equality for Persons with Disabilities from 2007 to 2015, which speaks of the period prior to the recession, at least recognised, and before setting up the Advocate General's Office for Persons with Disabilities. Given that the national strategy has carriers and deadlines, it would be much fairer if we had revised the national strategy and adapted it to the time in which we live, especially since it's the government's document and I don't see why the government doesn't audit the flow of the document. I will list a few measures from the national strategy that have not been implemented. So, I'm going to set deadlines and everything that's written in the national strategy, and they should have warned us about which one of the attorneys' offices warned us about. In the field of family action, it provides different forms of quality non-institutional support to persons with disabilities and members of their family for the purpose of allowing freedom of choice, which also means the adoption of the Law on Personal Assistant for disabled persons with the most difficult type and degree of disability. The law, according to a valid and binding strategy, was due to be completed in 2008. So it's not fictional data, it's written in the national strategy. For years it has been implemented as a pilot project, in a way it discriminates on persons of the same degree and type of damage because some have the right through a pilot project on a personal assistant, and others do not. Therefore, it was not from the pilot project implemented in law as provided for in the national strategy, so it should have been all over in 2008. A special regulation was to be made, but we are witnessing that we have not yet defined what the most difficult disability means, and so the pilot project of a personal assistant continues. In Chapter Life in the Community, measure 1 defining the provision of a harmonised approach to the provision of quality community support services, i.e. empowerment of persons with disabilities at local level. The deadline for implementing this measure was 2007 and 2008. In the chapter Social Care and Pension Insurance, item 3, which envisions raising the quality of professional work in social care institutions, was the 2007 deadline. Among other things, a psychosocial rehabilitation programme was to be implemented and evaluated. Even here, the deadline for implementation is not respected, nor are the means for continuous work provided. Under measure 7, an expert and analytical basis on the possibility of improving the rights of persons with disabilities should be developed and appropriate rules should be adopted. Under point 1, a professional analytical basis for improving the rights from the basis of disability was to be completed in 2008. Under point 3 of the draft rules for improving disability-based rights, I said, under point 5, to make rules on professional rehabilitation. Also, under point 6. make a unique list of all the damages for all categories of people with disabilities, regardless of the way and the cause of disability. In the 12th month of 2007 a legal basis was to be developed and specific bodies of art should be established. Chapter 2/7 on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons to measure 1 required the evaluation of the application of existing legal regulations and current policies in the field of rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities by an independent body. Among other things, activity number 1 had to be developed to analyse the applicability of the provisions of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and Sub-legislative Acts and their compliance with the existing ones was not made and was due until 12 months 2007. Under point 2 of the draft amendment on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and sublaws has also been made, and the deadline was in June 2008. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, These are just some of the areas not executed within the specified time limit. I am concerned about the hypocrisy of the government which at the same time among the first ratifications of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the law against all forms of discrimination is passed, and when the Ombudsman warns us of various forms of discrimination, the government decides only to take that into account. Does that mean removing responsibility from yourself? Of course I will support this report and, if necessary, part of the responsibility, but I am sorry that this report was put right at the beginning of the afternoon session so that many colleagues who applied for the debate were not here in the assembly because unfortunately it was not going on the agenda. In any case, I think we've once again humiliated the office of the attorney general we need very, very, very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35851	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35852	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I want to replicate my colleague, or I want to say that my colleague, here is perhaps a wise use of this debate to expand the subject of people with disabilities, which we are not discussing here today, but only one segment of which is mentioned in her report by the Ombudsman. Well, it would be good, here's a colleague if you might have looked at what the report on the implementation of the national strategy says, and then you could adequately say what was done and what wasn't done. When a colleague is talking here about a personal assistant project that, here's a public defender, it would also be good for a colleague, but you know it, and you don't want to say it here because you've already heard that it's a law on personal assistant. He knew that, too, at the time he was putting this report together, so it seems to me that it's not very good that here in this House of Commons we're talking so negatively about the problem of people with disabilities, because from your presentation, your colleague turns out to be nothing, but nothing has been done, and you know very well that a lot has been done. Of course it's not everything, and we're gonna have to do a lot more together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35853	Replica reply, Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35854	Thank you very much. Well, you said I used it wisely. He should be smart and wise when you don't even hope. As to whether or not I took advantage of the situation. I use every situation when it comes to the right people with disabilities and their promotion. If you had listened to me more carefully, you might have noticed that I said, among other things, that in the area of protection the rights of persons with disabilities have been made significant progress. However, just now the Office of the Police Attorney on page 65 warns precisely about the problem of a personal assistant. So it's been running too long as a pilot project. You and I know very well how long that pilot has been going on, which number only uses it, 300 and some people use it. Don't fight with me. Please report for the debate next time, not to correct incorrect allegations and the replica institution, but to call for discussion, use your 10 minutes and then give your opinion. I said mine, but I'll also tell you through the replica institute. Likewise, the Attorney General warns us, therefore, of human rights violations. I think both you and I and all of us here in the Parliament are being placed just as speakers of those whose rights are at stake on any kind or on any basis. So, I speak for what I read in the national strategy, so where measures and deadlines were not implemented, which they should have. No one prohibits the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if it can't be fulfilled because I don't know why, because of the lack of funds or anything else to revise that document and put it in some let's say frameworks that are enforceable. So no one's defending them, and if you want to deal with the right and the protection of people with disabilities, I recommend you do it another way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35855	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35856	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. In his report, which is set before us, the Ombudsman of the Croatian Parliament, on the one hand, assesses the degree of respect for the Constitutional and Legal Rights of the Citizens in 2008, and, on the other hand, warns, clearly within the limits of the Constitutional Order of the Ombudsman institution, in areas which due to the frequency and meaning of the violation of these rights deserve our special attention. So special attention from the Croatian Parliament. That is why, in my debate on this report, I will look back at several areas which, by the number of complaints, represent areas of frequent violations of fundamental human rights. So, one area that stands out by a big mess, I would say, and a large number of complaints from citizens is the area of health insurance. In this regard, the Ombudsman specifically warns of Article 33(5). The mandatory health insurance law which provides for the possibility of compensation for salaries during the stay is directly paid by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, if it is not able to do so by the employer because it is inequitable. However, in order to achieve this right, the insurance company must provide a certificate to the Croatian Health Insurance Authority for the non-availability of the employer, which unfortunately cannot be obtained by the insurance company because the banks have protected themselves with the banking secret. True, confirmation from the bank can be obtained by the employer, however, of course he refuses to obtain it, because it is not his interest, or because his employee might find out that the employer did not report it at all, that he is not in the records of the office, or that he is being paid a contribution to health insurance. Therefore, the worker does not have at his disposal any means to force the employer to provide him with a certificate of indifference, so he is not actually in a position to consume certain rights by law. The common cause of dissatisfaction is that of the Ombudsman's report, it is also a violation of the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, in the sense of non-compliance with the deadlines for the adoption of acts, and of the non-compliance of acts in general. Instead of acts, only notices are delivered to parties in the process, in which they are actually denied some elemental rights, of course like the right to appeal. However, the area that has absolutely dominated the number of complaints received by citizens in recent years and which is targeted by the absolute worst dissatisfaction of citizens is the area of justice. According to the perception of Croatian citizens, the Croatian judiciary is far the most corrupt public area, and such perception is confirmed by Transparency International. According to his visit a short time ago, a week ago, 10 days ago, the published data by the Croatian judiciary was evaluated by 4.4 on a scale of 1 out of 5, with 5 representing the worst value. The vast majority of complaints about the judiciary relate to the length of the proceedings, i.e. to the excesses of the legal and reasonable deadlines. The average length of civil litigation is 10 years, and according to the Constitutional Court, it should not be longer than 3 years. Unfortunately, in this Croatian way, it is very common for a judge to schedule only one hearing in 3 years instead of ending the case. It is also not rare for disputes to be dragged for 30 years, so parties in the dispute do not see justice. Therefore, the right to justice in Croatia is literally an impossible mission and we must say it does sounds hypocritically like a constitutional provision on the right of everyone to a fair trial within a reasonable time. The huge dimensions of this problem have also been witnessed in recent years by an extremely dynamic increase in the number of applications submitted for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. These requirements represent a great additional burden for both the county courts and the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, for example, currently has over 6 thousand such cases of small value which have no meaning for the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Croatia, but only matter for the parties to the procedure. Because of this, the Constitutional Court has literally turned into the fourth instance of the trial in the Republic of Croatia, which is certainly not good, because the primary task of the Constitutional Court is to protect constitutional order, so the control of constitutionality and legality. However, this clearly came from the weakness of the judicial system that affects the weak and the poor the most, so the ones without money and influence. In Croatia, only those who have money, who have power and who have influence seem to realize their interests in front of constitutional bodies. But the problem described is not the only consequence of the court’s slowness. The next result is the huge financial costs of the state from the title of compensation paid to citizens who have been injured by the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. It's about tens of millions of kunas. As it is known that the state register is full of citizens, we come to an absurd conclusion that citizens are paying additionally for the ineffectiveness of the judiciary. So, the more justice unreachable to citizens, the more expensive it is, the more citizens pay. And the most absurd thing is that so far, because of the lack of judgment within a reasonable time frame in Croatia, there was only one judge in the same number and word. In doing so, it should be said that Croatian citizens are in fact very tolerated towards the state's indemnity, because the complaint and claims for compensation in Croatia only bear about 1% of the total number of those who have the right to do so. If all those who have conditions were sued, and that's all those whose trial lasts for three years, so it's hundreds of thousands of cases, the state could say so, bankruptly, because it would cost her several million kunas. This huge ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary, which is largely paid by citizens, is due to the outflows of the highest quality court personnel in a law firm that is skillfully designed, and here I am going to say it in the 1990s at the time of conversion and privatisation. And finally to conclude, the attorney general is an independent supervisory institution in the function of protecting human rights against the increasingly powerful and increasingly politicised administration. By adopting the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which came into force with 1. 1. In 2009, the ombudsman's powers were further expanded. However, the Ombudsman has no authoritarian powers, so he cannot make decisions, he cannot make solutions, and he cannot give orders to administrative authorities. But he himself makes proposals and recommendations whose strength is precisely in their professional justification and persuasion. Unfortunately, these recommendations and interventions do not always prove effective. Therefore, in order to strengthen the importance of the institution of the attorney general, it needs public support in order for the institution to have its full meaning. But more than that, he needs the support of the Croatian Parliament, which he as an independent supervisory institution helps with his control tasks. Therefore, all of us in the House need to give clear support to this report, not just to take it into consideration, as the government and the majority of parliament have been doing lately. Because the formulation takes note of this particular case points to deforestation, even denying the problems that citizens have in communicating with civil servants. And that means there's no good will, and there's no desire for real problems to begin and solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35857	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, Mr. Associates, colleagues and colleagues. If this report didn't come out of nowhere one afternoon, and we checked in a month or more ago, then it would show the same relationship with that report, but obviously we're a little too assuming. But I'll say something. What we have witnessed in this report is the inability of an individual in front of the levers of power, in front of the levers of the state and the establishment. What the occupier is telling us is a message that is certainly to be imagined and not removed with ease and haughtiness. It may be necessary to consult before saying so also with Mr Negotiator of the Republic of Croatia in accession negotiations for membership in the European Union, since Chapter 23 specifically speaks about the situation in the judiciary, harmonisation and on human rights issues. And I think Mr. Negotiator would have something to say about this kind of relationship to such a report. I'm not happy that this report is so, I'm not glad that a thousand 560 cases that the attorney general has recorded, which binds the ropes and wider families and communities in which these individuals live because there's always one case recorded, I'm not glad it happened. I'm not happy that there's been an increase of almost 40% in the judiciary, because the number is one but also one whose rights are injured and one whose rights are injured is cause for concern. I'm not glad that the statistics are property legal relations, for example. has increased by 20%, working civil servants etc. For 40, I'm not happy about it. But that's a fact to think about. What is most difficult is that we are in areas that are most sensitive today in the Republic of Croatia in areas that distance us from some of the ways that we have plotted and about which we have little to say about. We don't even take note of what it was meant to be. And I think you should, and that's because we suddenly entered this agenda point, but still consult the new government with Mrs. Kosor, who, in his pledoaje for the new Croatian government, mentioned a high level of protection of human rights. What this report has shown us is the fact that on this road you really should never, ever give up. The division of defence duties towards certain groups of citizens and citizens in our society I keep it useful still at the moment and I hold that it is a temporary measure, and one day as well as some other temporary measures will have another place, perhaps there will be unification, perhaps not. I wouldn't want to speculate on that. But so far, reports adopted by the Assembly, three reports by the Ombudsman on gender equality, children and persons with disabilities have shown that these institutions are founded. We have given confidence, we have actually given a mandate to the occupier to do this on our behalf and it is our duty to listen to what he has to tell us about it, so before he fights for independence, for a distance from what daily politics and the task of some day-to-day reference to problems actually bring. Content information. In fact, when you look at the content, then I don't know how it can be kept quiet, with what intention. With the intention of doing nothing? I think the government is obliged and that the government is willing to do something and that the majority of parliament must not put her in a position not to act because inaction is part of what is also wrong. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament we pass here every day I said once before that the state is good if it is good for each individual. Well, that's quite an indication that some individual is not good, and that's not the kind of state we all want. We want a country that is good to every individual regardless of what basis he complained about because a citizen and a citizen have those rights. We also have questions here when cases have been and even 40 years in the process have been unsolved. We have to go to the European Court of Human Rights which would be unnecessary if the processes had ended in time. So, then, some conclusions and lessons should be drawn from that and make sure that things are better rather than delayed for some other time because there are problems that I can't put off. What is unusual is that we have from year to year according to certain ministries of complaints, so we also have complaints about the application of the Law on areas of special state care, etc. It is not good, it is not a good message to citizens and citizens living in these areas or wanting to return to those areas. What someone here said is we have 100 and I don't know how many pages less but each page carries one record and each of these records is actually written already on the finest parts of human skin. In this regard, I would, however, ask my fellow Members and colleagues in the parliamentary majority to consider, to consult with government representatives and representatives who are responsible for taking care of Chapter 23 in the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia to join full membership in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35859	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35860	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to take a brief look at my presentation of the figures first, and I have to say that I can still express one satisfaction with the fact that this year, a thousand 560 applications arrived this year, so less than in last year and less than in 2007 and 2006, so back four years ago, we can see that less and less applications are coming to the public defender. For this reason or for that reason, many colleagues have already tried to explain today that there are other reasons, so as counterpart Cain said, they no longer have confidence in retirement so that they do not send their applications at all and do not complain. I would say, however, that we can conclude that, of course, we are not still sufficiently likely but that the situation is being improved and that we can be content with it. When it comes to persons with disabilities here I will look briefly at a few segments here processed by the Ombudsman, so when he speaks here, I would like to commend what he noticed first and I think it must be pointed out that in the area of protection of the rights of persons with disabilities that an important progress has been made in raising the quality of life in the local community. I think it certainly contributes to the fact that many local communities today, so cities and municipalities have adopted their local strategy modeling a national strategy which still guarantees that the rights of persons with disabilities and in the local community are being dealt with in a better and better quality way by the fact that usually these local communities also have commissions for people with disabilities in which commissions are involved by the same persons with disabilities. The Ombudsman warns, he points out that one of the priorities in the area of protection of the rights of disabled persons is to quickly establish a single body of art and a unique list of all damages to all categories of persons with disabilities. I can agree with this. That should have been done a long time ago. However, it is a huge job and I here can express the satisfaction that this and in the Republic of Croatia have finally begun, and that is why I am somewhat dissatisfied, and on the committees on which I have participated, which I pointed out that it does not say that this problem has started to be solved anyway, because in the time this report is written, I think that the Office of the General Prosecutor had the knowledge that it has started with this because everyone in Croatia is in the interest that the sooner we get a single body of art, since it is the basis for solving and achieving all other rights of persons with disabilities and I am quite sure when this body is operating that we will be able to express our satisfaction that we have made great progress in other areas as well. Why am I saying this? Because in Croatia today we have a number of almost 11% people with disabilities, but we can never say 100% whether this is so, since many do not have solved papers, so they do not have a regulated status according to current regulations, so it may be possible to talk about a larger number and perhaps a smaller one. So we definitely need this body of art, and that's a prerequisite for solving everything else, but here's what I'm kind of sorry for saying here in the report that this should be done, so there's no sign that it's already started. The Ombudsman also states that issues or rights of persons with disabilities and their protection should not be addressed through pilot projects. So here I have to say that in Croatia it is not a practice to solve the rights of persons with disabilities through pilot projects. Here, the civil defender was referring to the pilot project of a personal assistant which, in fact, is already taking place here for the fourth year in the Republic of Croatia, but there is also a reason for that. I must say that the pilot project of personal assistant in the Republic of Croatia currently covers 330 persons, so 330 of the most difficult persons with disabilities in the first year received 78 people, in the second 187 such a thing and this one, so in the third year 330 persons. The Republic of Croatia set out in the creation of the Law on Personal Assistant, and I also point out this for the reason that, at the time of this report, the Ombudsman was making, it was also known in December that it was moving towards the creation of the Law on Personal Assistant. The law on a personal assistant is not a simple thing to do, colleagues and colleagues. In addition to this, it seems to me that there are only two or three across Europe, and not so long ago the Republic of Croatia has received a guide from the Scandinavian countries to take good care of what we are doing, because it is not easy to play with, that it is a very difficult and very extensive regulation that engulfs the deepest rights of persons with disabilities, that is, to be careful who needs a personal assistant and who is not needed because, of course, when the law is passed, not all of them will be able to get it, but only the most difficult and most sensitive categories. But here I also want to express my gratitude. I must say here to the current prime minister, the former Deputy Prime Minister, who has given her maximum that this Law on personal assistant first the pilot project works in the best way possible for three years, to involve as many persons with disabilities as possible, and now to turn into law-making. I firmly believe that the law will be good, so I can also say that I am always up to it and that I agree that it is better to do it longer, that we here discuss how much reading it takes, than to pass a law that neither the users nor the ones who brought it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35861	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Brankica Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35862	Dear colleague, I agree with you when you say that there has been significant progress in raising the quality of life in the local community in the area of protection of persons with disabilities. But I think that you will agree with me, and it is important to stress that the implementation of certain regulations is still not satisfactory, and this contributes to the environment for the rights of persons with disabilities to regulate around 270 regulations, making it difficult to learn about their rights and thus access to rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35863	Replication response. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35864	Thank you very much. It is true, fellow Members, that a series of regulations regulates the issue of disabled persons, I agree with you here. But here we who have been working on this problem for many years have been trying to even think about whether it might be wise to put all of this into one regulation so that we can make it easier to apply it, but it wouldn't be very good either, so the problem has to be solved systematically. Therefore, the local community must apply the rules, the strategy must also be adopted in the local community. And I think some cities here, like Koprivnica, for example, such as the Križevci, such as Zagreb, showed a good example after all. They can be a good example for us that the rights of persons with disabilities can also be implemented satisfactorily in the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35865	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer Danesh Shaw. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35866	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This report is quite thorough and exhaustive and therefore I will look only at the parts I personally consider most important in my presentation. In 2008, the Attorney General's Office received 1560 complaints, so slightly less than the previous year. The area of family legal protection during 2008 has increased the number of complaints related to the treatment of the social care centre in family violence cases. Part of the complaint further refers to the conduct of the social care centre in the procedures of giving an opinion, i.e. a proposal in court proceedings to make a decision with which the parent will live a minor child, determining the way and time of meeting and socialising the child with another parent. Although the court is making a decision, the opinion of the Social Care Centre is only one of the evidence in the process. Citizens continue to experience the Centre for Social Care as bodies according to which courts are solely making decisions. When it comes to the conduct of police officers in the application of police powers, the Ombudsman shall examine the complaints lodged or the investigation shall be initiated for the purpose of finding out from the media. During 2008, 45 new cases were handled. Over the past few months, we have witnessed several repeated statements by the Minister of Interior and the Chief Director of Police on the necessity of professionalisation, which should be believed to result in both a more professional and objective way and a process of examining complaints, performances and thus contribute to strengthening the trust and reputation of the police that the coalition is without question and deserves. One way to strengthen citizens' confidence in the police is without doubt the strengthening of the Internal Affairs Department. It is necessary to take certain measures and activities in order to meet the conditions in which the illegal conduct of police officers and the overrun of police powers will be reduced to the least possible extent. Transparency of the process, its efficiency and accessibility to citizens, which will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening the confidence in police work, should be imperative to any state whose rule of law represents the highest value of constitutional order. In connection with the above issues, the Ombudsman stated that he also addressed recommendations on several occasions to the Ministry of the Interior. A large number of complaints and appeals to the Ombudsman are also focused on the long-term length of court proceedings, and this fact continues to testify that the impunity of the courts and despite certain progress and measures taken primarily by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia for citizens is the biggest problem of the Croatian judiciary. Addressing citizens to the occupier who, as is known, has no authority to directly intervene to courts in such cases. It also points to the belief that through courts and judicial administrations, so the presidents of courts, judicial departments, the Ministry of Justice with judicial inspection or the State Judiciary Council cannot influence the speed of proceedings, but very often they do not get the right answers to their submissions and complaints. The main message, the European Court of Justice, is that the state is responsible for human rights violations if citizens cannot exercise their rights and legal interests within a reasonable period of time. The lack of urgency of courts and the long-term length of court proceedings, which is also suggested by a large number of complaints as well as statistics on the work of courts, remains the biggest problem for citizens. What is not inevitable and which is inadmissible for the rule of law state is divided into poor and weak, and rich and powerful in front of state bodies that decide on their rights and legal interests. The state must create conditions and regulate administration and judiciary in a way that will guarantee the real and effective equality of all before the law. The State must remove the causes leading to or eligible corruption and bias and objectivity or make it difficult to detect and sanction such phenomena. The Anti-Corruption Strategy requires continuous review and improvement of laws and other regulations, as well as appropriate policies. This report does not contain numerical indicators of the number of complaints of members of national minorities. However, some administrative areas still have a large share of complaints from members of the Serb minority in the total number of complaints. This primarily concerns issues relating to the exercise of pension-inhabitation rights, return of property, reconstruction, housing care and status rights. Most of it is about solving the problems caused by the war and the collapse of the former state, and prosecutors are mainly from the field of special state concern, i.e. former occupied areas of the Republic of Croatia. More than ever, it is necessary to ensure compliance with the principles of good and friendly administration, which is not only government but also public service at the service of citizens. Such treatment should also be strengthened and trust restored to the institutions of the state and to those citizens who have failed for years to meet the basic conditions for return and normal life, i.e. rights guaranteeing the laws of the Republic of Croatia and programmes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I commend this report and of course I'll accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35867	Thank you. Two replicas. First lady representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35868	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This way, colleague Crlenko, you said the key word, two words, availability of the right. I will look again at this availability of the right and the inequality of the right and that of persons with disabilities who regulate them, so 270 legal regulations. And I'm going back to the pilot project of a personal assistant that doesn't only last four years. I've been working at the National Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth since 2001. I worked before that at the Ministry of Labour and Social Care and this pilot project was carried out through various names starting with an independent life, so I don't know how to go on, so all right now in the last four years under the name personal assistant. Unfortunately, only the few have the right to do so. This year, 330 people with the most severe degree of damage. But is that how I don't know because the most profit from this pilot project and the various pilot projects has those who carry them out? They're project pilots. These are various manipulators who speak for people with disabilities. And I would also warn of the availability of parental status where they are really in relation to the status of carers who also have people with disabilities in the Homeland War, simply discriminating. I would also warn that, often in small areas, they do not have the same rights, i.e. the availability of the rights of persons with disabilities as they do in large cities, starting with transport, education, employment, etc. etc. I'm not saying there's nothing to do, but since there's a recession going on, that we've finally admitted that we have a recession, I think these pilot projects will be abolished, and with them some rights, or the availability of rights that are implemented through pilot projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35869	Replica reply, Mrs. Brankica Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35870	When it comes to the availability of rights, distinguished colleagues, it may be necessary to implement the evaluation of the application of existing legislation in the field of protection of persons with disabilities, in particular in the area of rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities by an independent body, as defined by the National Strategy for Equalisation of opportunities for persons with disabilities for the period from 2007 to 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35871	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35872	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Crlenko, you have touched the issues of illegality in your debate, and you have touched the issues of corruption in social care. So here, I'd say, you see, in your report on page 60, a public defender on the subject of implementing a social care programme that should be regulated by general acts in that area. Therefore, certain decisions, rules and similar documents laying down the rights in the field of social care which provide units of local self-government where they would determine which users, what are the conditions for the exercise of such rights and what is the way in which those rights are exercised. Unfortunately, the attorney general here points out that many local self-government units don't do it that way. The question is, why? Well, it's simply because social care should be dealt with systematically. It is easier to adopt some kind of framework programme of social care and then discretionary rights very often, so the rights that are not within the domain of behaviour are determined by whom certain subsidies, certain donations, certain financial contributions, etc. are granted, thus ensuring that social welfare looks are implemented, but very often not in a systematic manner and not in accordance with the Social Care Act. So it's always about the system, it's always about the law. And I think it's partly about your previous debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35873	Replica reply, Mrs. Brankica Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35874	Dear fellow, you did not understand me very well. I did not refer to the problem of corruption in the social care system in my debate, but I said that in the anti-corruption strategy, a constant review and improvement of laws and other regulations and relevant policies is needed. And as for the welfare system, he is burdened and overloaded with problems. For many years in the social care system, the main problem is the non-employment of professionals and insufficient teaming of professionals, and this results in their overload and often, for these reasons, workers from the social care system are unable to meet their obligations in accordance with the deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35875	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35876	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished gentlemen of the deputy attorney general, Mr. Representative of the Central Office of Management. At first, I am sorry that today among us in this assembly is not the author of this report on the work of the 2008 Police Attorney's Office, Mr. Jurica Malcic, who unfortunately for health reasons could not have been with us and for this reason, here and at the beginning of my debate, I strongly reject those remarks that my predecessors made in the debate that suddenly this debate was coming, and in the conversation with the deputy attorney generals before, here is this debate, they told me that this was the third time that they came here and we know very well that we had both applied this point and our first point and point a month ago put into the agenda of this session, which has significantly improved what our colleagues from the opposition had given us last year when we adopted the 2007 report. And clearly I want you to pass on my good wishes as quickly as possible to the attorney general. However, when I discussed the 2007 Work Report in December 2008, I pointed out that I disagreed and I will never agree with the finding given in that report, which said that Croatian citizens know little about the Ombudsman's office. I explained through a series of arguments in this debate why I personally could not support a report that, as a Parliament and I, I individually, only took note of. The 2008 report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman, which the Croatian Constitution, in its Article 92, set out as the authority of the Croatian Parliament, which protected the constitutional and legal rights of citizens against the authorities of the state administration and bodies with public authority, again contains, in my opinion, an incriminal sentence that I quote, "Citizens still do not know enough about the institution of the Ombudsman in spite of the presence in the media, printed and electronic", finished the quote. Because I believe and repeat that in this case, most of the responsibility lies right now on the very institution of the attorney general. The occupier, who was introduced into Croatia by the 1990 Constitution, and the Law on the Ombudsman was passed in 1992. From then on, it has been too many years for a public defender to allow such a finding in a report submitted to the Croatian Parliament. The number of complaints received, I said so even when I spoke on behalf of the club, is smaller than last 2007, but on page 9, where a sideshow of complaints is given in administrative areas for the period 2005/2008. year, we see that this was less than in 2005 and 2004. Now, if I were to ironize the whole situation, I'd ask why. Because citizens don't know enough about lawyers or because things in the administrative areas are getting better? The answer of the attorney general in the final chapter of the proposal and the evaluation is clear to me, but I cannot agree with that. What I said in last year's report as my grudge, I'll repeat here. Once again, we have selective approaches to the facts that we want to highlight, and what is the Ombudsman when he writes the 2008 report, so we are in 2009 and we know that the Croatian state has launched certain reforms, so it would be good to stress that in certain chapters. I said, and I will repeat, the reform of the judiciary has begun, the reform of the state administration. We can't be satisfied with the dynamics, but we can't not mention it. Besides, in the second part, it appears, the findings re-emerge, the guy I'm going to quote here. A quote by the Ombudsman's former position on an effective solution to the problem is crucial to train and strengthen personnel material and powers of the judiciary in all courts, especially the Supreme Court. In addition to the Supreme Court being able to become a real and effective summit, single judicial administrations should also strengthen the role of Supreme Court President in the appointment of the President of the Court." The second quote: "Despite the notorious fact that part of judges are not on permanent duty appointed only by the criteria of expertise and ability, the judicial system has not been reached or the mechanism which would eliminate those who cannot meet the standard of efficiency, quality and impartiality, which, although not so many, have the most impact on the bad picture of justice and mistrust in the system." We have heard, and that is also the left in this assembly pointed out by the Public Attorney, he has no jurisdiction over the judiciary, and these findings are much more similar to, not only to the excess of the Constitutional and Legal powers that the Ombudsman has, but rather to the political, and I will not, dare say, although I do not like the political assessments that will make this report known as in 2007. And one more thing. In the final, speaking of the situation, I also said that when I was correcting my colleagues in their allegations, when we talk about the working conditions of last 2007 the Office of the Police Attorney ended up with a total of 25 staff members with the Police Attorney and 3 deputies. In 2008, he ended up with 31 employees and is well aware only that here is the plan to strengthen the institution that adopted the Croatian Parliament in 2005. I'll repeat what I said last year, and you've already heard, it would be nice to say that we don't have enough resources, and we're giving a report on the work of the Office of the Police Attorney for the previous year, that, with that sentence in the 2008 office budget, 6 million kuna were provided in the state budget, which was clearly an increase compared to 2007, to get us elected and this House of Commons, to get, and if that was the case, then let's see what caused the problems and have such problems. It is stated, instead, that for 2009, the amount is indicated, the 2008 report lists the amount of the 2009 funds and finds that these are not sufficient resources for work. I'm surprised at my colleagues who, by the way, comment on everything, don't wonder. The sentence is, it is on page 114, it will not be able to work this year because the million-million kuna funds provided for by this law for 3 new officials and other expenditures are not provided for this year. So it's about 2009. Three employees and a million and 200 thousand kunas, no colleagues of Kajin and colleagues, when my brain stops, colleagues of Lesar who would very quickly calculate the amount of pay. I understand what the role of the Attorney General's Office is, but I will repeat what I said and when I spoke about the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children. It would be much better if these reports included positive examples, so here I am now saying a positive example, because we haven't been able to hear it today. A lot of remarks that have been made in the past year and previous, previous years at the work of the Regional Development Administration Office, this report notes that the situation has been improved because several trainees have been admitted to work in the work relationship, which will speed up and assist in the work on the resolution of lagging cases. From this point on, I would therefore like there to be a positive one in these reports, because only with the negatives and with these findings ahead we will not go forward and unrecognizable and not mentioning what the Croatian Government has done in the past year. I am aware of all the above-mentioned report on the work of the 2008 Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35877	Thank you. Two corrections, two replicas. First correction, Ms. Mirjana Feric Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We applied here for a debate this month ago, that's right and this point is like point 17. on the agenda. Article 205 is replaced by the following: After the agenda has been established, the President of the Assembly shall publish the established agenda. At the beginning of each working day, the president shall, as a rule, publish the items of the agenda to be discussed that day. During the session, exceptionally, it may change the order of debate or decide if there are no reports from the competent working authorities, proposals and the Government for each item of the agenda. My objection was only in that sense that we didn't know it at the beginning of the session, and that a number of colleagues and colleagues were not there. And may I, in this order, ask that we do not have reports by point 17 of the competent working bodies, the proposing or the Government on all these points. That's what I'm saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35879	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35880	Thank you very much. Well, here's to me, on the one hand, I'm also sorry there's no colleague of the regiment, Mr. Attorney General. That would probably mean that his health was getting worse and that he had, therefore, come out of these health problems that told us he wasn't here. But on the other hand, when I heard this, maybe I'm glad, because he got one political... which dared to write a report like this at all, or bring it here, because it was warned on the one hand about the excess of constitutional powers, on the other hand it warned him about politics, which in the report dared to say that there are certain problems in the judiciary that make people who seek their rights, because of the long-standing court proceedings fail to exercise these rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as financial resources are concerned, I agree it could have been a financial report, but it's a particular problem obviously here in this report, so even entering this sphere is calculated by a million and 200 thousand kuna, so 400,000 kuna per head, divided by 12 months, etc., but it also says other expenditures. So it's not just about wages. It's never just about wages, you know that well, but here you are looking back at this million and 200 thousand kuna as for three people. Imagine what those wages are. Of course it's business expenditure, because it's about suppressing discrimination. Discrimination is present that we are all witnesses, it is everyday and I would especially say appears exactly where I said, to us in the east by various things. And if any of these people should go to the field right east, then take what the expenditures are and outside the pay area. We cannot look for elements that are problematic to look at, and then point out that a public defender should bring something good. He deals with problems, presents problems, and ours is to try to solve these problems, i.e. to include all those institutions that need to solve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35881	Reply to the replica of Ms. Suzana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35882	Thank you. You didn't listen well to me, my colleague Heffer. But even if you were listening, you heard what you wanted to hear. Let's just start from the last one. He says fix it. Well, you heard that I said that the Croatian government is launching certain reforms, that is, reforms in certain areas, and you and all of us are witnesses here. That's what I said. So he's getting rid of it, and he's working on it. And it was my grudge, and it wasn't a grudge, it was a remark in the sense that it could be mentioned. If something else is mentioned, then I consider myself as well as you have the right to believe that it's all right to mention it. When you mentioned the money, I was wondering what the living room was, one diary for the official trip. While I was in regional self-government she was 170 kuna a day, I hope it hasn't changed. I don't see any reason why staff and deputy attorney generals can't go and visit certain counties, so local and regional self-government units in the Republic of Croatia. We're not that far away, and I'm not sure. That's why this kind of financial reporting didn't convince me they didn't have the means to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35883	And Mr. Representative Aresen Bauk, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35884	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to look back on two things my colleague Bilić Vardić said in her basic presentation. So first, it's a fact that, otherwise, I've been listening to the whole exposure, and I'm only going to get two because I don't have enough time. Therefore, the fact that the Ombudsman does not have jurisdiction over the judiciary, that is, judicial proceedings. I can't see from this that he got involved in court proceedings in the sense that he said that some punishment should be greater or smaller, but only in terms of the length of court proceedings, and I don't see that there's anything controversial about it. Also, an annual report by the Ombudsman in the first sentence is a presentation of his work and information on the degree of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the previous year that he came into his work. Well, as many citizens have complained or boasted, I guess that's what's written here. That picture doesn't have to be much nicer than it is. This is also said on the first page, therefore the reports of the Ombudsman are based primarily on complaints from citizens and cannot be considered a complete picture of the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, but rather a sample of the so-called the continued functioning of administrative bodies and bodies with public authority in relation to citizens. So it's exactly like you said. And the proposer himself is talking about why it's like that. Unfortunately, it is a bigger problem for me that this, not by accepting the ruling majority or part of the ruling majority, sends a message to those who have been violating citizens' rights for years that they can carry on freely, because there is obviously no great political will to put an end to it. That is why reforms are not needed, but it is enough to thank some people who do not do their job in the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35885	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35886	Thank you very much, colleague Bauk, for listening very carefully. I have nothing to answer for this, I have said, the qualifications that the occupier has given for the area of justice are not within the authority of the vacancy attorney and, as such, I do not accept them. What you quoted as the report on the work of the Attorney General's Office, you quoted what it says. I agree, too. I talked about it last year, too. Only with these findings that I warned you about, then it turns out that the report from the rakurs or the perspective of the attorney general. And you'll agree that all of us here have to be interested in being objective. And don't think, little of us on this side took part in the debate that we are happy with the cases that the occupier mentions and states in his report. That is why the Croatian government has also launched all these reforms in order to resolve, not only because of allegations and advice, proposals and recommendations from the Ombudsman, but because of the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35887	Thank you. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35888	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen, representatives of the Attorney General. It is obvious that the institution itself is already a public defender stone in the shoe not only of the government but also of the ruling majority. Instead of generally understanding the existence of this institution as the extended hands of this Assembly, i.e. the special authority who has been elected, empowered, authorized and paid to protect the interests of Croatian citizens embodied primarily in the constitution of guaranteed rights, are being controlled on behalf of this Assembly by all those who make up the executive and other authorities on the agenda for the protection of human rights. So, instead of being so implicated and understood as the role of the attorney general, it is obvious that the government understands this institution as some reference place for the laude of its practice. So, if there's no praise, that report's no good. Well, that's contradictory. Namely, the Attorney General's office does not receive any praise from the citizens. He's not a cashier who puts papers with praises on how anyone does his job, and receives salaries from a state budget or a local budget, but rather the opposite. It is a place where misery is recorded and that people who are in conflict with the institution or in search of their rights are in trouble. Or those who can't get out of trouble but are prevented from red tape, from being held accountable, so if you want intricacies or ignorance of the law by those who are paid to know and enforce the law. That's what this is about. But as long as there was the Attorney General's Office, it was in place until it started to work, so he realized all his powers and responsibilities were well. The first two, three reports of the occupier the government accepted, and the fourth and fifth cannot stand against it through its teeth to accept it, but it takes note of it and takes note of something is actually a euphemism for ignoring it. Well, there was little that the government received last year on the record than I guess someone got their tail and someone on the council committees who found it appropriate to accept this report, and then these same people who accepted the report at the plenary session had to vote to take note. So it depends whether it was Monday or Friday, so one day they understand and accept and the next day they take note. So this year. Again, a mockery is being made with the institution of this Parliament because the report by the Ombudsman is a top reading not only for those who would criticise the government, so they ask to be written somewhere so they don't quote that the government doesn't know its work or executive branches of government are doing something bad and the opposite of the law or ignoring the rights of people, but it should be an excellent and educational read to anyone who loves Croatia, who wants its institutions to function better and not have to be ashamed of worse than themselves. And let's take the European Commission's progress report in 2008. Thank God and this is a public document, here it is on the website of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, and you can read what the European Commission is talking about, therefore, about the state of human rights which are the measure of the work of the Ombudsman. So if he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn because maybe that's where our politicians at the Attorney General's office probably rebel against all forces to prove that the government isn't doing their job. But where did those from the European Commission join them? What happened? What's that all about? Who chose them? So why don't they praise the little government. So we want to take it into consideration, or maybe we want to make it right. And I think we're gonna have to do something else because the force of God doesn't pray, and we'd better listen to our own people than to have to listen to people who are foreign and from afar come and make us a drop. What people, who at this time of political uncertainty, economic crisis, recession and all the other problems that Croatia is facing, will feel threatened, and his right to work because who knows whether he may be out of work by the end of the year, who knows what his pension will be like if he accidentally ends up there. So who knows what happens to him if the employer cuts him off in his rights? So what do you know about what happens to him if there's someone in that political column who remembers again that he may not be a Croat but some other nationality? So, all these people who are made up of the substrate of a Croatian political entity so that they can assess their opportunities for them in Croatian society when it is seen in practice that mobsters, thieves, who are so-called perverse. The large fish, the murky converts, the speculators remain intact and leaving behind a wasteland, the fact that every tycoon privatisation left behind at least 3 hundred workers on the road you forget. So, if you get out of a rakursa so-called. The ordinary man sees what is happening in our society is asked who protects my rights, that is, if my rights come at risk if there is any chance that anyone can protect me and that the Ombudsman will be able to really help me if they in the Assembly accept his reports only on boards and not on the plenary, but they take him into consideration. And what does that mean? To notice something is not an invitation to action. Only if this report is accepted, if we stand behind it is an authority that will force all those who are paid to protect human rights and correct injustice, to do their job. But only when the first civil servant, who boasts, treats the citizens with debauchery, or pay, or when he is fired for his work will we be able to gain that atmosphere and the priest has a priest, that the man in everyday life is not left to the will of bureaucrats, the self-invited men who make hats for each of us and to him, is he not going to have what happens to thousands of people, which is that after ten, twelve years, justice awaits him. And we take notice. That's what Dalmatia would say, "I'm talking to you or a load of shit, I'm the same.". Now, that's what the government says to the attorney general, saying you or the cargo of the revs, and that's bad. Because if we don't realize that the institution of the occupier and all the other attorneys is actually keeping the honorary dignity of our own state, and if we don't realize that this is the first source of all the information that we can use to make the state better, more effective, more useful to the citizen, then we will have to comply with the reports of the European Commission. Well, if we prefer it, I'm fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35889	Thank you. One correction and one replica. Correction Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35890	Mr. Vice President, here's only one correction that speaks, which is incorrectly stated, which is that this assessment is taken into consideration, unobstructed and not standing. In fact, in one of his paragraphs where he talks about the state administration you spoke of, he clearly and unequivocally said that the phenomenon of clientelism and political corruption is logical because of the politicalization of the administration, especially the ruling layer, and with the impunity and disorder that it causes every other kind of corruption is easier to pass and more difficult to reveal. In fact, the management layer is always chosen according to certain criteria. Therefore, all those unemployed are the consequences of the imposed red tape in the state administration that has never taken a job. And this ruling layer changes and makes them work as they should and how the law imposes to be available to citizens to make as much of it as possible. So it doesn't seem that it isn't, this shouldn't have been said that way. From everything visible through this report, you can clearly see what bureaucracy is holding back in the procedures that are and thus should have been described, and not only the leaders of certain administrations are called ineffective, both as a fruit and a cause of all kinds of corruption. That shouldn't have happened and... And it is incorrect that the evaluation is unfair on the part of those who have read this report on board and analyzed it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35891	Okay. Replica, Madam Representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to join you, colleague Beus, in your assessment that it is not good for us to take notice of the report by the attorney general. Why? Because I think that through these examples that he gave us in the report, he actually goes into the dark side of life, and we don't actually bring light into that dark side of life in this way. If you're going to read this report better, you can see that, say, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development is not responding at all to questions. No questions answered, not even the minister. What does that mean when the minister does not want to answer to the narrator who is the authority of the Croatian Parliament? This means that it ignores the Croatian Parliament, ignores the institution that put it in place. But if the attorney general is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, then we are not bound by the government's opinion that we will accept his report or be aware of it. Personally, I think that, with the adoption of this report, we should also conclude that the Government is acting, conducting certain actions against those who are breaking down on its enquiries, those who do not respond, who do not make solutions and who do not solve the problems of people who mean their life and human destiny.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35893	Replication response. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35894	Mrs. Zgrebec, you're absolutely right. When a single minister saw the government taking note and going on a journey, it was a message rather than being cut by a public defender. You think we're responsible for you, that we have to do something now. Oh, yeah. So who did the hair fall out of his head for ignoring the attorney general for a few years in a row? And even more so, it looks like it's up to you to stand up to the attorney general, that's some kind of plus, I guess, some in the government. Well, it should actually be introduced that it can't be the minister who ignores the attorney general. If this report is mentioned in this context for two years in a row by a minister, then who's responsible for the ministry's work, then it's not me? Or maybe I am. But if I'm not, if the minister, how come he's entitled to be called an honorary minister when it's an essential obligation, which is to serve the citizens, protection of the rights of the citizens is not capable of being executed? But what we're gonna do is, well, we had some people sitting there yesterday who wanted to be ministers, so they became ministers, so they faked their own CVs. It's been writing since '84. '90s. He said he was a financial director, and he was the head of accounting for the Zagreb Youth Conference. So what's a financial director? About the hook.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35895	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35896	Since I've been in debate and replicas, I'll be brief, but I have to point out a few details that I am extremely touched as an agent from Vukovar-Srijem County. In fact, there are two details that I would say specifically, especially important and particularly problematic, and I will say for what reason. And they need to be highlighted because it's not about individual people or people, it's about thousands of people. Two problems related to the City of Vukovar, which we have read very often about, which we have heard a lot about, but we have not talked about them at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, although I repeat thousands of people of Vukovar, this troubled city of heroes. The first question is the question of paying for the reserves of the people of Vukovar over the past ten years, which according to the law were paid by Technostan, which is the local self-government, so City Administration of the City of Vukovar granted the right to collect the reserve. We know the law regulated it in such a way that the reserve is paid by the owner of the apartment, not by the owner of the apartment. We know the whole epic of these people who individually, which grouply, acting through the Association of Residents of the City of Vukovar tried in various courts to exercise their right, the municipal court, the county court, and then lost the proceedings, and then because of a certain establishment of the judiciary, it was not at the Supreme Court, but at the Constitutional Court they launched a lawsuit and received a lawsuit at the Constitutional Court. And then the whole process was returned to Vukovar State's Attorney's Office where they as one of the options proved a settlement which, of course, the State's Attorney's Office refuses because it's about a hundred million kunas, because in the meantime, that amount grew as much through interest, which through the collection over time. And right now these people really don't know what's going to happen, what's going to happen. They're working through that resident association, and that's just one problem. Another problem of the Association of Residents, or people in Vukovar, is said to be around 2,000 people in this matter possible deals with the State's Attorney's Office, and precisely because of this number, the State's Attorney's Office rejects the possibility of such a settlement. As for the purchase of apartments by former tenants where they are involved, so in considering the problem of different things, I'd say there are also those discriminatory ones. Maybe it's a bigger number of people. So, somewhere up to 3,000 people gathered in the Association of Residents who came in opportunity not to have been in a situation under the then applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia due to war events, due to reintegration of '97. years and short term, and probably financial inability were not in a position to buy these apartments that were about 6000 per cent according to one data, according to others around 5000. And so far, they say 70 of those apartments have been sold. So that's a big problem for the team more that's been made and the decision to use all the funds that would be collected by selling these apartments in the City of Vukovar for the development of the City of Vukovar. So the question arises if this is already by holding back the realization of it, obviously the height of the square, or the amount that would be paid for the square meter of the apartment. In fact, that is the problem, because those offered 175 euros per square is a lot of Vukovar citizens because they live, live and live in difficult conditions. But that's a special problem. And now I'm going to take advantage of the political situation here with the previous net local elections, an interesting fact. Here I have here by chance written 26.5.2009. The householder's association signed a contract with HDZ in the presence of Mr. Cobankovic, Mr. Mlinaric, where the promise to resolve the issue was made. I don't know, I haven't been able to see it. The 26.5th news on Wink TV, you sat at the table and signed something. I say what was in the report. I recorded it on that occasion. So it was very interesting news not for that reason that I believe it would be done, but for the reason that the ruling party then in Vukovar, of course in the state has recognised in a certain way that this is a problem that needs to be solved and I hoped it would go on. I still hope so, and you will have quite certain help from the current mayor in Vukovar in this regard. So it's something that's not subject to local or so to say to everyday this policy. This is a problem that needs to be addressed for citizens regardless of whether HDZ, SDP, SDSS, or whether I don't know some third or fourth party that doesn't exist there either less or less. Right? But in his report, the attorney general even asks a question that is very, rational and says so. If it's an interest and it's that the question of apartments is resolved, that it doesn't remain unresolved, then why it doesn't solve itself, and that's very important, and I didn't want to burden myself with a big debate here right now. I would just like to point out that such issues that involve thousands of people who are recorded problems need to be addressed, do not need to be pointed out when it is evident but obviously in this situation when certain things are not solved by people are what is individual, which is what grouply here and the Ombudsman addressed for help. There are a lot of such people who, may they forgive me for saying, are desperate for not solving their problems that really don't see a solution, the light at the end of the tunnel is addressed to the Ombudsman as the last haven, as I said in the debate on behalf of the club, the last haven for the exercise of their rights. And so I know that he can't bring good news because this is bad news that such issues are not being solved. I hope this issue begins to be realized. It takes both state level and local level to access it. I am pleased that this problem is highlighted in the report by the Ombudsman and that it is dedicated to him to a lack of space in this report. And I hope that that too will be an additional element in order for this issue to be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35897	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I have to say, as far as the vacancy attorney is concerned, for the purchase of apartments and the price of apartments is more favourable now than they were in 92, 93. It is a calculation of the Faculty of Osijek and it is proved precisely that the price of the apartment is 175 euros if you pay once, then an apartment of 55 square meters comes around 10,000 euros and it is restored according to the latest standards of ours can be said a new apartment for 10 thousand euros 55 square meters. And so far, 250 apartments have been bought, and these apartments are mostly bought once. The other thing, so it's not exactly proof that in Vukovar 250 apartments of the family bought apartments and that most of them once paid off. Another thing, as far as this agreement is concerned, the current government in Vukovar cannot simply solve these problems. It's being held, of course, that the court has decided to take care of it but the state will sue the tenants because they didn't pay rent at all, so it'll compensate for it. The city should now return reservations and we now expect the city to return reserves and the Ministry of Regional Development will normally withdraw the lawsuit to compensate those apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35899	Now comes the final review. ... So wait a minute! ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, let me guess that... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If I may, I still must, it is my duty to... Deputy Attorney General Dejan Palic, final review. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35900	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. During the discussion, several controversial moments related to the content of the annual report and other issues were presented. Now, first of all, I'd like to make a few clarifications that concern the text itself. As for the questions of the pilot of the personal assistant project, this is about a classic misunderstanding. The text therefore states that the pilot project is a good attempt to apply new institutes for a certain period. In case good results are shown, the legal institute should be arranged. So, this is not about the vehicular lawyer being against the pilot of the project, it's about the pilot of the project that didn't legally settle once for permanent purposes. So he only supports the idea in one different serious form. It's absolutely not the support of the attorney general at all. As for the second question, Mr. Cain asked the question that it was left out of the status of those protected tenants, tenants in private apartments. This was mentioned on page 86, not closer because the issue had been withdrawn for years, so it was only an emphasis that remained unresolved. As for issues of insufficient financial indicators of the office, I must say that here, perhaps with regret, not enough trust has been expressed in the Ombudsman's staff, that the discussion has resulted in a question as to whether there will really be no means of pay as well as the issue of spent funds, there is something left in the air unclear. In any case, in the second half of 2008, a dozen employees were employed in the office so that spending was shown to be lower, and the increase in 2009 actually showed that for these new ones they would not have until the end of the 12th month and there was a calculation of our service that would be missing, about 4%, not 4% more funds for 2009 than for 2008, but that a total of around 200 thousand kuna would be missing for salaries in 2009. That turned out to be one serious problem. As for mentioning the means to implement the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, see the text adopted by the Croatian Parliament in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination is provided for in part of the means necessary for the implementation of the law, million and 200 thousand kuna. So that's not what the occupier predicted for the salary of three employees. It is that this law is a new law that requires a presentation through the media, through the stands, through activities in the whole of the Republic, that means travel, that means experts, that means costs that are certainly much higher in the first year than when it already reaches the public to a sufficient extent. So these million and 200 Croatian parliaments set out the means to implement the law. And there's actually real information. As for the assessment that politics can be talked about in one part of the report, Mr Malcic would probably be silent, but out of respect for him, I don't think it was an appropriate assessment. Politics and the public defender, these are two dissuasive concepts in that office, absolutely never within four years have I felt any of them. As for the issue of the fundamental authority of the attorney general and the judiciary, I would actually try to simplify things. The Constitutional Court in a number of cases judges of violations of human rights arising from the work of courts. The chapter of human rights is included under the title of protection of human rights in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Law on the Attorney General obliges the Advocate General to give an overview of the state of human rights. Therefore, if 30, 40 or 50% of the citizens are personally or in writing told by a complaint against the judiciary, then it is the duty of the attorney general to do so rather than to act on it and when he meets the Parliament on what order and what problems the citizens face to inform the Croatian Assembly of the problems they have addressed. So this is not about him overstepping his powers, but only fulfilling his duty, which is to report to the Croatian Parliament on the degree of respect for human rights. It is considered negative here, those who complain of human rights violations, clearly do not address those to whom the bodies have complied with a request, so there was no breach. It's the basis of actually why here in all the reports so far and partly it's been about justice. Knowing the conclusions and reports of the Board of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Malcic prepared a few sentences that I would like to read to you. The Advocate General is pleased that unlike last year, when all the committees accepted the report and when their reports and parliamentary debates could not identify the reasons why the Assembly decided to take the report to the knowledge rather than to accept it, this time in the report of the two committees, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Justice this year, there are reasons why these committees propose only receiving knowledge and what they consider to be controversial. These reasons primarily relate to assessments of the situation, facilities and qualifications and proposals in relation to the judiciary and the judicial authorities. It is not clear from these reports whether the committees disagree with the assessments and qualifications or proposals and reports, but it is clear that they consider these assessments, qualifications and proposals to be transferred by the Advocate General. And while disagreements with some assessments and proposals of the Ombudsman may be possible, necessary, and desirable, as part of the normative relationship between the Parliament and its authority, and the Advocate General takes them seriously into account, the assessments of incompetence are at least questionable. In fact, never during these 4 years, although all reports contained assessments and proposals on the judiciary, the question of powers to give such assessments and proposals was raised and all reports were accepted. What was at the hearing was whether the powers of the Ombudsman had to be extended by law to the authority of the Advocate General in individual court cases. In this regard, even last year's conclusion by the Assembly has obliged the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare amendments to the Law on the Ombudsman in line with the proposals and positions of the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of Croatia. In addition, the Parliament passed a Law on Discrimination of Discrimination extending the powers of the Ombudsman in relation to the judiciary, and a call for a constitutional provision that states that the section of the Ombudsman is governed by law. So the Parliament has already defined the matter. Finally, from the 2002 report of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, we find the opinion of the Committee that it is wrong to discuss the judiciary, but that it is authorised to do so. So it's actually a small and confusing message from the 2002 Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, and 2009. Based on this and earlier, the Public Prosecutor, and this one, they now considered it their duty to learn about the Parliament's human rights violations in relation to the judiciary, the more the vast number of citizens, too, who are addressing the Ombudsman, do so in connection with their problems before courts and other judicial authorities. That's how much I would have had to deal with on boards and here, considering that they needed to be explained a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35901	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Resumption of the session tomorrow at 9:30 from the Proposal for a Law on Protection against Family Violence, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, Proposal for a candidate to elect members of the State Judicial Council, Final Proposal for a Law on Medical Insemination, etc. A 2008 report on the work of the Ombudsman's staff. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: "We have received the 2008 report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman. a year." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 34 against the proposed conclusion. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The opinions, remarks and proposals presented in the debate on the report, as well as the remarks, proposals and recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the report, are delivered to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent state authorities and bodies with public authority more effective." I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. We can vote. Score. With 105 for, 1 abstention, the proposed conclusion was accepted. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "It is proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to task the competent authorities of the state administration in order to remove irregularities listed in the report and in cooperation with the Ombudsman to further consider certain remarks, and to find a solution to their quicker removal." I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. To vote. Score. With 101 for and 1 abstention, the proposed conclusion was reached. Comrade Furio, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35903	Mr. Vice President. The Human Rights Committee is at least essential for a report by the attorney general and our conclusion for the second year in a row was to accept this report. I do not understand why this Parliament, if we live in a parliamentary state, puts to a vote every time, but in a second year in a row, a proposal from the Government rather than a proposal from Parliament's parent body.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35904	It shall be put to the vote on a proposal from the parent committee. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35905	That's just because, Mr. Vice President... Mr. Vice President, which is why the Constitution Committee...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35906	Because it says in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that the Ombudsman is also responsible for his report to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-07-0.u35907	That's what you and Arlovic wrote, Mr. Vice President, not the Rules of Procedure.
