ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28168	Let's move on. - Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, second reading, P.Z. No. 171; The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, agriculture, fisheries and rural development, local and regional self-government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution and by representative Mr Zoran Vinkovic and the clubs of HSS and HDZ. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Josip Kraljičković will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28169	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and respected parliamentary representatives. It is my pleasure, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to present the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber as a final proposal. First of all, I would like to thank the parliamentary committees and, in particular, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system for the very constructive discussions and proposals formed in the amendments, which will improve the text of the law to provide an excellent basis for the establishment of a Croatian agricultural chamber. The law on agriculture adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2001 has already created assumptions for preparation for both work and establishment, i.e. the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. For the first time in the Croatian government's right, it is now signed to prepare and pass the law in 2008. The law was read in the Croatian Parliament on 1 October 2008. After considering all the observations and proposals referred to in the text, the first text of the law then was implemented and installed in the final draft of the law almost all the observations and proposals. So the text we hold before you represents an excellent basis for the establishment of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Among the many activities that the chamber will carry out under the law, we set out two and this control of measuring development and the registration of direct sales for agricultural holdings, which will be the public authority of the chamber and the basis for the signing of mandatory membership. Membership in the chamber will be mandatory and members shall be all natural and legal persons enrolled in the register of agricultural holdings. How's the picture today? Today he's at the Ministry of Agriculture,... the development of a register of 178 thousand agricultural holdings, of which 172 thousand family holdings of 2600 crafts and about 1600 companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of them are organized in more than 800 different associations, which in different ways represent stakeholders of individual groups, to say the manufacturer but we do not have a unique organisation or which represents the overall interests of the entire Croatian space,... all farmers' producers and nor is it as a competent, relevant partner of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Government in the adoption of measures of agrarian policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why we believe that this is also one of the very important reasons for the establishment of such a Croatian agricultural chamber. In the law, the establishment of the chamber proposed that the operation of the affairs and profits of the chamber could establish facilities for the area of one or more units of the district or regional self-government. Sections may also be established in certain areas of activity of chamber members. The bodies of the chamber now consist of the assembly, the board of directors, the supervisory board and the president of the chamber elected for a term of four years. The chamber is an independent and independent professional and business organization. In order to carry out professional, administrative and auxiliary tasks in the chamber, a professional service shall be established whose work shall be managed by the secretary of the chamber. He is elected in the competition and is appointed and resolved by the Management Board. The law lays down relations between the chamber and the units of local and regional self-government as shown in Article 22. For the implementation of the first elections for the Chamber Assembly, a commission is established whose task is to prescribe and implement elections for the Chamber Assembly as provided for in Article 26 of this Law. The Ministry of Agriculture also held a debate with our farmers, representatives of the 23rd Association and Alliance, and we can say with satisfaction that farmers supported the 100% number of proposals, the final text of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, noting that it was supposed to be yesterday but that it would be a very good lever for their action and that they feel and believe that it is the very chamber of social rights for them where they can express their interests and realise their interests. So I'll do it one more time. The aim of the establishment of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is to create institutions that will bring together the main farmers of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, which would represent their professional interests and which would be a truly competent partner to the Government and the sector and co-creator of agricultural policy and development programmes and their effective implementation. Since there is experience in neighbouring countries in the establishment of such chambers, we have used the experiences of both Slovenia and Austria and France and Germany in the proposal for this final text of the law here. The experiences of these countries show that the chamber is a very important factor in the creation and implementation of their policy, as well as the achievement of certain interests in the European Commission, or the European Union. So we're holding that our chamber will also make it possible. It is here for the headquarters of the proposed city of Zagreb, for the reason that almost in Zagreb as a central part of Croatia and the administrative centre of Croatia except for other institutions that can be performed or used simultaneously or on the same day. It is possible for all Croatian economies to be similar to the availability and use and use of time, as for example. The largest number of agricultural holdings located in the County of Osijek-Baranja, the second in a row is Zagrebačka County, then Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska etc. So, Split-Dalmatia, we can't say that only in one county are our agricultural holdings, but are located in all counties. What I would particularly like to stress is that this law allows farmers to organise their own chamber according to their best interests, their wish, and that allows this law to organise it through the statutes. So, we didn't tell them how and what they have to do here, but they do it according to, when they name the congregation, choose the congregation, they organize through the statutes the chamber they think is best for them. We believe that this will be a very good basis and a starting point for the better work and organisation of our farmers and cooperation with the Croatian Government and with all relevant institutions in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28170	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development? The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28171	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Article 4 of this final proposal of the law in the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture states that the activity of the chamber is done by the following tasks: promotion of protection, representation of the interests of the chamber members before the authorities of the state administration, local regional self-government, in particular in the process of establishing rules of interest for farmers. Following that, the coordination of the interests of chamber members, the monitoring of the situation in agriculture, rural space, the coordination of the activities of agricultural organisations, etc., etc. I don't want to pick it all up. In principle, this initiative is certainly not bad, only on one condition that membership in that chamber is voluntary. It is crucial to follow on this page 26. where it is literally said that the funds for the establishment of the chamber are provided in the state budget, in the division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and for the implementation of this law, the funds are provided from planned sources for the operation of the chamber in accordance with the provision of Article 24 of this Act, and are literally listed here by the membership fees, the means of carrying out their own activity, and exceptional revenues, gifts, sponsorships, etc. Article 9 shall mean their interests by means of a voluntary association in the sections referred to in Article 8. The membership in the chamber, that is the essence, is shared by compulsory and voluntary. The members of the Chamber of Natural Persons in Article 10 shall be registered in the Register of Agricultural Economics representing the holder in accordance with the provisions of the business regulation and then natural persons, agricultural holdings, etc., etc. I think that you make people, first of all these small farmers listed in the register, become members of the chamber, and that in this oddity they pay a chamber contribution is not your promising. I think it'll create one sodium, one natural resistance to an idea like this that I said doesn't have to be bad. For me, it's a mandatory payment of that contribution, mainly for small farmers, something we had in '48. when we forced people into cooperatives. And do you really think that, say, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce would spend how much money it spends if there was no obligation to, say, membership in the same? Everyone in this country is right to fight against the so-called. parafiscal charges, whether or not these parafiscal charges are determined by units of local self-government, municipalities, cities, county, Croatian radiotelevision, and should be abolished. Hoteliers in every room have to pay a television subscription, so there is no such thing as anywhere in the world, except in Croatia. And we are now introducing another new obligation, and that is no less than that of the most vulnerable branch of the Croatian economy, which is agriculture. Who are we forcing to team up with? That's what I said, this Article 10(1) and (2). So we're pushing these individuals, these little individuals. Those large agricultural entities, they will act through the Chamber of Commerce anyway, but their interests will be protected by the government, this or that ministry, and we will transfer ambition to these small ones, I dare say, one or more parties to hire a few of their people to, let's say for them a representative position in the Agricultural Chamber. That's why I personally advocated the volunteering of membership in that chamber, so who loves it then be my guest. Why, on the other hand, and that's the question, we gentlemen don't copy our neighbours, in Germany it clearly doesn't deal with the formation of the agricultural chamber of their federal state, but rather with the formation of the agricultural chamber of the member of the federal state. It's the Länderi in Austria. It is the same or similar in France, in one Italy where these are regions, etc., etc. It is clear that Croatian counties cannot compare with either French or Austrian or Italian regions, but the Agricultural Chamber, which, on the other hand, should be located in Zagreb, does not make sense either. If you were Mr. Secretary of State, or those who proposed this law, you'd say Osijek, Djakovo, Slavonski Brod, so I wouldn't say anything. So let's make it an embryo of the politrical structure, but in Zagreb to form or choose the seat of the agricultural chamber so it's at least, I'll say it doesn't make sense. The only person here in this town who's into agriculture, how I'm kind of experiencing it, that's this Squirt Man, and that's what it's all about. In Zagreb, to be cynical, one importing chamber should be formed, and the import of agricultural products has destroyed me, I dare say, a village in Slavonia and Croatian agriculture. And therefore, the Dalmatians would really have to “go on ” and say to the mother. So, give that Agricultural Chamber to the Slavs. Zagreb currently has almost all the other institutions, all the ministries are here, large public enterprises from the Croatian electro-privreda, Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Croatian highways as far as I know, INA, Croatian Forests. All the banks here are as concentrated as that. Of course, they're both private and that sort of thing, chambers, so let's at least give that one last chamber that should be formed to those who know what to do with it. Let's get this straight. I don't mind Zagreb, though. But the citizens of Zagreb will also say, so what else will one such institution tell us now? On the other hand, Croatia's metropolisation is not good for Croatia. In the right sense, Zagreb will vacuum Croatia's political, financial, economic, demographic and it is not promising for the very city of Zagreb, either for Croatia or for the Croatian periphery. Zagreb, i.e. The government must start to think about regionalising Croatia, because our government sees itself increasingly difficult when it comes to both the economy and a whole series of other issues. And I think it is time to start talking about a politic structure of the Republic of Croatia, and this will say that one Ministry of Agriculture should start thinking about being in Osijek, one tourism in Poreč, or I don't know about Opatija, shipbuilding, let's say in Rijeka, no matter what they almost shut down their shipyard, traffic in one Zadar or Split, and industrial development should be designed by the Istrians. It's hardly clear that's going to happen, it sounds beautiful. But this country really needs to be decentralisationd and as the same question is how much it is opportunised to create some new institutions at this time to actually take care of the merits of this party or that party and then push it further towards Zagreb. If we don't move the ministry out of Zagreb, and I'm sure it won't happen, then let's give the Agricultural Chamber to the Slavons. And where such a chamber of agriculture will be in Slavonia let the Slavons agree among themselves. I'll tell you one more time for the end. The idea of forming a Chamber of Agriculture is certainly not a bad idea, but I oppose the obligation, memberships in the same, those who are in the register, i.e. I think it is the same as the opportunized headquarters of the chamber at this time located in the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28172	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28173	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleague Cain said this was the same as the '48s. when people were forced into cooperatives. It's an incorrect allegation that by setting up a chamber no one takes anything. On the contrary, it allows farmers to become active participants in the creation of agricultural policy and the chamber will allow them to partner with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in these talks. Citing examples of other countries, he has read completely wrongly that they have an organised system of membership in chambers, so, for example, Austria, Germany, Luxembourg, Slovakia, Poland, France, Slovenia has a mandatory membership in the chamber just as the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure has proposed to the Ministry of Agriculture and we support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28174	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We discussed the agricultural economic chamber a few months ago and it is good that the proposer included in this final text a whole series of remarks that were then made. It just confirms that we were right despite all those allegations, replicas, but the fact that we were right. The fact that we were in the management of membership even if it is a category with which we disagree in the club of the Croatian People's Party. We are talking about the obligation of membership in the chamber, because membership in the chamber should be a consequence of interest. The membership in the chamber should be due to the good work of the chamber and perspective or future of those who are members of the chamber. And make sure that when the chamber members see that perspective, when they feel that the chamber gives them a new space, they'll certainly be members and it's not at all questionable whether they will or won't. However, in this variant they are mandatory given the whole range of incentives fully justified in agriculture. It's a shame, and it's not a good thing these incentives don't have their own cost of benefit analysis. I'll talk about the incentives later, but in the event of a possible voluntary be sure and I'm sure membership in the chamber would also be conditional on payment of incentives. Therefore, it is good and we fully support it for these reasons, not for all reasons, but for all these formal reasons we also support the proposal of the Constitution Committee that almost all members, means that we do not have two categories of mandatory and voluntary, but that almost all the members of the chamber must be members of the chamber. We at the Croatian People's Party club will support this Final Bill on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, primarily for the reason that our agricultural producers are simply expecting it after a whole series of strategies, laws, proposals, actions have been deceived. They expect that a system may be established through the chamber where they will have the opportunity to say something in which they are essentially aware of the process of proposing this chamber, knowing certain articles of this final proposal, I am not sure that they will give the result of what agricultural producers expect. I'm sure some of them will get it for sure. And I'm sure they'll get those 220 first ones on the list at the height of paid incentives, they'll definitely get it, but the question of whether and how much will those who are at the start of the lists of paid incentives in all these years behind us get. Therefore, not to be too long, we will certainly support this final draft of the founding law, but we suspect that this bill in the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture and a set-up of the Agricultural Chamber for several reasons, that it will also fulfill its function because the essence of agriculture today is extremely dramatic. We are witnessing that our strategy is being shot at seams, we are witnessing that in 2008, 2 billion and 600 million dollars of food was imported, that it was at the average rate of the National Bank, at the middle rate of the dollar that it was around 13 billion and 250 million kuna. We are witnessing that at the same time only 7 billion kuna was exported, that we have a negative balance of 6 billion and 250 thousand kuna. If we put in those six billion kunas one usual income, 20, 25, 30%, if we converted it with an average salary on this scale how much more we imported than we exported, we lost 20,000 jobs in 2008. If we had trained our agriculture, and I was asking why we didn't and why it came to this, we would have 20,000 jobs more. Only by the difference we've paid, what our disparity is to import with exports. It is absolutely certain that such a agricultural economic policy is something that this country does not deserve. It is absolutely certain that this is something that leads to the survival of the family economy which are the main bearers of agricultural production and certainly for the overall state of agriculture the only and greatest culprit is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the only and greatest culprit in that government is the Ministry of Agriculture in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And there are no expedient circumstances. I don't mention any government now, but I'm calling all the ministers. I'm calling them. No minister after this type of data imports of $2 billion and $600 million, lost 20,000 jobs only through mathematics on average, we don't say everything else. No minister has an excuse, but at the same time he is obliged to give the Croatian public the following, and this is a green report which is an obligation in the 2002 Agriculture Act, Article 43, a green report to determine what our situation is in agriculture, this green report is going on an annual basis, and as long as we have no opportunity in this Croatian Parliament and we will not have the opportunity to discuss the green report and that in this green report we see the real elements of our situation in agricultural production, I think that all these measures we bring are fire-fighting, and I could say that in terms of throwing sand into the eyes of those who are the most threatened, and at this point, small family economies. About the success of our agricultural production there are a whole series of elements that can give an assessment and an assessment. I want to mention one. In fact, in time, the Croatian public came out with an argument and it was disastrous when the import of pigs from the total amount of imported pigs could form a column from Zagreb to Rijeka. A year and a half ago, we said disaster because this column is from Zagreb to Zemun. My colleagues and colleagues, it with imports in 2008 of 764 thousand and 500 pieces of pigs, our Ministry of Agriculture led that column to Sofia. Can we talk about the success of agricultural production? What elements both in 2001 and 2002 and in 2003 and in 2006 and in 2007 and 2008 caused an annual increase? I think that's the point, and I think we need to talk about it, and I think without answering those questions, I've mentioned only one thing, there's a whole series, and I think we're going to have a hard time creating those conditions for our agricultural producers that they expect and completely justified, completely justified. Because the fact is, in the last few months here in the Croatian Parliament, we have discussed the Law on Agricultural Land, it has passed in the Assembly the way he went thanks to his colleague, Chehok, who came at the last minute and was 77th vote. I'm not going into whether this Agricultural Land Act is a question of ownership or not. I don't want to open the subject at all, but the fact is that one of the arguments of the Law on Agricultural Land was ground devastation. Why is it abandoned? Because what we're saying is that our people don't want to work? That our farms aren't ready to work, work their own land? I'm talking about my Zagorje. If they value anything, they appreciate the land. If my Zagori are ready for a centimeter of land to be tried for 20 years, be assured that they appreciate the country. But it certainly does not benefit the country if they invest 60, that they do not benefit from the land, and therefore do not process it. The fact is that in 2001, the incentives changed in 2002, and since then, disaster has started for small agricultural economies. 7.5 thousand cattle in Varazdin County today are less than in 2002, 7.5 thousand. Be assured that's five thousand stands left empty. At the same time, the Golf Act has been raised to a level of national interest. Is that okay? And how much of this Golf Act is just entering the area of agricultural land, how much? We said it depends on the units of the local administration. I think there should be one dose of correctness and responsibility in both such arguments and in proposing such laws. Recently, a Law on a village development agency has been passed and there is a need to deal with scientific work in agriculture. It's perfectly fine and perfectly correct. But I'm asking the agricultural colleges, asking all the institutions that do scientific work in agriculture, so where's the problem, what's the problem? Is there no communication between the executive and them? We discussed the paying agency last night. We support her. First, the obligation is and what is the highest value of this agency is the introduction of control. We're missing control the most. And specifically related to this law since we are running out of time at the Croatian People's Party Club, we will support this bill. We're talking for reasons because maybe one day because at this point he's pouring out one optimism, one possibility, one straw rescue for agricultural producers, if it's going to happen, we're going to see it and we're going to see for sure at this point when we finally get a "green report". I support these proposals or objections from the Constitution Committee. And in the end, the same no less important thing. We're going to form this chamber from the top down. We cite experience in Austria, France, Germany, Slovenia and all others. And if you're reading and it's good that the motionary has put the experience of others into this law. But, gentlemen, dear, in all these countries, in all these countries, the chamber first made at regional level, specifically in the French department, so it took about twenty years to build the Alliance of Departmental Agricultural Chambers in France. Same story in Germany, same story in Austria. And be assured, we're on our way to establishing these chambers around the county, in the regions. We don't have regional policies and we're bound by it, we're obliged to pass it under the Agriculture Act. If we were to follow that principle, be assured that the picture would be completely different and that the purpose of establishing the agricultural chamber would be clearer for everyone. So let's try to do something and what's going to happen is we'll see which many other elements are present in our agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28176	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first one came from a representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28177	Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Mr. Koračević said that our agricultural producers were in a number of cases deceived and so will be in the case of the chamber. On the contrary, the chamber will allow farmers to get their own organization, their own body through which they will be able to protect their interests well and negotiate with the government. He also pointed out that for the overall situation in agriculture he describes as catastrophic, the Ministry of Agriculture is wrong. Kola Koračević, it is not wrong for the Ministry of Agriculture that the Croatian state of Banovina Croatia has so far not had its own development policy that would lead the Croatian village to progress. We have always been indirectly decided in Vienna, Pesti and Belgrade, and now instead of putting all our heads on the pile and supporting the good projects that this government and the Ministry of Agriculture are constantly criticising and distorting the facts. Specific market lines are introduced, black market suppression, collection and marketing cooperatives are organised, market infrastructure is built, direct sales of products are encouraged. These are all the measures this ministry and this government is working on, and I don't see why you keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28178	Another correction, MP Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28179	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would, in effect, correct Mr. Korakevic's incorrect allegations that all the measures implemented by the ministry and all the measures implemented by the government in agriculture were to throw sand into the eyes. I mean, that's absolutely incorrect. I'd just like to remind my fellow MPs that since 2006 we've been here, so for 2009, we've increased our support in agriculture, so it's an incentive for a billion kuna. So that's the money that goes to our farmers. Also, a number of operational programmes have been adopted where not only budget money goes but also Croatian Bank's money for reconstruction and development, so the guarantees and money of HAMAG etc. Therefore, these problems are not since yesterday, structural reforms are difficult. The problems of imports are not only Croatian but the European Union, in particular, exposure to third countries where cheap products come from, cheap labour, small social benefits etc. These are the problems facing both the European Union and the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28180	And the third correction, MP Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28181	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Koračević, said several incorrect allegations. I would refer only to the one where he said that the agricultural strategy was shooting at the seams and that the Ministry of Agriculture was wrong. That's not true. Namely, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian government are making huge efforts to create competitive agriculture. In addition to this, these operational programmes in beef, pork. 550 and more modern stands in the last few years have been formed, milk production etc. You said about 7,000 throats were less in your county. Come to my municipality, dear colleague, where on one morning, a cow. A double number of cows has been increased, so individuals... All these programs give results, the strategy is long-term and will certainly show results over the foreseeable period of time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28182	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28183	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club as we did and in our first reading means we support the adoption of this law and the establishment of the Agricultural Chamber. We believe that the establishment of a chamber is another step in institutional harmonisation and adaptation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. We also welcome the fact that since the first reading, the ministry has accepted the largest number of objections from parliamentary representatives and clubs, and we believe that it is particularly important that the chamber is guaranteed independence, which means it does not exclude good co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture, but this was particularly an observation highlighted by the selection of members of the chamber supervisory board and it is also accepted that the Ministry of Agriculture will not give consent to the statutes. What is also important is what we believe to also ensure the independence of the work of the chamber. Related to membership whether it is mandatory, voluntary, etc. I think that after the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure has shown that this dilemma has been clarified so that all those enrolled in the register will have mandatory membership. What is certainly coming is that the situation is now being regulated between the economic, craftsmanship and this new agricultural chamber. We believe that the chamber should in the future provide in some way and support and logistics especially to small producers that are today organised in different associations. What's good is that manufacturers get together. But what is not good is the fact that less than 5% so only about 5 to 6 thousand members of a total of 172 thousand family holdings that are registered in a register with the Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, these 5 to 6 thousand members are members of more than 800 different registered associations. So, for example. Only in winemaking do we have 80 different associations. It is clear that such a system cannot be support, it cannot be a partner, a good partner to the ministry, and even when laws are being done but clearly and it is being adopted by different measures of agricultural policy. Associations have played their part in the development of Croatian agriculture, but it is certain that this will be one added value and that the interests of agricultural producers will be articulated through the work of the chamber. It should also be recalled that Croatia's entry into the European Union and everything that our agricultural producers need to do to adapt, to become compatible, in order to implement a complete common policy of the European Union, that this requires one organised support, an organised logistics. Here is a reminder of a number of data, so more than 40% of the European Union's budget stands out so that somewhere around 52 billion is allocated to agriculture annually so that when it comes to legislation regulated by the area of agriculture that it does 50% of the EU's legislation. It should also be said that, counting from 1990 to today, the European Union has already implemented 4 serious agricultural reforms. So these are such reforms that indeed the entire system that has become particularly difficult in this regard of support and incentives. It's built on one new basis. It is clear that all of this could be monitored, so that our producers could manage in this one mosaic and regulations and changes and ways of business etc. means they need one such logistics as the chamber. The chamber as a roof institution has a great chance of being a key promoter and to protect the interests of agricultural producers in the future. It also means being a partner to the state, but to be in some way a collective in the adoption of measures and the conduct of agricultural policy. It should also help implement structural reforms. Associations will not disappear by adopting the Chamber Act, they will not be put out in question by this law, but what is expected in this area of association and the organisation of agricultural producers that they will no longer turn to association on the basis of certain productions. We already know in the case of the protection of these indigenous traditional products, that no protection, no designation of origin, no tradition, no geographical origin can be obtained unless the producers are associated with associations. And there is absolutely the importance of the association and I say there is a specialization to individual productions. And surely it will contribute and help that associations will no longer be dragged into political games or something worse to be politicized themselves. The HDZ Club welcomes the fact that the chamber will be independent, that its work will be managed by members through the chamber body and by agricultural producers. What I said last time on behalf of the club about the chamber, I think it should be repeated and that should be taken into account. In fact, the chamber should run a quality human policy. What the chamber must not become in the future is that it serves to take care of people in any way, so also in that professional and biological sense, etc. So in the chamber, they should really be the most competent most professional people, as well as in the ministry, so that they can complete their duties. It should also be recalled that the chamber will, in accordance with this law, do certain jobs, what we call public powers to be paid from the state budget and I do not know there is control of rural development measures, keeping records etc. Therefore, these jobs that are compatible with the work of the ministry and the necessary meanings should be carried out in a very good way by professional and competent people, and I think, above all, that when setting up the chamber we should take care of it now, we have been able to go from the start to the competent people who will be able to do the job. Croatia has experience in chamber systems from the Chamber of Commerce to the Chamber of Commerce and we think that only its establishment and its work will not be, there will be no problem, that it will be an important link in the management of economic and agricultural policy. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of the Agricultural Chamber Act. First of all, we believe that in the times ahead, an important partner and corrective and state and ministry will also be the support and assistance to our agricultural producers and that the work of the chamber along with all actors will contribute to a more successful implementation of structural reforms in agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28184	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28185	Thank you very much, so I want to correct one of the findings of fellow Kovacevic who said in his presentation, which is that the independence of the agricultural chamber is guaranteed. I am not sure that independence is guaranteed, as Article 23 states that the annual work programme and the annual financial plan before the assembly brings it to the assembly must be given its consent by the ministry responsible for agriculture. Also, the annual work report cannot be adopted at the assembly, cannot be discussed at the chamber assembly unless it has previously received the opinion of the agriculture ministry. If we draw a parallel with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which is as mandatory as this, on the work programme, on the annual financial plan, on the report, neither the Government nor any other ministry must be referred. In this case, the Ministry of Agriculture is present both at the entrance and exit. Therefore, I'm not sure that it ensures the independence of the chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28186	Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28187	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasants' Club will support the adoption of the Agricultural Chamber Act. This is important because of the interest and protection of the farmers themselves, the family economies dealing with agriculture in Croatia and their associations. It should be said that the agricultural chamber is very necessary. Many of the European countries we have had the opportunity to visit whose experiences we often call on have established agricultural chambers, and we can also say that Austria, Germany, France, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Luxembourg has a well-developed system of membership in the chamber that is mandatory and therefore we at the HSS Club welcome the decision of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that has resolved the dilemmas about how to organise in Croatia the agricultural chamber. So we also believe that membership in that chamber should be mandatory. Why is that extremely significant? Today, according to some statistics in Croatia, we have 800 different associations of agricultural producers and when talks are held that are necessary not only in the agriculture sector but also in other sectors and if we really want to reach a consensus on important issues, and surely one of the crucial issues at the moment when Croatia enters the European Union is and agriculture is then we must be clear and fair and say that it is almost impossible to communicate with all 800 different associations in agriculture. And surely because of their correctness, we need to find a model of how to pass on information to them, how they can choose their representatives with whom the authorities or the ministry will talk, negotiate, and how to achieve this partnership and make joint decisions. In order for all of this to be realised, of course, select representatives of peasant associations and family economies should conduct elections and give them a place where they will represent their interests and a better place than the agricultural chamber at this point certainly no one can propose. The Ministry of Agriculture is also intensively sending messages to the associations of agricultural producers that it wants to talk to them that it wants to have them in the role of an equal partner, that it wants to include them on the basis of expert bases in co-creation of agricultural policy and implementation of agricultural policy measures, and that is certainly extremely important. So, the agricultural chamber is where they will be representatives of agricultural producers who should be interested in representing them. It is not a place where someone will be drawn into love as there has been insinuation during some previous discussions. The agricultural chamber is a place where partner relations will develop between the government and rural associations and family economies. And the agricultural chamber is a place that will be a professional and advisory service of agricultural producers. Of course, whenever we set up a new institution, the question of whether the money for this is secured, we, in the framework of the agriculture budget, have provided funds for the establishment of the agricultural chamber. I must say, after communication with representatives of peasant associations and family economies, their expectations from the agricultural chamber are particularly high and especially in the part where we talk about negotiations with the European Union. Because we think that no one can represent the interests of peasants better than themselves and that's the truth. The villagers ask for a policy only a legal framework, and in one place they want to have both the profession and the interest and by harmonising our legislation with European legislation. It is necessary to pass 60 laws in the agriculture sector, serious laws directly and indirectly concerning agricultural producers, and certainly the Ministry of Agriculture will not be able to do so in quality without such a partner relationship. It would be completely unserious if these laws were passed without consulting those whose backs would have to be implemented and implemented. We know that 176 thousand family economies are listed in the register and it is impossible to communicate each law with all 176 thousand family economies or with 800 associations. But if they choose between themselves the representatives they trust, then it is quite possible to carry out it correctly and effectively. The attitude of peasants is that no law adopted in the area of agriculture can and must not be passed without them. And we at the HSS Club fully support that attitude. When we talk about agricultural producers in Croatia, we can say that they have so far not been too fortunate in representation in individual chambers. The fishermen only have a Croatian crafts chamber, so according to the Law on crafts, they are obliged to be members of the crafts chamber. On the other hand, the largest border union of PPDIV was able to fight for the workers "PIK Vrbovac", "Belje", "Kutjeva", but it seems that the peasant, our little peasant around whom we are always carefully discussing, but often we find it difficult to take concrete measures or raise a hand for them when that peasant needs help. The peasant, unfortunately, seems to have remained a cult in the perception of most, and his interests are only being protected by a few. The HSS is not ashamed, it is not afraid to say that it has been protecting the interests of that peasant for over a hundred years, but we believe that the interests of peasants should be organised to protect the peasants themselves and that they will find the background precisely in the Agricultural Chamber. That this government, the Ministry of Agriculture has fulfilled its promises and has done much to implement the rural agricultural policy, speak both concrete data and concrete facts. From the very adoption of the agricultural budget, which is 30% higher than it was in the previous years, until we raised capital investments for simple investments to 40%, and for complex investments to 50%. This specifically means that farmers who build farms are returned from the state 50% of their investment, which is certainly not insignificant, that we have provided half a billion kuna in the operating programme segment. If we had fulfilled our promises of speech and the fact we returned the incentive to one hectare and one throat and allowed over 70,000 family economies to return to the incentive system. That we have fulfilled our promises is also saying that we have raised income support for another group to 10 thousand kuna. That we have fulfilled our promises also says that we have paid back the support, the backlogs for capital investment and everything that belongs to the peasant in the amount of $3.4 billion for 2008. That we have fulfilled our promises and that we have provided considerable resources for rural development because we are aware that we need to follow trends in the European Union, that we need to follow the trends that are taking place in the common European agricultural policy. And this Parliament has brought a budget in which half a billion kuna has been provided precisely for rural development projects that need to help farmers to really, specifically on the ground start with the realisation of the Croatian village rebirth programme, and the goal of this programme is to keep people in the country, so provide them with adequate and communal and social infrastructure. In the HSS, we believe that we owe it to people living in rural areas because they are the guardians of that space. While they live in our Croatian villages, there is smoke from chimneys, bread is roasted in the oven, it is not grown in shikas, but the land is processed. To those who do not understand it, here they are having infertile debates and objecting there is something else to repeat. The Croatian village has preserved the language, culture, costume, faith of the Croatian people throughout the centuries. It is because of their legacy, their concerns, that today we proudly can enter the European Union, because we do not have to fear as some other peoples that we will lose our identity. That is why the Croatian village deserves a different relationship, however, deserves a consensus when we talk about the survival and rebirth of the Croatian village, the consensus of all MPs here. The Croatian village must not only care about HSS or only the ruling coalition. The Croatian village should be at the heart of all MPs here in the Croatian Parliament, no matter which political party they belong to. And I hope that this law that we are passing today, the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, is one step forward and that despite the political differences, ideological differences, everyone is aware that this law should be passed and that you will all support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28188	Thank you very much. It is next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, representative Dragutin Bodakoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28189	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I would like to begin, on behalf of the SDP club, after this essay on the Croatian village, which was given to us by MP Petir, that this debate today on the final proposal of the law on the Croatian agricultural chamber, on behalf of the SDP club, also begin a quote, but the quote by Josip Kozarac from "Dead Capitals" when the association Vlatko Lesic explains why he lives and works in the country. "I've already said that my reasons may not interest you, but since you're forcing me to answer, I have to tell you that that huge pile of dead capital that's in our country, and we're still increasing that dead capital because on the one hand, we've all turned to gnawing naked bone, and on the other hand, we're too comfortable to roll our sleeves, get up and get the treasure out of our country." Why did I start with this passage from "Dead Capital"? Because all the discussions in the first reading that pointed out that the establishment of this institution should be aimed at bringing together producers and experts in the field of agriculture to the maximum use of natural resources, which is this country which is god-given for agriculture and agricultural production and which enables us to become independent of importing basic agricultural products. Not all of these proposals have found an important place in this final bill. On the contrary, how and where the officers will be worked and where they will be seated, it is well-developed. But as we're going to solve these problems, I can't see from this proposal from the Agricultural Chamber. The proposal does not show how we will achieve this goal, which is fundamental. It means raising the competitiveness of agricultural producers and their products on the European market, because, in my opinion, it is the main obsession of the promoters to necessarily join all the farmers in the register. So over 170,000 take their membership fees, and all those who should and may actively contribute to the realization of the basic objective of improving the production and use of land resources lists so as not to say under quotes as letter members of an educational, advisory institution. They should be included in me, but you can't see how and how they're going to help this main goal, which means creating our agriculture's competitiveness. The second thing here is that we have many normative examples of the organization of the agricultural chamber in France, Germany, Austria. I think it would be much more quality and better if the promoter told us and explained how he thinks about solving some of the relationships and issues that are currently current. First, let’s say that the payment of incentives lagging behind real production will be resolved. Now it's over $1 and a half billion in debt. How the issue of imports that reached last year will be resolved is over $2 and a half billion and has created the largest imbalance between imports and exports of agricultural products so far. I know I always say that in my discussions, but I think it's an important question that the answer is obtained so we're not even 10%, agriculture is not even 10% of Croatian imports. It's true. Of the $30 billion imports of Croatia, 2 and a half billion are imports of agriculture. However, what it means is that we are through the reduction of these imports. We will then certainly take part of the market that this import product has with us and that we can produce ourselves, so we will have through that part when we sell these products we will also have a certain growth and production and income that we need at these times precisely because all the tendencies that the growth of production will be zero or even below. So I'm kind of asking myself if Croatia is like a country with such imports whether it is even a agricultural country. Why does she even need a Chamber of Agriculture? Perhaps it would be better if we passed a law on an importing agricultural chamber that would balance imports and maybe reduce them. Then, there was the same speech here and now capital investments. However, it was brought in, but what about these payments of incentives for capital investments. Some demands I've heard stand, and they haven't been solved for almost a year. Then solving land problems. What led to the new Agricultural Land Act is a major property problem. How will the Agricultural Chamber handle this? Or one of the key issues that has been shown here now and in the price of corn and corn production, the harmonisation of the freeway and the instructions, that the price of the output product is not less than the cost of the cost and that it does not lead to a debt-slave relationship. The final prices that grains and olives have, and especially corn are now in great decline and peasants are concerned, i.e. they feel that with these prices they are negative and that they will easily come into a situation that they have nothing to live on. When all of this is kind of a question that doesn't give answers to how this Agricultural Chamber is going to solve. However, we are going to new associations of agricultural producers. I think it's also good to welcome the establishment of associations that will handle it. Is that the agency we were talking about yesterday about paying, etc. However, which is why, in my first debate, I also asked the question of who has been involved today in the allegations of helping, solving problems in agriculture. We have a forwarding ministry that would, agriculture with its agencies, services and institutions. Then we already have mandatory institutions, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of crafts, cooperative alliance and others. In addition to all these associations, a mandatory part of the agricultural resources shall be taken for their work, since they are all members of the legal person from the agriculture of those organisations. In addition, we also have associations that free-will agriculture provides, agriculture gives free-will funds such as the association do not know HUP or peasant associations, professional associations. There's a lot of things. All of those farms shall be subject to compulsory or optional contributions. That is why the question arises as to what this new association brings them except for new commitments or better said new membership fees. What we were looking for in the debate on the first reading was to reconsider, and for the purpose of discharging agriculture that it has to do with all the associations that have been established so far, let's see which, finally, how much it costs these farmers. The same reason we didn't get a word of it in this law. Therefore, they cannot be taken into account that the Ministry of Agriculture, instead of finding out how much these existing associations burden agricultural production and price products per hectare, or a kilogram of live cattle, is proposing new burdens for agricultural producers, and I think very badly. It also reduces the competitiveness of their production. Let's not start associations because of those who should work there. The structure here is very well worked out and where will be the headquarters etc. and everything else will be around the regions of these chambers. However, the material benefit of future members is undefined, and the breakthrough of our agriculture and the creation of self-sufficient production is not guaranteed by either of these articles. And speaking of articles of article 4, which lists the tasks and tasks of the chamber, many of which are listed in this article in all and none of the following, indicate that they will be realised. Well, it's easy to count what we're going to do, but what we're going to do. In particular, we do not have confidence in this article in Articles 9 and 10 that speak of mandatory and optional membership. The findings that we are and are not for something never brings a good result, and especially not in the realization of the highlighted objective of the Agricultural Chamber because the objective of the Agricultural Chamber is to restore Croatian agriculture to a sufficient food producer of our population. I can see that an amendment has come about mandatory membership, but there is a new problem as to whether, according to this amendment, one entity is going to have to be a member of one or two or more chambers where it is obliged to be. And so, here at the end, by returning to this beginning of my exposure, I can only say that Kozarce's dead capital will not start or start to use this legal provision in the form of a founding agricultural chamber, but we will therefore already give this globular bone, which is that our agriculture will bring another number of people who, instead of working on the fields, will work on the paper, who will not give new food offerings. It is evident from this statement that problems in Croatian agriculture are huge, that the efforts so far have not produced the right results. Incentives, we were talking here about incentives, how much incentives were given by the state, but then she didn't give the results because we don't have an increase in production, and the import we have bigger than ever, therefore, has to be done a little bit more quality, and not just to say that we did that and that, and actually the result is important, it doesn't matter what we did, but what we did, what result we achieved. The SDP Club and I personally who always support all the proposals that need to help agriculture because I am from Slavonia, I know what agriculture is, I have led and worked long years in agriculture, it is also the basis of survival and development, especially the region from which I come, will therefore support the establishment of a agricultural chamber, with the request that one annual report be submitted to this Assembly on the results it has achieved in the realization of the main objective of the recovery of Croatian agriculture, this agricultural chamber and that it in some way justifys the funds that will be paid through this mandatory membership fee by agriculture to see how useful it has made for the development and recovery of Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28190	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First asked for a representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28191	Dear Madam Vice President, my colleague has misread the law. Namely, he said that the chamber brings new charges and new membership fees. The law clearly states that membership is mandatory, and membership fees will be settled by the statute, so by an internal act that the members of the chamber will adopt. That means they can if they want to decide to be one kuna membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28192	And the second correction, Agent Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28193	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed representative misstated the fact that it says that the competitiveness of this law will be reduced by the adoption of this law. This allegation is incorrect and therefore we correct it because it is precisely the establishment of this chamber that raises the competitiveness of agricultural producers, ultimately the bill itself, in its aim that the establishment of a chamber and the creation and institutional support needed to raise the competitiveness of agricultural producers and their products on the European market, therefore it is not true that this will reduce competitiveness, but rather vice versa, competitiveness will increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28194	Thank you very much. Before we continue to discuss clubs, I would like to inform you that Article 207(3) is in line with Article 207(3). The Rules of Procedure expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes, more precisely at 10.43. Furthermore, for the debate on behalf of the SDSS Representative Club, it is next to the representative of Mile Horvat. He's gone. Excuse me, I'm looking for you upstairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28195	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Let me refer on behalf of the SDSS to this proposal that came to us on behalf of the promoter, so the proposal for a law on Croatia's agricultural chamber. He, as we see in his proposal, is quite short, principled and likely to suffer certain comments, but before that I would just say that it is only good that it is in the explanation, which is explained by these comparative reviews of the development and acquisitions of agricultural chambers in the countries of our environment. So in countries that have a regulated agricultural policy. So it's particularly interesting and an example, it's already mentioned here, but I think it's necessary to say again, an interesting example of France, where the members of the farmers' family are also through the chamber of social, health care, so there's a possibility that in this kind of association and that a social component and care for the members of the agricultural households, or members of the chamber. I think the French model of participation in the assembly is also quite good, and I think about these things when they're brought in by internal acts, statutes or something like that that should be taken into account. The question now is where we are right now. I would comment on my view of the situation, the space I come from, which is Eastern Slavonia and Baranja, so I would say a few thoughts. So, by transitioning large peaks, to not only comment further on the fact of transition, by the disappearance of classical cooperatives, and especially by shutting down the cooperatives that we said were... However, which, according to its essential elements and quantitatively some indicators were almost the same effect as the then large peaks and were practically the most vital segment of villages and peasants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, such negative phenomena have resulted in large layoffs of workers and a large number of these people have been found on the street. That's right, I have to say, I take the opportunity to say that only in one year's transition to Belje, so the strongest dot in Baranja is without a job in one year several thousand people are left with the will of the White administration at the time. It's a period after reintegration. But fortunately, the programme of agricultural land available to agricultural land, which in its idea had the fact of buying, renting or some other forms of acquisition of agricultural land, opened up the possibility that this particular excess labour force, which was created by this policy, was absorbed through the establishment of family agricultural holdings, and I think that it was achieved in the space where I come from and positive effects, positive effects or very stimulating measures, several years ago in the beginning of these ideas through incentives, through capital investments, and we can say here even through very favourable tempting bank loans, banking conditions have been created by a series of family farms, people have entered these projects very bravely, they have entered a sphere of private business in which they have not been so far. They entered the VAT system and became very neat, even one of the neater taxpayers. But that's right with us, here I'm going to point out the fact purely because of the accuracy in the area of Osijek-Baranja County during that period raised by that principle about 3,000 acres of plantation, most of which is a part of the orchard and a small part of the vineyard and it's important to say that it's not all as black as we talk. Last year, this was the result that some 120,000 tonnes of products were dumped on the market. However, there is a problem. Obviously, it is not a problem for the peasant to produce, and obviously the problem arises when it is necessary to earn, capitalize or call as we please. So then there's a problem because there's not enough coolers in the same area of the county. If it's true, I think it's all about one piece of coolant that has European standards and that can tomorrow be a warehouse and a buyer of that fruit produced in Osijek-Baranja County according to these European standards. What's negative is that no quality buy-out market has been formed either. Unfortunately, experience suggests that buyers who work mainly for large mega-markets have become large market monopolies. Their country honours with ransom incentives and they then make the ransom very rigorously towards the common man in a way that classifies and classifies the goods according to high European standards by saying that it is for export. In this way, they indirectly halve their gender and then the same goods end up on shelves of local shops and shops, so to the domestic buyer. I don't want to talk about the charge. Therefore, we think that this way of diversifying the market or non-organising the market and the phenomenon that is now emerging, which is becoming very symptomatic, which is the rigorous behaviour of banks towards their commissioners, the OPGs lately. He's threatening to devastate a good idea that is, therefore, devastationing an idea called the family agricultural economy in our space. And in conclusion, if the chamber as an association that will have its membership in addition to the OPG will also have large systems and if it will be able to eliminate this type of relationship between them and if it will create a more favourable position and treatment of that small producer within the chamber I, on behalf of the SDSS Club, say that we support this concept of forming a Croatian agricultural chamber. And just to take a brief look at the concept of the law itself, the text itself. In a sort of formal material sense, the text is very concise, so I would like to ask some additional explanations, although we have heard some, and the general answer is that everything that is not here will be said or concreteized by internal acts, in particular by the statutes. We can say this in principle, but a debate like this would require more concrete answers, so I would pray if it could be clarified to me, explain what the promoter meant when he said in Article 2 where he defined the objectives of the chamber and said promotion and protection, so supporting members etc. that it's a little bit concrete in some idea, that there's not one feeling left that it's just formalized thesis in this text. In addition, Article 4 of the basic Regulation states that, among other things, direct sales to the EAGF will be kept. I'm being honest with you quite vaguely. I don't know what kind of record that should be, what it's specifically about, and what the results of such a record should be, is it unique accounting which is, of course, impossible, whether it's a possibility of some kind of joint collection? I don't know, it's just that wording really confuses me. And so much disputed article 10, I think a formal legal error has been corrected in time, and that is possible even an unconstitutional construction of such an article because it cannot be discriminatoryly set up a membership one way or another. In particular, we think that membership in the chamber should be unique and that means voluntary. We think that it should be voluntary and that the chamber in its beginnings of work should have stimulating elements that will stimulate people or members of these small OPGs to join, not by force of the law or by force of the provision we force them to be at all costs members of something that may not feel like their own need. So if we do that now, we're a little bit malignant, so we say we do math if we hear that somewhere in 1809 thousands of such subjects are going to say there's going to be 10 kunas a month's fee... It's huge money at the math level every year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about millions of dollars. It gives us the right to think that this may not be one of the basic and main motives why we oblige people to be mandatory members of that chamber. Although I appreciate that there are examples in European countries where this has been resolved and different. We think that maybe more clearly we should define the participation of the counties in the organs themselves, so in the assembly in the management structure of the chamber. And finally, we are interested in how to see the decentralisation of that chamber, or where the specific detachments of that chamber will be, because today it is very important to know that it will be in the areas of special state concerns, in areas where the basic existential conditions are at stake, for life, and on the organised market and organised ransom, etc. is one futuristic thought that will not come to that space for long. We also think and finally think that the headquarters of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber should be in eastern Slavonia for very simple and fragmentatic reasons. So where the highest concentration of this activity is produced, it should also be the headquarters of the association, so if it is well networked, if it is well decommissioned, there is no need for it to be in the capital. From all of this, here we are at the SDS Club, with this concept of course, with these additional clarifications, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28196	Thank you very much. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28197	Dear Madam Vice President, dear secretary, colleague and colleague. The National Minority Club supports the adoption of the Agricultural Chamber Act, and I regret more and more that it had to be for the full 8 years since the adoption of the Agriculture Law, which was foreseen by the establishment of the Agricultural Chamber for not doing so. Perhaps today we would talk about a different agriculture, not agriculture as a gnawed bone, but perhaps just those activities that have chambers of crafts, medically not to say which others who still protect the professional association are just such activities. In any event, if the absence of an institution which should represent the professional interests of agricultural production, which should create measures of agricultural policy and represent normally agricultural producers towards state administration authorities, surely and with a view to improving agriculture, we need such a body. In fact, listening to colleagues who say in part that they do not support the adoption of this chamber, I only remember how easily we accepted the adoption of the Law on the Forest Chamber, although I do know that almost 94% of the area is state-owned, that only 6% is distributed in private ownership, and here where we have a reverse situation right now. Where most are privately owned, where agriculture is indeed distributed from one side to almost 170 subjects of the family economy, i.e. on agricultural companies and where a large one body in that rural area is necessary, i.e. in uniting rural space we are trying practically not to need a chamber. Because I am just hoping that this chamber will initiate and, in order to develop Croatia's agriculture and family economies faster, to adopt a strategy on agriculture, we will no longer talk about some two directions of our agriculture, but that we will first of all talk about an effective, competitive, self-sufficient agriculture that will start exporting that will really adapt to market conditions. I am sorry today that several times they have even wrinkled sparks related to incentives that are not small, a consensus is required on how much it is necessary to unite around agricultural policy. However, I must say that I am a skeptic when I look at the support that goes into agriculture and the return results that we achieve in that agriculture. In fact, if we haven't invested huge billions today to increase production by 10%, then surely someone has to talk about it, so that I don't say and answer for what the situation is like. I think that, above all, this Parliament should have talked more than once about directing funds to agriculture. Because the fact is that agricultural production can't do without incentives, but also draw funds from the budget, give incentives, have no feedback, or have information that we have that the state of production is so that 40% we import should certainly be worried about all of us. And that is why I would still warn about something that the Agricultural Act predicted 8 years ago, and we haven't done anything, or in particular, even more yesterday, that the Directorate for Market and Structural Support has been renamed, i.e. by the adoption of the Law on Payments, we will literally direct this principaly to one long goal again by following the flow of money, and when adopting the Law on Agriculture, it was imagined that this Directorate for Market and Structural Support in Agriculture would regulate and monitor the market for agricultural products, that its role would be to monitor surpluses, monitor the deficits of certain goods on the market, intervention at times equally both the goods deficits and surpluses so that we wouldn't have exactly what happens to us with our agricultural events. Or the prices are twice as high, once the food, so we have the destruction of livestock, and then we have the hyperproduction in livestock, so we have the destruction of the entire breeding herd, no matter what activity it was. And I don't think we've got an answer who's going to end up taking care of who's going to regulate the surpluses on our market and the market what all European countries have and who won't allow neither import food as we allow, nor oscillation prices within ten, that's the maximum country that allows 20% of the cost of oscillation, and I'm going to remind you of corn two years ago, or corn from last year. We have a price of 2.5 kuna so we can have the price now below 50 limes. Therefore, it is something that we must have regulation by the competent ministries, by the state itself, that agriculture itself cannot do. Therefore, if only a small step in the regulation of agriculture, professional integration and quality development of rural space will contribute to this chamber. In any case, we support the establishment of this chamber because we expect it to really help and strengthen entrepreneurship in agriculture and strengthen more efficient business, strengthen the competitiveness of agricultural production and agricultural products, ensure stable income and a more appropriate standard of living that we all expect in the country. We also support membership to be mandatory, to be paid. Because we have the impression that what is coming is less appreciated and besides, we hope that then those who pay and who are members of that chamber will very much begin to seek responsibility in the work of that chamber and their representation. It may be a little unclear about that, it is said that the legal entities do not have to be, or it is their voluntary accession, because voluntary accession and so far they have been required to be members of the Chamber of Commerce, what it will mean if they approach it means to the Chamber of Agriculture, or whether it is then, whether they are deleted from the membership of the Chamber of Commerce. I don't know if it was, I didn't see if I was defined enough. But in any case, I say that we also support the possibility that legal entities choose membership depending on which chamber they prefer. And the club will support, I say, the adoption of the Agricultural Chamber Act already because we expect one protector, a better professional, above all our professions and agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28198	We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28199	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Just for a little while, about this finding that we're directing the paying agency in one direction, where she would just be... A mechanism that would not lead to agricultural policy in that sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we, neither direction nor there, have any possibilities of creation. The paying agency must be compatible with all agencies at European Union level because otherwise, by entering the European Union, we cannot withdraw any kuna funds. So, and procedures, so, the one... etc., and control mechanisms etc., it is all defined, defined and we simply have to implement it, otherwise we cannot draw incentives from the European Agricultural Fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28200	Thank you very much. We ended the debates by clubs and on behalf of the promoter asked State Secretary Josip Kraljičković.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28201	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would refer briefly to the debate so far and help you continue the debate. So why is this law, to whom is it intended? That I'm trying to answer your questions that I heard in the debate. He is the basis for the organisation of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. It does not address the issue of neither imports nor exports nor the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture. But there is also a need for a historical basis for the organisation of agricultural producers. Almost 150 years ago we had a first... in Croatia which was founded as an association of farmers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that, we consider this to be a historic opportunity and a moment for the establishment of an organization of all farmers through this law. Who's gonna pay for that? What is very important here, it says in the law, is that members organise themselves as they wish, as they think best, at state level, through statutes at regional level, or county or more counties, this law does not prescribe it. If they hold that they will have an outpost in every county they choose, we didn't impose on them. The members, the producers, the ones we're talking about, 178 thousand of those members. They are mandatory members, they will have membership fees, they will determine for themselves what it will be and who will pay the membership fee. But that some will pay 0.1 kuna, others will pay differently, but it depends on them to determine the statutes, they determine it. How? It says here in the article the last time it was founded. After the election, where all members participate, a congregation is elected, which is later adopted by the statutes, or members themselves, and what will be the statutes. The agriculture ministry, its role, is there to help in the initial section to establish the chamber and give its opinions and no consent. Because it is normal to need help and the chamber, as well as the ministry in terms of better cooperation but also the powers that the chamber will have in the exercise of public authority. Here she wonders what the powers are. We will now have soon in the Parliament and the Law on aid in agriculture and rural development, and here we will define among others the rural development measures that will be controlled by this chamber and, among other things, direct sales, that means sales on the economy, different sales forms, at the fair, etc. There will be records, that care will take over for it to lead and organise and continue to monitor the chamber. When the word here is that it may have caused and the resistance of the chamber's headquarters. We have just purposely left it in the law so that we do not lose our energy when the chamber is formed, the congregation is then discussed and the energy is lost. And the data suggests that out of 21 counties, there is also the city of Zagreb, Slavonski counties are by the number of members, holdings in agriculture, one in the first place, the next in the sixth place, the next in the 9th, the 10th and 17th place. The total number of members of the future chamber under this law would be 26% of the total number, 26% from the Slavonian County, 26% from the Adriatic Croatia to say so, and 47% from Central Croatia, or the Northwest Croatia. So we can't talk about any concentration, there's no way that all members are in one place in Croatia or just the other. We believe that this proposal is best for all memberships and that it solves best what is provided for by this law, which is that the chamber is established, that it begins to work successfully, effectively. When it comes to this, I listen, well, it's a little bit unusual to me, no matter what they talk about, what laws they have before them or suggestions here, I always listen to the same or the same debate about agriculture, import, export. Well, I think I'll do it again now. Imports from 2008-2007 increased by 1%. As measured in euro by 13%. The coverage of exports of agricultural food products is 54%. Agriculture participates in the overall rural deficit of Croatia only with 7.4% I do not speak, only imports in total imports with 8.6% and exports with 10%. This creates 5% of the population involved in agricultural production, no matter what forms. So that 5% creates almost double the share they already have in imports. They have about 6% share in the gross social product and we're talking about an import that we keep saying is high. We agree. The European Union is the largest importer in the world of agricultural products. This is not why an import arrangement has been declared. Slovenia also has the same relationship as we, even more unfavourable. The measures made by the Croatian government are precisely those measures to help develop agriculture. You mentioned certain measures here. They are today one of the most favourable measures for development, to invest in the development of agriculture in the entire environment that Croatia has, whether east or west. And today it is necessary for farmers to take advantage of it, and this chamber will certainly help. When it comes to investment and support and production, I repeat again to the honourable representatives that there has been a change in the statistical methodology and that we have sent the European Commission statistics that have only measured... and which can be used both officially and on agricultural production and on areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They relate from 2000 to 2007. In that period, what I'm saying again most importantly, there was an increase in used agricultural areas by 3%. There was an increase in orchards and vineyards, surfaces, new 14% planted, olive groves 25%. And what's important for cattle farming to say is that there's been a drop in the number of cows, we all admit it, but at the same time there's been an increase in milk production by 42%. These are the results of the world's successful results. So when we talk about agriculture as the culprit for the situation, we believe that agriculture is a stabiliser of the situation and a potential provider of even better well-being in Croatian society. I hope this argument of mine will help you in further debate with the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28202	Thank you, Secretary of State. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28203	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives of the government. My colleagues and fellow MPs. It is easy to agree that a Agricultural Chamber in Croatia is needed. Only if we've been looking at the history of agriculture for the last 19 years can we say that we're too late to set up a chamber, but unfortunately nothing goes the way it's supposed to be. And the establishment of the chamber has caused a lot of debate in the working bodies, especially in the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and a correction in the basic text of the Proposal for a Law establishing the Agricultural Chamber has been made to intervene that working body, so membership in the chamber is proposed as mandatory. And that completely changes the meaning of the chamber. In fact, it should be pointed out that in Article 43. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that the right to free association is guaranteed in order to protect the breakthroughs of those who join together, to take up social, political and other issues, and we have now found that membership in the chamber is ex-lega, by law, mandatory. And when we determined that, we did not determine in paragraph 1. which is the chamber of its nature. My colleagues and colleagues, those who follow what can be established, what kind of legal person we have, let us answer in Article 2 what is meant under the chamber. The chamber is an independent, independent, professional and business organization. Is that an institution? It's not. Is that a trade company? It's not. Is that the agency? It's not. Is that the Citizens' Association? It's not. What is it, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government, what is a chamber? Because you can't read what a chamber is. If we add that the chambers are also given public authority, the applicant acknowledges that and that is the case in Article 4. The tasks and duties of the chamber, so that the control of rural development measures, keeping records, etc., is a public authority to be given in law. But the proposer does not say who controls the exercise of this public authority. I ask the Proposer to answer the question of who is responsible for overseeing the exercise of the public authority transferred to the Chamber. I don't mind that, though, but to know who's doing what and why. Second, that same Article 4 ultimately states that the chamber may carry out other tasks in accordance with its Statute. Okay, if the chamber can perform other tasks in accordance with the statutes, it means that they will decide for themselves what jobs they will not, what they will expand, the team is no longer foreseen that neither the Parliament nor the government gives consent to the statutes. Now something about mandatory and optional membership in the chamber. In fact, Article 10 of the basic text, i.e. Article 9, and it is not as far as I see it in the amendments, says that the members of the chamber are achieving their interests indirectly through voluntary association. And Article 2 is shared on mandatory and voluntary membership. This should be amended if this amendment remains with the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system. But that's not all. Article 26 also speaks of two types of members, as stated in paragraph 2. will establish a list of mandatory members of the chamber and enroll voluntary members of the chamber in accordance with Article 10. So it must be changed if we vote on a text that is mutually consistent. But that's not all, either. In Article 15, the last Administrative Board shall decide on the reception and termination of members in the Chamber. If the membership in the chamber is ex-legislative, so by law, and you know who that applies to, then what will be decided by the Management Board on the admission of members to the chamber. Then which is now the task and what are these members who are enrolled by decision of the board of directors. So they're not ex-legis, they're not under the law, they're not under the Statute, they're under the discretion of the board of directors. Then to the chamber, which is fine, a court of honor is being set up in the chamber for the members of the chamber. But in the chamber also works permanent arbitration, and please, gentlemen, that permanent arbitration should settle disputes between the chamber members and those outside the chamber. So how can this chamber be imposed so that it can decide that its arbitration will resolve disputes with the members of the chamber and those outside the chamber. So arbitration can be for members of the chamber, and everything else is out of the will of the chamber itself. If we look at something related to the independence of the chamber, because I assume it's a legal person association, natural and legal persons who make their interests come true through the operation of the chamber. I don't mind that, but that's good, I support it. But looking at Article 23, as proposed here, says the annual work programme and the annual financial plan referred to in Article 14, so the chamber is adopted with the previous opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Development. With this kind of manipulation, this chamber becomes a para-state body, as the minister, the Ministry of Agriculture, will decide on a work programme, because it gives prior consent. And when it comes to membership fees, Article 24 provides for membership fees, and the law, therefore, is mandatory. But the funds can be channelled from their own activity. I don't mind again, and now I'd like to pray for what's under the second sentence of my second thoughts, that is. The Statute of the Chamber may also prescribe a mandatory way of developing the payment of the chamber contribution. If we form the chamber as a para-state body, and by law we allow the chamber to impose another tax on the members of the chamber then forgive, but then the chamber becomes really something that is not in office to say the free will of the members and the agriculture rather than become in office of the state, or ministry. And finally let me say, if it all stays like this then yesterday I propose to pass a law on the establishment of a life support centre for peasant farming households. Because after the Golf Act, where the state says golf courses are of particular interest and the Agricultural Land Act that so far, peasant agricultural production will come under a difficult position in the Republic of Croatia. We're going to turn into agrobusinessland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28204	Thank you very much. It is next to the individual debate by representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28205	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the light of the final proposal for a law on Croatia, the proposer shall state as a reason why the chamber is established, among other things, the rapid development of Croatian agriculture and the adaptation of agricultural holdings to market conditions, the inclusion of the main holders of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, which would, above all, be family farms in that institution, which would then be assisted as a relevant partner in the creation of measures of agricultural policy and development programmes and their effective implementation. The aim of the chamber is, inter alia, to create institutional support necessary to raise the competitiveness of agricultural producers and their products on the European market, and to develop production to ensure stable income for farmers. The establishment of the chamber is certainly necessary and is also required by most agricultural associations. However, assessing the objectives set wants to create an impression that the chamber will solve most of the problems facing the Croatian farmer today. Will the chamber solve the problem of lagging incentives that amount to about 1.2 billion kuna? When support will be paid for capital investments that stand as a requirement for more than 180 days. How to survive those agricultural producers who bought wheat at 1.50 kuna per kilogram in 2008, and now the market price is 1.08 per kilogram. The sales prices of wheat in 12 months 2008 are 28% lower compared to the harvest price, and the average price of wheat fell by 44% compared to 12 months in 2007. What happened in 2008 to the price of corn? The purchase price of €0.62 per kilogram, and an incentive of €2250 per hectare, are not sufficient to cover the cost of production. The question is, what kind of state policy is this? The problem has been caused by imports of cheaper corn from Hungary with 8% customs, which has caused major damage to domestic producers. Why wasn't that customs bigger? It is seen from the above that there is no production plan in our country, the peasant is left to himself. By importing everything and destroying everything domestic agriculture and favouring certain stakeholders. And that import is really growing enough says the data that I'm going to indicate. In food, we record an increase in imports in all items. For example, imports of cereals and cereal products are higher by 44.4%. That's how we destroy domestic production. For our terms, we have extremely high prices of artificial fertilisers, fuels and silicon goods, which is why no branch of agriculture stands well, and for peasants really hard times come. I still have to mention the crime that happens around the availability and distribution of agricultural land where the country gets similars and those whose agriculture is not at all a basic occupation. Such distributions in Virovitica-Podravska County from which there were many, and I believe in other parts of Croatia. And so the question arises whether this chamber that we are discussing today will be able to solve at least one part of the problem in the country, is it perhaps too much to be expected from that chamber? What, then, is the purpose of the existence of advisory services in districts financed from the state budget? Shouldn't those services that already exist be reorganized? Shouldn't they have been shaken a little bit so that they could do the work for which they were founded? How many of these services justified their existence? I would also refer to the final draft of the law, namely certain provisions of the law. The proposed text shows that most of the issues in the law itself remain unresolved and should be settled through the Chamber's statutes. We see the possibility of the statutes being prescribed and the payment of the chamber's contribution. It is clear, and given the sources of funding that the obligation to pay for this contribution will surely be introduced. That means a new load for the peasants. Furthermore, membership in the chamber is mandatory, and we know that farmers who are craftsmen and who under this law must be members of the chamber already members of the Chamber of crafts and pay contributions to the Chamber of crafts. Does that mean paying two contributions? The law also allows voluntary members of the chamber to be legal persons, companies. Shouldn't big tailoring again, i.e. have an impact on the agricultural policy at the expense of small agricultural producers, which is why this chamber is actually set up. The Statute will also determine the way in which the establishment, establishment, jobs and tasks will be established for the area of one or more units of the regional self-government. Is it not clear from this how specific the outpost will be? What does this mean for Slavonia, for five Slavonian counties where it is known, the population is mainly engaged in agricultural production? Furthermore, the question arises: Shouldn't the headquarters of the chamber be in one of the Slavonian cities? Why should this chamber seat be in Zagreb? And finally, in addition to all the institutions that should take care of agriculture, and there are indeed many, primarily starting from the resolution ministry to agencies, chambers and advisory services, I have to say that the situation in agriculture today in Croatia is extremely bad. Here, this Chamber of Agriculture is also established, but will it justify its existence, or will it just be used to entangle similar personnel? Time will tell the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28206	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Agent Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28207	Well, you've noticed that it's really good for the chamber membership to be binding, but a chamber like any chamber should be then in the service of the members themselves, and in no case should there be any prosthetics for bad state policy, not in this, not in any sector. But exactly, that correcter because eventually, it will also be financed from the membership fee of its members, i.e. agricultural producers. And if we had an earlier chamber, I'm deeply convinced that what happened wouldn't have happened. Namely, the agricultural land in the Golf Act can be renamed. Therefore, clean agricultural land in the golf course and thus opening up the possibility for foreign golf investors to become owners of agricultural land, which is explicitly prohibited during this transitional period. Therefore, it is not true that foreigners are prevented from buying agricultural land, unfortunately when they appear as golf investors then they can do so and yet the state gives them a special benefit not to pay for the change in such a single land.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28208	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's time for the debate, interlocutor Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28209	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The promoter also wrote in an oral address to the parliament that the government is proposing the establishment of an agricultural chamber to help family farms and farmers craftsmen work easier, make more money and do better business. What is this chamber supposed to do, so what is the function of the chamber under this law? To promote interests, to coordinate the interests of members, to monitor the situation in agriculture, to give initiatives and expert opinions, to consider prices, to work with educational organisations, to promote the interests of members abroad, to work with foreign agricultural chambers, to prepare and organise agricultural fairs, to organise professional training, to advise, to collect and process data, to award recognitions, to manage the database, to conduct other tasks, and when you put it into one bigger, it is about one larger MPK 7, 20, 30. But there's something particularly interesting, he says, coordinating the activities of agricultural associations. Associations are citizens' associations. So, the proposaler's hidden intention is to make the chamber a roof organisation of agricultural associations. Or not? What kind of connections, and I'll say that later, one chamber which membership is mandatory... /The speaker is off, so it's back on./... getting a co-ordinated function of voluntary associations of citizens of this country. Normally, the secret is that the chamber gets public authority in the control of rural development measures and keeping records of direct sales on family farms. These two fine powers are given precisely in the function of the operational implementation of the proposed Article 10 on mandatory membership. So the law provides that natural persons, or holders of family farms, as well as natural persons who deal with agriculture as craftsmen, must be members of this chamber. There is also a provision in the law that we empower the congregation to prescribe membership and even introduce a chamber contribution. I found in the explanation and the fact that in Croatia, the natural persons involved in agriculture are about 172 thousand of them, and if the congregation of that chamber prescribes a membership fee of only 100 kuna per year, it is about 17 million kuna, slightly more than 17 million kuna budgets for a dozen probably party people who will figure out as a chamber in service and help agricultural producers. But interestingly, it is these months in Croatia that the debate on what to do with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, abolish mandatory membership or reduce the over-increasing contributions that are there. What to do with the Croatian Chamber of crafts, reduce contributions or abolish mandatory membership because the businessmen themselves claim that their obligations to these chambers made by the state are too large and that the benefits are no or too small. And so, when one part of the economy is considering discharging the economy from maritime contributions, we have a proposal for a law to invent another chamber with a mandatory membership of 180 thousand citizens of this country as a new burden, not only of membership but also of a chamber contribution. And what it looks like to you in practice when a state forces someone to join a chamber is the next example. An entrepreneur who tried to participate in a job contest these days had to submit a confirmation that there was no tax debt. And he couldn't get that confirmation because he owed the chamber an economic debt of thousands of kuna membership fees. Therefore, the Member State's contribution to the chamber was equal to the tax debt. And all those who owe membership to a crafts or economic chamber or mined and with the possibility of competing in competitions that the state is calling. This is now also expected by family farms. For the 100 kuna debt if such a membership fee will not be able to participate as bidders of its products when on the other hand such a condition is because it will not be able to obtain confirmation that they do not owe taxes because the Member State treats the membership as a tax debt in the chamber. This is the second effect and a very large contribution to helping agricultural families. How can we miss a law that states that mandatory membership pays membership fees and that a smaller group of them in the congregation can introduce a chamber contribution, no matter how much or by any standard, or by no means claiming that it will benefit farmers in this country? If a chamber of such shape and content can be useful for those involved in agriculture, then it must be voluntary. The membership in it must be voluntary. And if it is successful, if it benefits members, if citizens and farmers feel that they benefit from something they will voluntarily enter that membership, finance membership and the well-being they receive. Forced membership in one chamber was not good, did not produce results, and I remind you of two, three months of membership contributions, chamber contributions both in the Chamber of Commerce and in the Chamber of Commerce is a serious topic that everyone is dealing with, instead of the moves to unburden them, introduce a new one. And I believe that by the end of this term, you will come with a bill to which all holders of family holdings other than members of the Agricultural Chamber must be a member of at least one of the ruling parties, preferably the HSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28210	We have one replica. Representative Dragutin Bodakoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28211	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Lesar, you said the membership issue as one of the moments in the establishment of this chamber, or what I think is more important is that this other membership fee certainly burdens the competitiveness of our agriculture. What does that mean? So each hectare or each throat will be burdened with that production from that hectare or the production of kilograms in one animal, that it will be burdened with another supplement or that we will certainly be less competitive in that way. That is why what is important and what should be done by the ministry certainly to see where these obligations can be reduced and this competitiveness to increase our agriculture. Because that's what other industries and other industries in Croatia are looking for today. So, especially when our products are often not competitive precisely because of this price, because of expensive fuel, because of fertilisers, because of seeds, etc. the obligations resulting from payment of another membership fee and the obligation already exists according to some other associations normally to collect this product and reduce the competitiveness of our agriculture and the entry into the European Community is at the door. So I don't know how we'll be able to deal with their competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28212	The answer to the replica is Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28213	You have warned a good colleague that this is about one additional burden, with those who deal in agriculture as a craftsman already being bound by the payment of the chamber's contribution to the Chamber of Commerce. Family farms will have to be members of this chamber but if constantly, let it be just that and 100 kuna, though it will be safe more. I repeat, all those who will want to participate in public procurement where it is on the other side of the country. For example, the family agricultural economy is reporting for the supply of agricultural products in the hospital, home of pensioners. In order to have conditions of competition in the offer, it will have to give confirmation that there are no tax debts and, according to the debt, a member debt to any chamber of state treats it as a tax debt and cannot win those certificates, it will fall out of competition because one such debt I would say with an even blackmailing approach it will influence all before paying membership contributions rather than paying out, for example, workers who work for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28214	Thank you very much. The word for debate is represented by Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28215	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Lesar, you're arguing as if the state had imposed what amount the members of the chamber would pay. That's not true. So, farmers themselves will agree on what amount they will be. Croatian agriculture is burdened with heavy heritage and changes that represent restrictions in its further development such as unfavourable agrarian structure, inadequate education of farmers, underdeveloped service infrastructure, insufficient organisation of the literal disappearance of villages and entire villages. In economic terms, the main objective is for agriculture to become economically healthy, perspective and above all human interest, and for the central economic activity of rural areas. Agriculture should be not only a source of employment for farmers and their families, but also a source of many small or larger processing activities in the rural area. It is a source of both production and service crafts, tourism creating a very diverse production structure. Therefore, in order to promote the value of conservation and promotion of agriculture, rural space in the overall social economic development of the Republic of Croatia. It is important to establish the support that will be in the role of protecting the protection of interest, the main holders of and production. It is now a chamber of institutions that should play that role. In the process of joining the Republic of Croatia, the issue of establishing a Croatian agricultural chamber as an institution that would represent the professional interests of agricultural producers who, as a relevant partner, would help to create agricultural policy measures and their effective... has become active again. There are a lot of reasons why we need to support this law, and I'm going to point out some. The agricultural chamber does not necessarily form the organisation of our farmers who do not have a single representative at the moment, and in talks with the Government perform dividedly in front of individual associations, cooperatives or their alliances. The Chamber should represent the common interests of all farmers, the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia will facilitate negotiations with the agricultural sector, as it will have one relevant partner for the counterpart. Because the credibility of the chamber as a relevant partner in representing the interest of farmers will be based on previous elections to be held throughout the country and in all counties. The Chamber must be recognised and recognised as an associate and equal partner to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Resistant Ministry in solving the problems encountered in the agricultural sector. When establishing measures for agricultural policy and development programmes in agriculture and rural development, the competent ministries should consult with the chamber, in particular with regard to the techniques of their implementation. The chamber should be an institution that will enable members to freely express the interests of the problem and exchange views. Develop common ideas and interests of the entire agricultural sector or individual branches and make decisions in a democratic way. The ideas and initiatives of activities in agricultural economies will be promoted, continued vocational education and timely information of its members on innovation in the sector will be ensured. The Chamber should gather the largest group of agricultural holdings as the backbone of the development of agriculture. These are natural persons enrolled in the register of agricultural holdings as a family holding but also as crafts. In the Republic of Croatia, there is no tradition of agricultural craftsmanship in the way that craftsmen are gathered in sectoral companies through which they make their interests known. The chamber system in most Central European countries of the European Union is organised by border. This has proved to be the most effective way of representing the interests of business operators operating in a sector. I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28216	Thank you very much. It's time for the debate, Agent Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28217	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This proposal of the Agricultural Chamber Act is absolutely welcome and I support it. However, I must remind myself that at certain times dissatisfaction was precisely agricultural producers and during protests that could organise one of the requirements that referred to the Government there was also the establishment of the Agricultural Chamber. I'm afraid, therefore, that's unfortunately coming in a certain way too late. It was supposed to be sooner, but it's here. However, when we talk about agriculture as an economic activity and a state in particular in the part of Croatia in which the economic branch is expressed, I also have to say a few statistics that are very often not seen in the Croatian public. Namely, from the county that comes to Osijek-Baranja County, unemployment is 21% for the last year of 2008. It was deployed within the county in such a way that the cities range from 11% to 14%, and at the municipal level it ranges from 30% to 92% in one municipality. So if we compare the level of unemployment in cities and at the municipal level, then we come up with an amazing parameter that exactly in Slavonic villages unemployment is extremely high. Therefore, this bill is absolutely welcome, but we must be aware that they will not solve all the problems in agriculture that exist. It is precisely because of this unemployment that speaks of the situation in Croatian agriculture that it is necessary to create a special programme for the recovery of the Slavonian village, the entire Croatian village and special incentives for the development of agriculture to bring the inhabitants of our village to the same level as the inhabitants of the cities when it comes to their economic perspective. I also support the proposal that the headquarters of this Chamber of Agriculture be where there are the most registered family farms. It is by chance the Osijek-Baranja County, but thus the Government of the Republic of Croatia would show that it is also inclined to implement a certain decentralisation of the state, that it does not have to be all in Zagreb and that we also show through this that we can also influence unemployment where it is the largest and where different state support systems should also encourage employment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28218	Thank you very much. It is up to the debate that Sima Djurdjevic is representing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28219	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna cut my debate short, and there's a vote ahead of us, and I believe a long way home. I took another approach, which is that after reading 1st, I photocopied the material and met with the farmers' associations, with those who are in... with those who are in the VAT system, with associations of livestock farmers, fruit growers and that I do not now count. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I've been looking in the field, ladies and gentlemen, you're working on this property, in the field, in the vineyards, please be kind and tell me what you think of setting up a agricultural chamber. I can also tell them here that the vast majority supports the establishment of a agricultural chamber and that some see it skeptically. Skeptically, they look at those, unfortunately, those who process, not all cannot say, large areas of agricultural land, and small farmers who in Croatia own this agricultural land more than 2/3. When they are explained in a good and quality way what brings them into the chamber, they are for the establishment of the agricultural chamber. The establishment of the chamber is, by me and by them, institutional support for the development of agriculture and education of farmers in the region, which contributes to raising the competitiveness of agricultural producers and their products on the harsh European market. In order to achieve the stated objective, I also see the advisory role of the chamber with existing state institutions such as the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory, the Croatian cattle centre and the Croatian Forest Advisory Service. I would like to say a very short word about Article 18(4), so the farmers with whom I made the conversation are also for the agricultural chamber to move to that Croatian region where the horror of this land is being processed and processed. And they see the agricultural chamber headquarters in Zagreb as a transitional solution. Respecting Croatia's regional development, which also established the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. I believe that mandatory membership must be done by all owners of agricultural land, as I said in Croatia about 2/3. I see with this structure that the centre of the Croatian agricultural chamber represents the chamber towards the state and state bodies. Slavonia as the most agricultural region thus gets the basis for new and better development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28220	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Damir Caine's turn. He's gone. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I spoke on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I have a need in an individual debate. Namely, after my debate on behalf of the club through the institution of the wrong allegations, they had the need to react to both counterpart Petir and co-worker Kovacevic and I totally agree with what they said. I couldn't agree more. I'm glad, I'm glad we have our own development policy, that it no longer depends on Vienna, Budapest, Belgrade, but my question is again how we have government policy when we talk about agriculture. How effective is it? Is this government policy effective in the way that we came with imports of two billion and 600 million euros, is it effective when we lose 20,000 jobs annually in the difference between imports and exports? Mr. Secretary of State wonders why, when we talk about the Agricultural Chamber Act, we're discussing the state of agriculture. But Mr. Secretary of State, we have no other chance, give us a green report, make your commitment to the Croatian Parliament. Tell the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian people what our situation in agriculture is. I just don't want to believe in something that's good when we see it's not good. I know what my Croatian Zagorje was like 40 years ago, 30 years ago, 20 years ago, and I know what it's like today. And it's not true, and it's trying through the law, it's an explanation of the need for law enforcement, one of the reasons for the need to introduce a law on agricultural land trying to say that our people don't want to work, our people don't want to, they won't work. So let's go, then let's give their country through the prescribed procedure, let's give their land to those who will. But believe me, our people want to work, but the key question is whether they're worth doing. And now we come to that main one, something that we need to resolve, and I think that Parliament, that this Parliament, exactly where we have to talk about it, is whether we need to or whether we are going, whether we want to go industrialise our agriculture or whether we want to raise small agricultural economies. Looking at economic logic, each of us is clear that more production reduces the impact of fixed costs, giving a competitive price. It's clear to each and every one of us. But do we understand why our farms are getting more and more abandoned from day to day, whether we understand why and why we have an increasing and larger amount of agricultural land unprocessed. I recommend to each of my fellow MPs, and I believe they've all read that text. If not, go to painful agropoliticals, agropoliticalblog.com. or, I'm not sure, there's a very interesting text about the collapse of cattle production in this country, a very interesting text, an argumentative text that even got the name forbidden. It's enough to read that text. Reading and reading that text will make it clear to everyone what happened to this country and why the cattle production has broken down, why and why. The fact is that in 2004, we brought in the Operational Programme for the Development of Beef, that's correct. We planned to increase the competitiveness of domestic production, create a more favourable position when entering the European Union, fully meet the domestic needs of milk and meat. Two and a half billion were scheduled for construction of 7,000 farms, large farms. In 2008, we have 190, not 7,000, but 190, I'm talking about the number recorded in the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. What a shame, making new farms. Credits were all used at 14%. The share of these new farms, modernized farms in the total supply of milk is only 17%. Still 83% are small economies. So these are elements to be talked about, not in general, but specifically on the basis of arguments, based on the real state. And what you're going to make beautiful is a real situation when it's really critical, when it's not good. In the area of the Varazdin County, I have already mentioned this, and I will mention it again, because this is the data we have to mention from day to day, in 2002, when the support was abolished, when the support was introduced, which was tied to the number of cattle, means those holdings that had one cattle, two cattle, suspended support. There were 17,000 cattle, today there are 7 grand. Why? These people don't want to work. Varazdin County is one of the few counties where the unit of local administration three years ago, I was a member of that county headship and I am particularly proud of many of the projects that we have then launched. One of the few is the county that introduced primary schools to the mandatory use of milk and dairy products in this country. Mandatory use, repeat. What milk? The milk produced in Varazdin County. With all these conditions laid down by one large dairy producer, we managed to get a few small producers who had mini milkers involved the whole project. We've made a double use of it. We bought 20 lactose because lactose was a problem why and why people can't get those small quantities of milk they produce, they can't fit into one place and put it into distribution. One lactose that costs 250 kuna, as a result, and you secretary of state, you know, I'm sure you have that information, and, consequently, he created the position that we have activated 5 million kunas from those 250 thousand kunas. How much milk you get with that lactose, and otherwise you wouldn't, because for our big manufacturer these are too small quantities, it's not worth driving. So there's a whole series of measures, and I think we all need to talk about it first, I'm sure there's something to say. If we want to be honest, first of all with Croatian agriculture, first of all to agricultural producers, then we need to speak openly and clearly. Import. We have the possibility in the Law on Trade, there is this possibility, if there are excessive quantities of imports that violate one of our economic branches, we have the right to seek protection. And a few years ago, the Croat cattleman launched the procedure, but the government's support was gone. 'Come on then there was another government, other people were running that ministry, but I'm asking these new people in the new ministry now, why and why not proceed with this action further? Is someone stopping us? I have here before me, yesterday the Italian Parliament banned French butter on a blog. The Italians have strength, especially at this time of crisis. However, we still don't know if we have a crisis, we have a recession, we don't have where we are, we are, so maybe that's why we don't react. But the Italians reacted. Why aren't we responding? In any case, we all agree, the Agricultural Chamber with all those anomalies, all those remarks we heard today during the debate, we definitely agree, is possible one of the instruments for the development and stabilisation of agricultural production. We agree. But I repeat again, it is not the one who will solve this, it will address the systematic measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, one far different responsibility towards agricultural production... Agricultural production's been around all these years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28222	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would, in effect, correct Mr. Korajevic's incorrect allegations that he was just in the strength of the breakdown of bovine production in the Republic of Croatia. So if we're talking about a breakdown, then we can talk about wartime. At the time, it was indeed a breakdown of cattle production due to the devastation of war activities, but also because of the occupation of the territory and the very one on which the production was the largest. And in order to deny this incorrect assumption, I will say that only in the last two to three years has more than 800 new dairy farms that meet all the conditions of veterinary health, technology, etc. modelled by the European Union and increased milk production by over 100 million litres. Therefore, I would ask you not to deceive the public as you just did when you corrected my incorrect quote and misread the articles of the law. You said consent should be given, however, the ministry does not give consent to any document of the chamber, but only the previous opinion. It's a difference like heaven and earth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28224	Thank you very much. And five minutes on behalf of the HNS club, final word, Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28225	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I understand your anxiety, I realize that Friday, I realize that Friday and I understand your nervousness, but I just don't want to understand and I won't understand your reaction when I talk about agricultural production, when we're discussing the state of agriculture, although not because we haven't had a chance yet, because this Parliament hasn't had a chance since 2002, which is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that through a green report, the information we've received from the state of agriculture. We haven't had that chance since 2002. By 2003, the agriculture minister was Minister Pankretic and was again Minister Pankretic. Comrades and colleagues ruling, we in opposition have no ability to force the government to respect its obligation, but you do. Therefore, I simply don’t understand why and why we don’t have a chance to discuss matters that are responsible and serious. I have one document that every one of you can have because it's being taken on the website. The title of the document is "Croatian agricultural breakdown due to food imports". The 2006 document. I believe Mr. Secretary of State that you were one of the authors of that document, I assume from your party. What's the difference in 2006 and what's the difference today? And finally, the Croatian People's Party supports the Proposal for a Law establishing a Agricultural Chamber. With all the arguments we gave on behalf of the club and in the first reading, today on behalf of the club, individually and through this final part. First of all, as one of the possible solutions to stabilising agricultural production, as one of the possible solutions in daily, literally the naked struggle for the existence of all our own, and especially small agricultural producers. I'm not talking about those 220 that are the biggest in the incentives, the paid incentives, I'm talking about those who are at the beginning and those who don't have the right to incentives, and they should get it. I believe that in the Croatian Parliament we will be given the opportunity and that the Government will fulfil its obligation, which is to discuss the overall state of agriculture based on a green report, based on the arguments. Only if the arguments are such that the government is afraid to go to the Croatian public with such arguments. I hope so. And specifically, when we talk about this law, the Croatian People's Party club supports it, but with one suspicion that such a positive legal initiative is not adequately followed and other measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia primarily for improving the village and improving the small agricultural producers that we all keep mentioning, and in what state, what situation, they know best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28226	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28227	Well, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of colleagues, who said that we, ruling from HDZ, were showing some kind of anxiety. It's not about any anxiety, it's just that we're against someone here in this House and in front of the Croatian public because of this TV broadcast showing some false care for agriculture. Because showing true care for the state of Croatian agriculture would mean at least reading the law if the debate was taken three times already, and his colleague Kovacevic showed him that he had not even read the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28228	Thank you. We don't know if he read it or not. Conclusion on this agenda point on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Josip Kraljičković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28229	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Well, there are a few sentences to be said. Croatian cattle production is not about to break. The data we have, I'll repeat it. In 2000, we had 426 thousand cattle, 2007. 467 thousand cattle. Increase by 10% of the total number of cattle. Milk production from 605 million kuna has increased to 859 million kuna, kilograms, or 40 percent. We can't talk about it. Secondly, the example of the Varazdin County and other counties work similarly and what is even more important to say that during this short period of time, the Croatian government has made so many legal bases, but has created the best assumptions for investing in agriculture so far. All these measures at local level, the regional level are much less than state measures. It has never been possible to regain investment in farming of 50% of total investments. Never before. This can also be done today for these capital assets that we talked about today. What is still worth pointing out, I hold that this law today will enter history as in 1841 when Croatian-Slovenian economic society was founded, the first such society in times of crisis brought together by those who will try to solve the problems of agriculture in today's Croatia. When it comes to this legislative proposal, every article we have passed with our associations and farmers, for each article we have received support so that no special and additional explanation is necessary and I hold that it is, I repeat, a good basis for a faster and better solution to the overall problems in Croatian society, including agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28230	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28231	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I want to correct Mr. Secretary of State who claims that Croatian cattle production has not been broken. The very fact that last year we imported 128 thousand pieces of cattle, 128 thousand, I repeat, doesn't justify the fact that we have an increase in milk, that's correct. However, we do not have meat production, and I have already mentioned in my debate that our pig column is no longer a Zemun, but the Ministry of Agriculture led it to Sofia, 764 thousand pieces of pigs we imported last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28232	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide later. The final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber was second reading, P.Z. No. 171 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Representative Zoran Vinkovic, Joint Clubs of the Representatives of the HSS and HDZ. I would like to ask the motionant's representative to show his views on the proposed amendments by State Secretary Josip Kraljičković to the amendment of Representative Zoran Vinkovic in Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28234	It's unacceptable. 178 thousand economies were enrolled in the Agricultural Economy Register, 47% of which are located in central Croatia, 27% in Slavonia, and 26% in Adriatic Croatia. We believe that for the successful start of work of the agency or chamber is the best seat of the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28235	Thank you. There is no Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, so I am putting on this amendment that the government does not accept to vote. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving on to the amendments to the clubs of HSS and HDZ representatives. 1 Amendment 1 to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28236	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28237	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 2 to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28238	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28239	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 3 to Article 18
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28240	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28241	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. I Amendment 4 to Article 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28242	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28243	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And we have amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28244	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28245	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 10 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28246	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28247	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3rd Amendment to Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28248	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28249	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Thank you very much. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority, 94 votes in favour, 12 abstentions and 3 against, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of this session - Proposal for a conclusion in connection with the Border Agreement with the Republic of Slovenia, Proposers: Representative Clubs and Mr Independent Representative Lesar. When the proposal for a conclusion is read, the clubs that supported this will be listed. Any objections to including this point in the agenda? If there is no point in the agenda, we vote by raising our hands. Who's to put this point in the agenda? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There isn't. Unanimity accepted by 115 votes in favour, nothing against. We're going right to this point. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Maria Zubovic, to read the proposal for conclusions that are in line with the clubs of MPs and, as I told the independent representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28251	Thank you very much. Mr. President. This conclusion is drawn up with an agreement between HDZ, SDP, HNS, IDS, HSS, SDS, HSS, HSS, HSS, HSS, HSP, National Minority Club and Independent Representative Mr Dragutin Lesar. Starting with the fundamental commitment of the Republic of Croatia to open issues with neighbouring countries to address issues in the European spirit and spirit of good neighbourly relations, seeking to find an acceptable solution based on international law, confirming its attachment to the rule of law as one of the fundamental principles of the European Union and the North Atlantic Union, starting with the European Union's negotiating framework for the Republic of Croatia, which refers to means of peaceful dispute settlement, including before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, recalling the fact that the Republic of Croatia has supported the Republic of Slovenia to join the European Union and the North Atlantic alliance with the same border between the two countries as it is today. The Croatian Parliament concludes with the border dispute with the Republic of Slovenia: "The Croatian Parliament disagrees with the content of the conclusion on the protection of Slovenian state interests in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the North Atlantic Agreement adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 18 February 2009. The Croatian Parliament considers that the most representative and legislative body of the Republic of Slovenia has shown its intention to prejudge the border on the left bank of the river Dragonja and on the left bank of the Mura River area, which on 25 June 1991 was indisputable under the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and the area of the entire sea area in the Savudrija vala, the Piran Bay, which was not subject to exclusive jurisdiction on 25 June 1991, and had a territorial contact with the open sea. The Croatian Parliament rejects such an attempt to prejudge the state border. The Croatian Parliament considers the conclusion adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 18 February 2009 to be a precedent in the history of receiving new members of the North Atlantic Union as well as the European Union which may have adverse consequences in future enlargement procedures or the adoption of new Member States. The Croatian Parliament considers the latest developments to confirm once again that the election of the International Court of Justice in The Hague is the highest judicial body in the United Nations's best choice for a peaceful settlement of disputes on the distinction. The Croatian Parliament calls on the Republic of Slovenia to honour the agreement of the two Prime Ministers in Bled in 2007 to resolve the open border issue before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The Croatian Parliament calls on the Republic of Slovenia to enable, on behalf of the friendship and good neighbourly relations between the two peoples of the common European future and the future alliance in the North Atlantic Alliance, to resolve an open border issue in the European spirit of rule of law by respecting the international legal order and giving confidence to the judicial body of the United Nations.". This conclusion is published in the People's Newspaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-20-0.u28252	Thank you. The clubs agreed to adopt this conclusion without debate. So, I'm putting on a proposal that we heard and that you have on the benches to vote on. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. Who is, who isn't or is abstention? Please make sure he reacts to this. What's the score? I'm making a point. Please. The lady says it didn't work. You agree to do it again? Please, let's get on with it and vote again. The result? I find the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 119 votes accepted the proposal for a conclusion in connection with the border dispute with the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
