ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25814	Mr. President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, fellow parliamentary representatives. As you know, and before I begin to explain my motives and what drove me to propose a bill like this, I would ask you today to concentrate exclusively on this bill. I would hate for this debate to go to some groundless bickering ideologically, and I have seen it here unfortunately in the Parliament that it always ends here on Ustashas and Partisans. I would ask you only today to concentrate and talk about the bill with arguments for and against and to talk about people today, about heroes who absolutely for this Croatian state did the best they could, and they ended up dead. As you know, I've received a negative opinion from the government on this bill, as we say, I've got a leg or a two, and that's fine, the government has its own opinion and opinion. I think the problem is the procedure already why we are now discussing something that the government has already delivered its opinion several months ago. I think that the government should first decide on the basis of, wait for Parliament and for us parliamentary deputies to discuss any idea, initiative, no matter which side it is on, and only on that basis to bring some opinion, a view on whether it is good or not. Today, I feel like Don Quihote is going to be chasing something he knows in advance that won't fall. Which motivated me to propose this Law supplementing the Law on Fines and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, exclusively for the dead members of the Croatian Army. The Republic of Croatia has voted its independence in the Homeland War from 1991 to 1995. A lot of young boys and girls involved defending all their ends without saving themselves. Many have lost their homes, no body parts, no life. In this cruel struggle against life and death, life has laid down about 14,000 people. About 1,100 people are still missing. We've got more than 36,000 people down. The material damage in terms of direct and indirect damage is enormous. A third of the Republic of Croatia was occupied. In the middle of 1991, the Croatian army managed to stop the enemy on all front lines, given its capabilities, both material and human, exercise. During the coming years, the Croatian Army is conducting a series of liberating operations to finally control most of the occupied territory in 1995. Who did this? Who defended the Republic of Croatia? Who defended Vukovar? Who defended Osijek? Who defended the Vinkovci? Who defended Sisak? Who defended the Carlovite? Miss? Who defended Zadar? Sibenik? Who defended Sinj? Who defended Dubrovnik? Who in the five-year war fought to destroy enemy planes, tanks, transporters? In Vukovar alone, several hundred armored transporters and tanks were destroyed. Who chased the bunkers and trenches by breaking the first line? Who went into the hostile background doing diversions? Who pulled the dead and wounded comrades? Who freed the occupied ends by operations of Maslenica, Flash, Storm? The warriors, the firemen, the little people, the ones I'm going to talk about in this House. Not politicians, not parliamentarians, not those who are rich and rich in blood. Not just the warriors of the Croatian Army. Those who died and those who remained alive. I received consent and support for this proposal from the families of the dead and from the Association of the Families of the Dead. I've received dozens of letters of support only from the family of dead defenders. I wouldn't want you to take this in any way as politicizing, collecting cheap political points. Fellow MPs, please understand, I ask for your support. We decide here, you decide, you are parliamentary representatives chosen by the people. I know and you know that the Republic of Croatia has medals for courage called "Domagoj" and "Subic" and that they are assigned. But I know, and you know that it's a medal worn by some people who've never been to the battlefield, who've never felt the suffering of war, who've never felt death. I wonder how many dead members of the Croatian Army have been awarded the "Domagoj", the "Shubić" medal? The prominent members of the Croatian Army were awarded the title "Petra Zrinski" and "Frana Krsta Frankopana", but it is a civilian military medal that is not given for courage and heroism but for all the dead, both civilians and soldiers. And that's the point. My idea is to form a new medal that would be called "the hero of the Homeland War", "the hero of the Homeland War", all the same, and it would be awarded exclusively to the dead members of the Croatian Army who have been repeated, so they have repeatedly committed heroic acts and died as heroes. I believe that these people, the most responsible for the creation of the Republic of Croatia, the people who have allowed us to sit here have the full right to their prominent place in the history of the Republic of Croatia. These people have been morally vertical about our age. We have to learn about them in schools. Where are they today and if we have them, and they are the foundation of the newly created state of our country of Croatia. This proposal of mine doesn't have to be final. This is just a bill of law. He's not the best, he's not the smartest. I wish others had been involved in making a bill that would surely be better and more comprehensive at that time. Some say it's too late to have divisions, some new divisions, I don't think. Why? Because doing fair is never too late. Because today, when we have this much time away from the Homeland War, we can make sober heads and make decisions that are best for all of us. That old saying says good horses all arrive. I ask the Government, I ask representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, even though they have refused this initiative to change their mind. I therefore propose that this be a project for all of us, a project of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Parliament, regardless of the parties, regardless of the policy, please support this idea and ask for consensus. In a material sense, this new medal wouldn't cost much. A little. In a moral sense, we'd get a lot. Very much so. We'd get heroes of war, heroes we unfortunately don't have today. And all of us here who were in the Croatian Army know about these people. We commanded them. Under our command, they left and never came back. Under our command were heroic acts on the front lines of the battlefield across the Republic of Croatia. So now I'm going to say it here. We have here my fellow parliamentary representative Djakic, who with his battle in one operation when two Guard brigades couldn't break the line, he and his battleship 17km literally did it in one day where a lot of people died and those are certainly heroes of the Homeland War. Here's a few dead heroes we've heard of, some we haven't heard about, some we're not talking about, and yet I'm officially wondering where they are right now. Josip Jovic, the first dead member, died for Easter on Plitvices, you've all heard of him. The treasure of Zadar, the legendary commander, the warlord who died in Vukovar. His son Robert Zadro, few people heard of him, wounded, died on the Kupres chasing tanks. Ivan Rezic, Special Agent ATI Lucko died in a breakthrough on Vukovar. Jure Kapatovic, special troops of the Croatian Army wounded in Vukovar, died on the southern battlefield. Goran Kliscevic was wounded twice to die pulling out a wounded rival. Andrija Matijaš, legendary Commander of the 4th Guard Brigade, died in direct battle with the enemy. Renato Rudic, commander of the company, died chasing at 20, 30 enemies. Predrag Matanovic, the legendary commander in the 2nd Guard brigade of one battle, was killed in "Storm" against Petrinja. Damir Tomljenovic, one of the best commanders the Croatian Army has given from the 1st Guard Brigade, died on Velebit. Franco Zagorčić, Marijan Suto, Carlo Pajić, Ivica Vukicevic died in Krushevo, after 15 days we got a body to save our few, he was captured. The body that was massacred and we couldn't identify it, only by the boots. Ivica Folic, Jozo Kunac, Nevenko Petric, Josip Markic, Nikola Đalto, Alfred Lisica, Zvonko Mlinarić, Ivan Poljak commanders in Vukovar. Anton Gašić, Velimir Djerek, Mile Mlinarić, Stipica Barišić, Ivica Colak, Badjo Šimić, Ante Šaško, Damir Martic and as the last to be told here today by Anti Toni Meštrović. He was 19 when he was in '91. The year was killed in a violent attack personally led by Ratko Mladic from Knin towards Sibenik on the Miljevac plateau destroyed four armored transporters, tanks and two trucks. She's 19. Who knows about him? Who heard of him? They only heard the ones who buried him, no one else. Are these people heroes? Did these people die heroically defending us and the Republic of Croatia? Many were dowry young men who did not even taste life. Well, I guess those people are entitled to the street, to the square. They must not remain unknown. We bear the blame for their anonymity. What's the Homeland War? Homeland war is these young men. These aren't the phrases we use most when we swear to the Homeland War from time to time. On behalf of these people, on behalf of those I didn't mention, and they also deserved here, I again appeal to understanding and support. The establishment of the "Hero of the Homeland War" would correct injustice against hundreds of defenders who made it possible to create an independent and independent Republic of Croatia by their heroism, suffering and sacrifice. When, at the end of the day, we discover a series of negative phenomena, things, false defenders, it's time to find out and talk about those rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25815	Thank you. We have one correction, I hope it's not a correction to this claim. Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25816	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's just one correction to a distinguished colleague, Kotromanovic and a comrade. Well, it's not true that only two medals were established for heroes and heroes of the Homeland War. Of the 29 medals established in the Republic of Croatia, as many as 15 are for the service in the Croatian Army and for the honor of serving the country. 15 medals that are sorted at various levels certainly reward enough for all those who deserve it. Especially those who died as an honorable memory of what I would talk about in my discussion. And let me say, given the commendation given by colleague Kotromanovic. I consider myself one who has done something for the country of Croatia and therefore I am justly rewarded with 11 medals and medals and I am quite satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25817	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. The chairman of the Defence Committee, Mr. Boris Shprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25818	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the respected representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 7th session held on 24 September 2008 discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, which was delivered by Ante Kotromanovic to the President of the Croatian Parliament by a representative in the Croatian Parliament in an act of 16 June 2008. It was opened on the basis of Rule 64a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and discussed the act in question as an interested working body. The mistake says that as a parent, the home body is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The proposal for a law supplementing the laws on distinctions and recognitions of the Republic of Croatia was initially explained by Proposer Ante Kotromanovic at the Croatian Parliament, who said in his presentation that by establishing the "Hero Homeland War", he would correct the injustice against the defenders about 100 times who did the heroic work, but did not get the medal for it. This Committee also adopted the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 28 August 2008. The government official stressed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Fines and Recognition of the Republic of Croatia submitted by Ante Kotromanovic. In particular, the Government's representative stated in his presentation that the applicable law had already established qualities for exceptional courage, a heroic act in war, a direct war danger or in special circumstances in peace, and that the conditions and procedures of their assignment were detailed. It is further noted that, in the light of the legislative proposal, it is necessary to establish strict criteria for the award of the proposed character, but that the normative part of the text of the bill does not contain criteria or the name of the body responsible for making the same as the legislator’s authority that the criteria can be laid down by sublaw, and that part of the draft law relating to the assessment does not contain a response to which the intended resources would be used. Following the opening explanation of the draft laws and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, members of the Defence Committee participated in the debate and expressed their opposition opinions. First, I'll read the ones that were in favor of passing the proposed law. "1st that many of the dead Croatian defenders, or their families, did not receive the postmortem medal for courage. 2. that it is necessary to establish such a feature because there are living heroes to which the same might be assigned. 3. to elaborate the criteria for the award of the medal in question and form a commission which could assign a maximum of 100 medals to the "Hero of the Homeland War". 4. that a small number of features based on the current law can be assigned to soldiers, officers and officers in relation to the number of medals in other countries where soldiers can be assigned from 10 to 20 medals. 6. to support the proposed law-complementary initiative and to improve it before re-routing the procedure. 7. that the adoption of a new law on honours should be proposed and the case should be incorporated. And the 8th that there is a public interest that we have heroes of the Homeland War." And we have opinions that are against law-making. "1st that many of the dead and wounded Croatian defenders from the Homeland War have not received the merits and do but it is now too late to establish a new medal; 2nd that the existing law has satisfactorily resolved the issue of award and number of medals." After the debate was held, it was proposed to adopt the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Delicacies and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia and to present all objections, proposals and opinions to the Government in order to prepare a final draft of the law. That proposal was voted by the members of the committee in favour, 4 votes against and 1 vote abstention, and decided to propose the adoption of the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. "The Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Fines and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia is not accepted." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25819	Thank you. No one's answering on behalf of the board here. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Mato Biljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25820	Thank you. Mr. President, gentlemen representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal to supplement the Law on Fines and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia. In his opening section, the Proposer said what led him, or with which guidelines he went to the proposal. I trust my friend and warrior that he had a good intention and that he probably didn't want to use it for daily political purposes. But I cannot agree either with the Croatian Democratic Community club that major mistakes have been made over the past period towards Croatian defenders. If someone did it, we certainly didn't do it. Thirteen years ago, some war activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in the area controlled by the Croatian Defence Council on the edges of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the last actions were conducted, meaning the united forces of the Croatian Army and the Croatian Defence Council with the BiH Army around the area around the border itself in that part. It's been 13 years. The Croatian Government passed, proposed to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament passed the rule by which the act "Red Prince of Domagoj" was awarded for heroism and "Nikola Šubić Zrinski" was awarded for the heroic act. And what we're talking about today and how I realized this proposal that this hero of the Homeland War should be assigned to our dead fallen knights and missing. Then I must remind myself that "Red Peter Zrinski and Fran Kriste Frankopan" with a gold player is assigned to Croatian citizens as an honorary sign of eternal memory of the deceased. Also, that order with a special player is assigned to those who have disappeared. In his introduction, the promoter said that there were 14 thousand dead in Croatia, a thousand and 100 missing, more than 25,000 wounded. I would like to add that the members of the Croatian Council of Defence who together defended the border of the Republic of Croatia and I remind you where the troops of the Croatian Defence Council in Bosnia and Herzegovina have failed to cross the Sava River or the border and occupy the Republic of Croatia, that a circus of about 6.5 thousand dead members of the Croatian Council of Defence and over 12 thousand wounded can be added. The hero of the Homeland War, the very word in medieval world practice, was accepted as a hero, as a superhuman. The question arises which committee, which team of people today is 13, 15, 16, 17 or 18, which today can determine which hero, who is that first superhuman, which is ten first medals, which are the first table, or a thousand, or 10 grand. If we're going to assign, we suggest we assign to all those who have fallen. And who today, after so many years, is willing to do and to cause another pain to those who are left out of these assignments. It's a good, noble gesture to be assigned to one part. Surely we have out of these twenty thousand, over 20,000 of our dead knights that we may have 20 thousand just the first heroes, knights who were wounded several times, who stood before a column of tanks with one evil. And a smaller one with one of the first land mines where we didn't even have a lighter at the very beginning. But we also need to know that there were those who were either mobilized for the second and third time, dropped a grenade in the military, unfortunately he died. He was mobilized, he was dressed. The question is, how are we going to fix it? How can we tell someone that, mother, grandson, son, family, and your husband, grandfather, mother, brother or sister died but they didn't die like heroes? Because as far as I'm concerned, the funds are somewhere around $3 million, and in three years, they're going to be allotted to all these medals. I think all the failures that have occurred in all our war brigades to bear great responsibility are the chain of command starting with the commanders and through the personal services of certain brigades to the choir areas. Because we had to know when we had some kind of death because we were writing war routes for these people. I had the honor of commanding two worries, one R brigade and one Guard brigade in the Homeland War. And every year as a sign, one in the fall, one in the spring I have an anniversary brigade and I organize as a warlord with one team of people, although the brigade from the place I led during the Homeland War has no centre, because the town of Dervent is occupied. But that's what we do in the Slavon ship and we do it again in Derventa. And let's remember every time all of our defenders, the dead. And we know each other very well how and in what way who died. With all the above and the suggestions that fellow Kotromanovic said, the Croatian Democratic Community Club, not for political reasons, but simply for all these reasons that we have said, that we do not right now make a great injustice and not again touch those knights who gave their lives and their families and that we do not again make a mistake to say this is a hero, and this is not. To me, they're all heroes, they're all dead in the defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and they can all be heroes, all or none! Thank you very much. The Democratic Community club will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25821	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25822	I actually have to make two corrections, but by one name, I'm a member of the War Veterans Committee, and in my own time, I've said that I'm thinking about no longer taking part in the work because unfortunately, like all around the Homeland War, everything is politicized. My colleague Mato started with a thesis that resembles church dogma, even church dogmas are now being questioned and questioned. We weren't wrong. Unfortunately, I only have one fact to say. If the Storms were led by people who today have acts from the former JNA, they've never been translated. Why aren't some people who have made that decision politically? And if that's all we bring down to it, that's enough reason to question and question all our decisions and all our views, regardless of what's been 13, 14, or 15 years since the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25823	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25824	My colleagues and colleagues, I was born the fourth child in my family and the youngest, and I remember when I was a boy, it was, five, six years ago, when my older brother and two sisters would go to school, and then I would secretly take the books that they forbidd me to take. Two were particularly intriguing to me, one of those books was an encyclopedia in the pictures of the World around us, fascinating, interesting, colorful, and the other, the other, the book that I was forbidden to take or play with was tied to a screen with a relief and the book was called "The People's Heroes of Bania and Sisak". The book for the boy who read it then included photographs and short descriptions of history, biography and significant events related to these people. I will now list you at least 20 names from that long-read book by Cape, Spiljak, Marjana Cvetković, Frana Ogulinca, Selje, etc. I ask you colleagues and colleagues, who is this child, who, say, an eight-year-old can name any hero of the Homeland War? I'm not pulling any historical parallels. Not only do they not know that. Two years ago, there was a big debate, because one of our colleagues was caught at one point in the question of listing three heroes of the Homeland War, she was in trouble. It was written, spoken, and I responsibly argue, not that the students, ordinary citizens, but MPs, we who are on average informed, nat average politicised, nat average historicalally educated do not know who the heroes of the Homeland War are. I beg you, a small poll, write it down, but right now, four names of Homeland War heroes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25825	This is not exactly in line with the rules of procedure, to be shared here by the surveyors.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25826	Well, listen, the Rules of Procedure can't predict all the situations. My colleagues and colleagues, don't take this as a provocation, this is an attempt for us all to imagine together over the fact that we are probably the only country in the world that has fought a defensive, just war. A war after which there are no heroes. Everything my predecessor Mato said actually went against what he finally concluded. On the contrary. I beg you also if you know, name one holder of Domagoj or Trpimir, you don't know about it, you don't know about it. In the eighth grade of primary school, two hours are taught about the Homeland War. They're fighting over whether to name any defender in our city or the square, where he was a unit, so it weighs even his political or not knowing what, ideological commitment, etc. That's not allowed. The argument that you cited Mato against this, that it's been 13 years since the fight, is exactly an argument to me contrary. This very time distance can help us form an independent professional and serious commission without any bidding, without cheering for its own from my brigade, my city or my neighborhood or my acquaintance, to objectively valorize heroism. I can't agree that there are no heroes. Stranglers, a British punk group sang "no more heroes any more". It's not true there's no hero. It would be tragic for any generation and for any society that there is no hero. To say that we're all heroes can be a handsome euphemism to say no one is a hero. That's not true. Inflation of the medal we had, giving these medals, forgive me only to ask that you do not enter in these survey lists the name of General Zagorec. It's the only one I'm sure no one will make a mistake if he writes it, because he's got all the medals he can get. He's the only one. So the inflation of the medals, the criteria by which they were assigned really disabling, diminished a large part of these medals. My colleague Mato said we had many dead. These are our comrades who have suffered in different ways. I appreciate every life and every sacrifice that has fallen for this country. But to say there were no heroes, that's not a good message. There are people in Croatia and there are people out of nowhere, I know them. Both Jojo and Štef and Dragec came either from the hardware store or from the refinery or worked as craftsmen, drivers, taxi drivers, who showed incredible courage in the war. Just little people. There is no reason to excellencies in our contributions, and everyone's contribution should be appreciated. That's why we have 19 medals. We have 19 medals that are ranked differently. Yes, there are differences in our contributions. I'm proud of my participation in the Homeland War. I'm proud of what I did, but I don't consider myself a hero. I can list my colleagues, my comrades whom I truly admire today for what they did during the Homeland War. This courage, sacrifice, and knowledge they showed both the art and the way they were given is fascinating. My colleagues and colleagues, I know that many will find it rude to adopt a proposal, the government has, in addition, been manifested, coming from one opposition representative. Drop it. Don't accept it if it's that hard. We at the SDP club will accept it and support it. You throw it away. But I ask you to think again about how and in what way now with less cool, so to speak, with a lot of emotion, we who have been in the Homeland War surely today, but cooler, prepare the law. Let the government prepare him. Let's do something to correct the apparent injustice that has failed and thus diminished the special heroic contributions, because we don't and we don't all have to be heroes. But some of us are. You also see this as a kind of pledoia that in a serious way talk about what should not be more controversial and which should not be ideological or politicised in any way. We in Croatia, unfortunately not only do we not know who our enemies were, but our young people don't even know who our heroes were, but they don't even know who our enemies were. There is a general and casual, extremely unfair and bad picture and an answer that can be heard when talking to young people. Who were our enemies, the Serbs say. That's offensive and incorrect. We have fought against a cataclysmic, freakish, historically dominated great-serb fascist ideology that was in its nature genocide, conquerive and extremely unacceptable. But we have not fought against the Serbian people and it is not fair to those of our fellow Serbs who make their contributions in their cities and in this country at all. That's why we have to talk about who attacked us. They're not Serbian colleagues, they're not Serbs, it's like we're not able to distinguish Beethoven and Hitler. I ask you that if we are not able to evaluate and appreciate in a civilized way what we did in the Homeland War, if we are unable to distinguish what it is and who we have fought against, then we are in good condition that even in less, so to speak, in historical matters we make serious mistakes and failures concerning the citizens of this country today. I ask you therefore that this problem that we have talked about several times in this House is often very acute, not with arguments, that in a serious, scientific, professional way, and that the question of the heroes of the Homeland War is also dealt with in such a systematic, serious way and that this initiative or an idea that I am sure that my colleague Kotromanović and I am a hero, although I am sure that this proposal has not been made pro-domo sua. After all, he also numbered 20 Croatian defenders who could be found in such a list. Will it be 100, 200 I don't know. But 500,000 of those who are being held as Croatian defenders certainly did not, although each man's contribution was to be respected directly on the battlefield, he worked at a bakery or hospital and thus helped. These are contributions to be appreciated. But it's not supposed to nivell and say that we were all exactly the same in that because it's just not historically correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25827	Thank you. We have three corrections. First it's Mr. Mato Biljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25828	I'm going to try to correct the inaccuracy of my colleagues when he said that my argument was that it was too late, or that 13 years had passed. No, I was just talking about that 13-year-old number that's already behind us, but about the inability to choose who these heroes are today from 20-and-a-half, over 20,000 of our defense attorneys died. Which commission, which is a team of people who can say here of these 20,000, 1,000 is heroes, the rest are not. They're heroes to me, they've given their lives. And I'd fix another one. Not only did the Government of the Republic of Croatia reject one proposal from the opposition representative, but all representatives of the roof associations on board. Everyone said no to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25829	Correction Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25830	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, so I will correct one of a series of incorrect allegations, I would also say the cynicisms used by colleagues, if it weren't for 18 medals, medals and medals, but it is 29. That's what you should have looked at the law to see and know. In that 29 and the one who speaks, you only said one thing about Prince Domagoj who has him. I'll list who has it amongst the others that I remembered. But there is also the order of Queen Yelena as well as the order of King Peter Kresimir, who is also for the highest military officials established. But what I wish you to direct Domagoj has also Gotovina, and Markac, and Cervenko the deceased, and the late Bobetko, and Lucic, and Norac, and Romic,... And Matanović, and the play of hundreds of other men of honor, who led, commanded the forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About historical facts, we should best say when you suppressed Croatian defenders and you persecuted them, when you disgraced them, and when you threw mud at them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25831	Thank you. This isn't a correction, this is the last one, so let's move on. We have another correction, Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25832	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, this is certainly a topic that will not be well accepted in the Croatian public. So we heard that here are some translated acts, and the correction is, therefore, anything can be heard in the Parliament, but that the Serbs did not attack Croatia. So I think it's completely incorrect. Not only did they attack Croatia, but they attacked all non-Serb nations in their conquest campaign. And therefore, both in Krajina and Yugoslavia, Milosevic and Babic both had the undivided support of the Serb people for this aggression. That right there, this is actually a continuation of one policy. But therefore hear in the Parliament that we were not attacked by Serbs, it offends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25833	They didn't attack. Please, let me get one thing straight here. Mr. Vidovic is right when he says that he did not attack the Serbian people, but some who had great Serbian ideology. So they attacked Croatia and others did not. So we have to have some distinction here. But Mr. Kotromanović, after the debate, you can get the next one as a proposal. Here's Mr. Agent Antun Korushec on behalf of the HSLS Club, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25834	Thank you, Mr. President, respected ministry representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Let me, on behalf of the HSLS and HSU club, commend the initiative of a respected colleague, Kotromanović, and to say that we really appreciate his contribution to the Homeland War. But in this form, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia cannot be accepted on behalf of the club. Arguing why we can't do that is next. In April 2008, so last year, I put forward a proposal to supplement the Law on Delicacies and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia in a topical afternoon to launch activities, to launch an initiative for the establishment of the Bilogora medal, Papuk, Psunj 1991. The argument I gave for this proposal was very strong, it was content and it was emotional, as was the argument given by a respected colleague Kotromanovic. Let me just say with two or three sentences why I suggested establishing a medal of Bilogora, Papuk, Psunj '91. A year. The historical fact is that in the operation, so Papuk in '91, Orkan in '91, Otkoz 10, a total of 2275 km2 of Croatian territory was released. The historical fact is that it was the first successful or successful first successful operation to release the occupied territory of Croatia in the Homeland War. The operation to liberate Western Slavonia from Sava to Drava was first well planned, planned, and thus became the predecessor of later major liberation operations and victory of the Croatian Army. The importance of these operations for the further defence of Croatia is evident in the fact that there has been a change in the relationship of forces, and without this change in the relationship of forces in Western Slavonia further development of the course of war would be highly questionable. I must remind myself that these operations have raised morale and strengthened faith in victory, because until then the Croatian army was poorly equipped and mostly just retreated. I also believe that this was sufficient reason for the addition of the Law on Recognitions and Delicacies of the Republic of Croatia in a way to establish medals for these operations. I also addressed the military cabinet of the President of the Republic with a request to support this initiative. However, I must honestly admit, I must say that I was already fully aware of the fact that I was looking for intervention and addition in the law for only one medal and for only one space in Croatia, western Slavonia, northwest part of Croatia, space between Sava and Drava, and in that sense I was somewhat and unfair because I neglected other parts of Croatia, other liberation operations and actions that also deserve at least my medal. In doing so, I particularly think of the action of Maslenica, which certainly deserves a medal, and I must say that if justified, serious and unburdened political thinking, that probably some other operations and some defence population deserve medals and it would be an honor and pride to them, I think they should not, but simply through these medals, acknowledge for all that they have done for the benefit of Croatia, for the benefit of their people, with a note that indeed as a Belarusian poet, the writer says that we should repay ourselves in this way to all those who have stopped in eternity by loving the Altar Homeland. I certainly think, therefore, that the action of Maslenica, as well as some other actions, deserves their place in the existing Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, which requires full reflection and addition of the existing law. In this regard, I agree with the fact that the time gap from the end of the war to this day is no obstacle, in my view it is an advantage because it enables objectivity without emotion and without increased tension, regardless of whether it is individuals or groups that are proposed for the medal. In favour of such additions to the existing law that will be applied and to which initiatives and proposals have been submitted so far, and in order to establish the medals or medals for actions that are historically important and which need to be further valorised, I actually support the initiative of a respected colleague, Kotromanovic, however, in a way that the existing law is complemented by all of what will be said in this assembly. In the proposed text, colleague Kotromanović, appreciating your initiative in the proposed text that we have ahead of us, the proposal to supplement the Law on Recognitions and Features, the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU will not support this proposal to supplement the law. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25835	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer, or Proposer, Mr Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25836	Mr. President of the Parliament, here's a few words to somehow respond to what I've heard so far. First of all, I also asked my colleagues in the introduction not to be fierce in their presentations, to really be a cultural debate, a debate that will be absolutely, no matter how it ends in the end, but will be of interest to Croatian defenders. I don't think it's nice, or it's appropriate that we fight in one way right now, but Niko, has the support of the defenders, ask Srđa, Plaza, Joza Modric, they'll tell you what they think of the proposal of the Homeland War hero himself, these are our mutual friends. I think we should really focus on talking today, no matter what this proposal is. Of course it won't pass, but let's talk about the people who did something for the Croatian state, who really did the most. We're not talking about today who got more medals, who got more medals. I don't even want to point out whether these features are divided how, in any way, they're fair. Let's talk about people we didn't talk about, and I mentioned these few names from small Meštrovic to others who made more of us here together for the Croatian state. They died and did more than one heroic act. I beg you to speak in such a way that we don't argue like some kind of midwife, I apologize for this expression if it offends anyone, or dids, anyway, old man, to lose the thread, to lose the point of the idea itself. I'd like to say a few words to my colleagues. He said, "Who can determine which commission today can determine "heroes of the Homeland War" or "heroes"? And in his presentation, he said, I was just underlining it very well, we commanders know each other how someone died. That's enough talking. We know who ordered it, we know how whoever died, how they died, and we have commanders of dozens, commanders of the platoons, commanders of the company, commanders of the brigades, people who meant to be responsible for all operations of the Croatian Army, in the defense, in the attack and we know, we simply know, I know in my unit that who died and I know exactly whether someone could be proposed for the highest honor of "Hero of the Homeland War", and these were definitely persons who were absolutely moral vertical in the unit themselves both before the war and after the death itself. We have at the end of the Association of the families of the dead with whom we can very easily agree and do and this can result, of course sober heads with one good decision of this Croatian Parliament. My colleague Djakic corrected me only in the introduction, I didn't mean, of course I appreciate everyone's role and contribution, but we're not talking about, I'm gonna be a little rude, we're on "you," so there's gonna be "you," don't mind, we've known each other for a long time, and we have a particular dictionary, in the end of the way it's said, brothers we're in arms, but I didn't think of you, you've got medals, I've thought of those people who died in all the operations that are 81st Guardian... Which was great, for those who don't know and who may not have got the "Shubby", "Zrinski" and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about the very features, I have here the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, so it would exclusively refer to the dead members of the Croatian Army who have been repeated several times, so only a heroic act has been done several times. It is clearly categorized here 3 areas of merit, so the law said, so the first merits are the Order of the "King of Tomislav", that I do not list other merits for promoting the defence of Croatian statehood, where this means the Order of the "Croatian Testament", "Križa", "Starčevića" and so on. Thirdly, for the war and military merits of the defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Order of "Ban Josip Jelačić", the Order of "Peter Zrinski" and "Fran Krsta Frankopan", "Nikole Šubić Zrinski", "Domagoj" etc. We have many dead people who have not received these medals of "Ban Josip Jelačić" and the Order of "Peter Zrinski" and "Fran Cross Frankopan" for heroism and courage. I'm the order of Peter Zrinsky and Fran Cross Frankopan, it's a civilian military medal, so it's been assigned to people who died as civilians and soldiers, and that's what motivated me, that's all. Which we do not have clearly, although clearly one prescribed exclusively for the dead members of the Croatian Army, that is all. So I absolutely rule out any policy and I hate it when someone gives it to me that way because of '91. I assure you in '91. The years in any trench, in any operation were not seen left or right, who was from which party and how was who... We were simply all friends, warriors who fought to preserve the Republic of Croatia and to preserve what we had to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so I ask you once again not to be too hard to be, let's be correct, and I ask you to support this proposal because I am deeply convinced, and I have been very much speaking to the families of the dead for the last six months. They'd like to get that medal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25837	Thank you. We have three corrections and please concentrate on the correction. First Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25838	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's only one correction, and that's that in the Bill's proposal on the Supplements of the Law on Features and Confessions, it's only for the hero of the Homeland War to be killed. That's not true. But in this bill, it is clearly described and defined that these are qualities for both injury and heroism, and for the heroic act, and that thousands are dissatisfied. It's written. In the debate that was held, it was also said that it would only be a hundred, perhaps, that we should get. There are thousands of damages in the second proposal, and now it's just the dead. I mean, it's not defined what's wanted and what's expected of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25839	Thank you. Correction Mr. Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25840	Mr. President, I would correct the inaccuracies of my colleagues, when he said, I specifically said who this commission is that can decide who it is and who is not a hero among over 20,000 people. I didn't say that. I can't take part in that commission. Correction. Correcting, you said it would be done by the Family Association, that warlords would do it. I said it was a commission that wouldn't be wrong to choose from 20,000 people 10 or a thousand, or 10 grand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25841	Thank you. Correction Mr Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25842	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Representative Kotromanovic said, "The medal would be awarded exclusively to the dead." Except for the dead, that's what you said. But in your bill, you said something else. I quote: "In order for Croatian defenders to have their advantage in the assignment." So it's not exactly what you said here. decide what you want to achieve with this bill. That's one thing. The second thing, you're talking about correcting injustice against thousands of defenders, that means we're going to have thousands of medals that you're proposing about the heroes of the Homeland War. I think about this kind of serious subject you need precisely in every way and... and make legal statements and decrees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25843	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25844	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Defence. My debate on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club will largely reflect, convey and support certain conclusions of the Defence Committee, because the current Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia has already prescribed qualities for a heroic act, exceptional courage, and for the dead Croatian defenders. The fact is that there are quite a number of medals allocated, as if there were still room for the assignment independently of the time-out, but there are no medals that would unite all these merits in one. The excellence of the "Hero of the Homeland War" as opposed to the already existing qualities should not only include individual cases of heroic act or courage, but would be assigned to a person with continuity in terms of all virtues of humanity, humanity, morality, honesty, patriotism, sacrifice, courage, charisma to whom defenders believed, who they were willing to follow. The person who marked the period of the Homeland War with her life, work and work in the best way, to the pride of all Croatian defenders, as in all Croatians, both in the country and in the world. The goal of establishing the character of "The Hero of the Homeland War" should not be to correct historical injustices, because in many situations this has been used as a flossule. In addition to giving off the debt of recognition to the person who would be awarded the medal, the goal is much more far-reaching, both for the past and for the future. And this is to create examples that will show all Croatian generations and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia how to love, defend, protect, represent and build countries. Therefore, discussions about a person who deserves such a medal should be very exhaustive and certainly not take a while. The defenders and defence associations are an inevitable factor in the process of proposing and considering the proposal for a medal. It may be a division among the defenders, but the "Hero of the Homeland War" award can only be made by the person who is agreed in the democratic procedure by the majority, and the decision is made at the highest level, because it only then has its true value and longevity. Based on talks with defenders and representatives of defense associations, I conclude that the proposal is very valuable, but not sufficiently well prepared and elaborated. He did not go through a democratic procedure in which defenders would give their opinions and proposals through their associations, and therefore believes that the adoption of it would be hasty, which could result in a counterproductive effect from the expected one. The Croatian Peasant Party Club also supports proposals that go in the direction of comprehensive analysis and evaluations of existing medals and recognitions with a desire for some Croatian military action to be valorised and received merited recognitions. We therefore and fully support the proposals highlighted in the debate of MP Antun Korushec concerning the need for the introduction of the medal "Bilogora, Papuk, Psunj 1991." because it is the first successful operations and actions of the Croatian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25845	Thank you very much. It's up to IDS Club and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25846	Your Honor, Mr. President, the government's representatives, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. It is clear that there is no one here in this assembly who at this time does not express as always awe for every injured Croatian defender, for every participant in the Homeland War. But I also think that at this point, one such confession is not necessary. Far from it, as everyone said, there were no heroes in Croatia in the war. There were them. Kotromanovic mentioned one of Zadar's, and here I will have one living Ivan Obrovec. Many have paid for that heroism in this country with their lives. Many families for the sake of their loved ones' heroism have been denied their attention. On the other hand, it's been about thirteen, fourteen years since the war, and today I think that the award of those acts could open up serious controversy. It could turn into first-rate politics today. Is he, like, a hero of Gotovina? So many will say no to being a hero, he's a knight, he's a leader. Is it wise, on the other hand, to honor Gotovina today with such an order or such one? To be clear, I don't think that because of everything he's being tried for, everything stands. I think "Storm" is absolutely legitimate. I don't think there's been any ethnic cleansing because the authorities have agreed to move the population but I also think that killing an old woman, an old woman, the arson of 20,000 buildings is a crime, a first-rate crime. Or, for example, a Mirko Norac whether Mirko Norac is a hero. Well, a lot of people will say so he's a hero. A man of 20, 21, I don't know. He came out of the war several times wounded, came out with the rank of general. But is his liquidation of the old lady in Gospić a heroic act? It's not. It's a crime he's been convicted of for years. Should such situations then be excluded, perhaps such situations should be taxed. Without it, this law will be flawed and it can easily be converted at this time into a first-class political act or a first-class political reading that can bring huge problems to the country, primarily the award of the medal. Is Markac a hero? Well, he was head of the special police force. I have a maximum positive opinion of Markach. I sat with him for four years in these benches. On the other hand, did the Special Forces commit a storm, say, massive insubordination? Yes, the Marker certainly didn't. But those units are. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the article of this other situation simply does not mention. It says here: "The hero of the Homeland War" is assigned to Croatian and foreign citizens for shown heroism and courage, suffering and sacrifice in the Homeland War. The award of this feature in the explanation is said: "It is necessary to create strict criteria with the aim of giving priority to the dead Croatian defenders." If one Joseph Broz Tito has been decorated three times by a "national hero" I think the HDZ gentlemen deserve it. If this confession will be given both by Franjo Tudjman and the entire state summit, let's talk about it that way. Can it then turn into one of the first-class politics? Should General Zagorec, mentioned by Mr Vidovic, also receive the medal? Let's not underestimate Croatia's weapons. And finally, if a man has all the medals, one more, one less maybe it would mean something to a man. I'm kidding. Understandable. Should this distinction be given to many who have become heroes of conversion after leaving military troops, who have become greatly rich in peace? I repeat once again, we don't need politics right now. It's an act, it's an order for heroism for the period from 91 to 95 once a hero is always a hero, it's not taken away as well as an act of general. Is General Korada a hero? Well, he did, but also in 2008 his mind blacked out, and I suggest we just don't pull the devil's tail at this point. Croatia also has pandas of that quality. Mr Djakić mentioned this on several occasions, and here one is also said: "The medals that are given for the sacrifices in defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, witnessed courage and heroism, heroic act, special merits, participation in the Homeland War are "Red Prince of Domagoj", "Red Nikola Šubića Zrinski", "Red Petra Zrinski", "Frane Krsta Frankopana", "Red of the Croatian Cross", "Red of the Croatian Trolist", "Memory of the Homeland War", etc. And therefore, gentlemen, let's be careful. It is not true and it should also be said clearly that Croatia does not take care of the Homeland War fighters. There's a pension of five thousand, 200 kuna, the National Liberation War fighters, two thousand, 200 kuna. And I also claim that the hand of a lost young man in Gospić or Vukovar in 91 is as valuable as the hand of the one who lost his hand in Cicaria or Kozari in 41 or 43. And that injustice should be corrected as well. I would even say that this second question is because this generation of old warriors in 41, 45 is leaving because biology also deserves one spotty act. There's no time to wait. The inaction that is happening I would say 19 years is a kind of political euthanasia of these people. For the last time, I'm going to say one of these laws can turn into a first-class political act. So you need to be careful, you need to make a clear correction and injustice to the NOB, maybe some Istrian deserves, say, an act of general. We will closely monitor the debate, we will clearly define ourselves after the debate, but now I see that the motion has a slightly altered criterion and that it is exclusively talking about the victims. And there are heroes amongst the living. Maybe there's one among the politicians of heroes. Royce, Glavas, I don't know. In his statement, Mr. Kotromanovic, defacto changed the law, why I said, he is now only talking about the dead, however, it does not stand in the law. And once again, we're going to live heroes and there are those. Some living ones equally looked death into the eyes, were equally wounded, were not rich, had not hurt anyone, had not wronged anyone, and had done nothing for themselves or for their own. ... All those mentioned by Mr. Kotromanovic are heroes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All those mentioned by others are also heroes. Well, probably those who will be on those Vidovic ballots. Absolutely, those who have died deserve the street, respect, care for their families, as tomorrow the same rights will be given to those we consider living heroes. I understand that Mr. Kotromanovic's intention was fair, honorable, correct, a return in some way a debt to his comrades, but I don't think this is the time. Because some of the merits will be left out maybe for a political moment, or just for being alive. On the other hand, I would also like to say that this initiative by Mr Kotromanović is an old initiative. In this House, in one way or another, the government has been discussing the good 10 years, at least three governments have passed, that Matesha government, Racan's government, now Sanader's government, all thought about it and eventually gave it up in some way. Why, perhaps those who are former ministers know best, and today, parliamentary representatives. However, if this legislative initiative passes, do not let injustice happen. Because it's hard to say, there are only 10, only 20, only a hundred heroes in Croatia. And in that part you really need to conduct a very, very thoughtful and serious debate. All in all, once again, I don't think this is the time to adopt such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25847	Thank you. We have three corrections, the first is Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25848	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Cain, allow me to correct an incorrect quote that you have probably said in your failure, but since the Assembly is a place where every word is recorded and eventually archived, and may be a source the next day, I don't know anyone for writing history and calling on spoken words, even if they were careless. So you said that Marker, of course, didn't commit any crimes, but his troops did. So, this is an incorrect allegation not of Markache's, or of Croatian troops, committed crimes, but of individuals who simply under the circumstances they were in, and I don't know what they did to everyone else. However, if this is said to be the case, then an impression can be obtained, especially if someone acquires it on purpose and wants to gain such an impression, that someone systematically committed a crime and that it was the politics of the Republic of Croatia which is not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25849	Thank you. Correction Mr. Zoran... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25850	Thank you, Mr. President. There are a number of incorrect allegations in Mr. Cain's speech, but one is certainly that this recognition of Homeland War hero will not turn into first-class politics. I would also warn all parliamentarians that names, if we didn't talk about names, because if they were heroes now, they'd already get this confession. But I don't see any particular reason in front of our courts, but also before The Hague. And I don't see any danger of Gotovina getting one such confession, if he really is the real hero of the Homeland War, since that same court released that... A plump and let that five, six... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Serbia and we all know what he was doing in Vukovar and what he was doing in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, just one more sentence would be pawned, that these confessions, in any case, and these HSLS proposals cannot be according to territoriality, since all of us, here... and I respect and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Bilogora and everything that was going on there, but I don't think that would be good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25851	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the correction of the quote is an institute that we can allow because it is in the Rules of Procedure, but not a correction of opinion, can have a different opinion and now we have no right, except in replicas, when allowed, to try to influence the opinion of the opposite speaker of the previous one. So, I'd really like to pray, that I've warned you before that we're sticking to the allegations, not opinions. Here you go. Mr. Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25852	Thank you. Well, just when we think he might mostly agree with Mr. Cain's debate, he renegotiates and makes some assessments that he doesn't have any arguments for. A respected colleague said that "Storm", that he agrees that "Storm" is not an ethnic cleansing, but then sets up the authorities that this is a population-removing agreement, it actually gives incorrect assessments without arguments, what was the action supposed to be conducted in the first place, and why did Croatian people die if everything was agreed? It doesn't make sense and it's not good to repeat itself in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25853	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at 10:54, it's past the time to report 10 minutes on this agenda point. And now it's on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25854	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's Mr. Caine no longer here, I think. I was a member of the special police and the Slavon-ship, special police force, we didn't commit any crimes, nor did anyone accuse us, so you know that. [[And there you are.]] And this debate really leads to doubts because when I listened to the Proposer of this Law on the Completion of the Law on Census and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, then I was at the beginning when... I've been making my arguments, I've been really hearty for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I hear remarks that have objective ones, then I really came into one doubt, but I think there can be a satisfactory solution with, let me say, to the satisfaction of both sides that are here today, this is how I see them differentiated according to this bill. The argument that it's been 13 years since the Homeland War actually speaks more of what one who utters it thinks of the Homeland War. I'd say more like thinking about some kind of oblivion, and the Homeland War, the Homeland War, that adjective should be used-defense, we really can't forget. Although one of the top politicians in this country has said it once, I would perhaps not quote or say it correctly, that the Homeland War is a past that should not be considered. I don't agree with that finding. Again, when I look at the name of the proposal of this medal, the hero of the Homeland War, or how I say the hero of the defensive Homeland War, then, given that I'm a rather older gentleman, I remember and name in that former state where there were double or triple heroes, then he was a hero of the work of Ali Sirotanović, so a hero of the city etc. ... Yes, the hero of Ali Sirotanovic's work who transferred the norm to 1,500 percent. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, I'm that name hero is a foreign name. We have a version of us called a hero and we don't have to go smooching with the name hero if we have our name hero which means the same thing, if not something more clear to our people. But since we have in this country how someone found out, really hyperinflation of the defenders, we have a list, we don't actually have a list, but we know that there are more than 500 thousand on that list. Then you really need to make a distinction among those who have earned both their lives and later work in this country, but first of all, I am talking to them about the Homeland War, my heroism or heroism. That's the kind of guy he's got. They were named after Mr. Kotromanović, and even Mr. Cain mentioned our General Ivan Obrovec from Slavonski Brod. I would add a special unit commander, first commander Simu Djamic and a series of others from Slavonski Brod. Here's a little bit of a patriot, but I have to point out here from this pay phone that Slavonski Brod had three brigades, 10,000 men under arms, that our people were making the 3rd Battle of the 3rd Guard Brigade, that it was a special police unit and relatively to its population, that our city and our county of Brod-Posavina really gave a big, big share in the defensive Homeland War, as well as the whole of Slavonia, because we know the situation because we are really edged parts towards the countries and the environment from which the aggressor actions are coming in the Republic of Croatia, Slavonia and Baranja. I'm proud of being a member of the Special Police and I told Mr. Caine that I was in, and I wasn't, and I was in the field, I didn't see any crime or anything like he likes to insinuate. I'm not decorated with anything, and I don't want to, because I considered my duty to the homeland to go wherever it takes, either to a military unit or to a special police unit. Where they need me. Nor do I expect that to happen. When gentlemen from this, let me say, my right-hand side is thinking about the possibility of some I would say abuse or the inability to put together quality commissions, as Mr Dujmovic said, the commission, even though the commission is said in a sense, in connection with a possible assessment of heroism or heroism, then in fact, the Priory comes from the fact that there will be irregularities which I find inconceivable. I can't accept it that way and quite certainly, if there were in some other committees in the evaluation, let me say, and the number of defenders, and even a large number of fake disabled Homeland War, here I really think that such a single medal is indeed a feature in which these criteria would be completely clear and loud. Now that's exactly what we're getting at. In its proposal, the applicant did not make one enough, so this argument is lacking. Later, he turned to only the dead, which I don't think is good because we have absolutely certain, as Ante Kotromanovic and living heroes would say, those who managed to save their lives, the rest of us alive after the war. And they live with great dignity and honor. No, I wouldn't accept it if this law were passed if it were just for those who died, not by any chance. So, given this fact, I think this bill is a bit missing and underdeveloped. If we accepted this as a first reading, then it would be time to think about it and agree together to go to another reading where we would exactly make a distinction, arguments, data, and everything else where we would determine exactly the characteristics of the one who deserved this medal. And then I'd really be into it, and now I'm on top of it. Only with this one to say goodbye and to correct that possible flaw in this proposal. So, I'm basically in. That's why we don't need to politicize here. Now one member of the SDP has proposed, but we will not adopt it because, not us but they will not adopt it, because I am equally far away from understanding the left and right political sex, but we should not look at it nor who suggested it. The proposal is good, but it's kind of missing and unworked. In his discussion, Mr. Vidovic spoke about how he had two books in his childhood in his debate, whether it was that way or not he listed them. And I'm here somewhere maybe, a little older even had a chance to watch books over the past century, so in a comic book, right, so he was Captain Mark who was a hero or hero of the American Liberation War. I really don't, I don't know, here I may not know because I don't have a schoolboy that age. But I don't think we have any such example in the Republic of Croatia. And we read and watched and got carried away by the actions of some Zagor, Captain Mark, and I don't even know what kind of American heroes. And we have our own Homeland War, a defensive Homeland War that could indeed have been carried out by those who are engaged, so cultural workers and others are just that our youngsters, that our children may, by this means, have just learned and received more information about the Homeland War than they are now giving in two school hours when they learn in elementary school about the Homeland War, so they don't even know who the aggressor is, or who was defending or who it is. Maybe that's why this flood is happening to you, and I don't know what it is. And about that, it's not a topic. That's what you'd say off the cannon, isn't that what we're gonna talk about right now? That's why I say in principle and as a club, here I support in any case and given the sacrifices that Slavonia and Baranja made in the Homeland War, which amount to almost 50% of all the dead and wounded. I am for such a medal. We can also name him a hero, not a hero. But still eventually to do the technique itself, that is, the details of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25855	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25856	Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the Department of Defense, colleagues and colleagues. First, I'd like to speak to the proposer's club, colleague Kotromanovic. We support your idea and agree that in the Homeland War there were heroes, heroes, knights, we call them whatever we want, there were. There were them in Vukovar, there were them in Dubrovnik, there were them on their faces and all the other battlefields. We also agree with you fellow Kotromanovic that most of those who would belong to the hero category are no longer alive, so we understand your suggestions as well. Most of them died during the Homeland War, and many died of disease and injury after the war. The biggest objection to your proposal goes to the fact that this proposal should have been in the Croatian Parliament 15 years ago. So it's a time-miss, but it's given and explained. In fact, I think you'll agree with me, that those who had to take care of it at the time had some other slightly unusual priorities, were engaged in the issue of privatisation, were engaged in trade, were engaged in the establishment of their companies and were concerned about the personal future and the future of many generations of their descendants. The defenders were slightly in a secondary position although they all swore that they were the most significant part of the party's policy, but the fact is that their associations were broken into very small associations to be mutually opposed, so that their impact would be as small as possible. It would make sense that these people were decorated right after the war. It would be logical that the criteria which should have been very clear criteria, transparent criteria, public criteria were then drawn up and there would probably not be many objections. Unfortunately, that's not the case. We've already heard the most distinguished person is a person who's never been in a trench, and unfortunately, there's a lot of them. And the real heroes of the Homeland War have often gone completely unrecognizable and not to be recognized. Unfortunately, my colleague Kotromanović and I today do not have the opportunity to see all these honorable names that defended Croatia during the Homeland War, which is tragic, unacceptable that you and I as parliamentary representatives but also other citizens cannot see that list. And then I ask you in which way to be objective and make proposals to honor this species or that species if we don't even know the names of the people who defended this country? The question that I would raise here and end up with a few thoughts is something quite different, and the other clubs didn't talk about it, and I hope that you as a proposing would agree with me. Namely, whether the real heroes of the Homeland War, whether they were fighting for medals or for a different state, a state democratic, sovereign, legal, state where fundamental human rights will be respected, a country that will be economically successful, a country in which they will be able to meet a certain standard worthy of man. That's the basic question we haven't talked about. So we're talking about medals, medals, one piece of metal, not those who should have worn that metal on their chests. If today's parliamentary majority of colleagues in Kotromanović don't accept your proposal, I don't consider it crucial, but I consider it a crucial fact that we have given these people too little attention, that we have really given their ideals and their dream a little attention. Let us be honest and try to answer the question whether today's Croatia, Croatia, which these wonderful people, the honorable people dreamed of? When we honestly know how to answer that question and want to answer that question completely honestly, then we have at least made the first step. The second step is to be effective in realising their dream and successful economic, successful states, democratic states, the rule of law and all those elements that they felt should be improved in the country they wanted to live in, the state where they see their future. It's only when we, as Parliamentarians, work on this trail that way that we will repay these people, their children, their grandchildren because they deserve it. I hope you understand me, and I hope you agree with me. It's our personal and true goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25857	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Proposer, or Proposer, Mr Ante Kotromanović. But before that, I'm sorry there's one correction, Mr Kresimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25858	Dear Mr. President, I would say because of the truth and against politics such a serious topic, it is necessary to correct Mr. Doric's incorrect quote that he claimed, quote: "Those who should have cared about such qualities did not do so when the time was 15 years ago, were engaged in privatisation and other similar topics." That's not true. Parliament of the Republic of Croatia's House of Representatives, decision to declare the Law on Fines and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, 15 March 1995, Commander-in-chief and President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Franjo Tudjman. Read the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25859	And Mr. Ante Kotromanović, the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25860	President of the Parliament, fellow MPs. Listening to the debate, a couple of my colleagues reiterated a certain thesis that the law should be completed, that it is not the best. That's what I said in my introduction. He is neither the best, nor the smartest, nor I consider myself the best, nor the smartest, I consider myself an ordinary average citizen of the Republic of Croatia. That's why I've been begging and always asking for help. I think the idea is essentially good, that it doesn't need to be petty, that you don't need to look for a point and a decimal in the proposal if we accept this idea and project, then there's no basis for such petty views on the bill itself. I think, of course, that the law could have been more comprehensive, better and not to list everything my colleague Ćosic said, but if the idea is good, colleague Ćosic, then it should be supported and that is what is essentially the most important and important. That's why I said in the introduction alone here. Well, I don't mind if the government accepts that she's the project bearer, Parliament, here's how the Parliament can be the project's own bearer and fully adjudicate some political options, if Parliament and the Government stand behind it, so of course we'll all support it, I think a good idea how to idea. And it won't be a problem to make good criteria and strict criteria and we won't make irregularities because we're alive. We're still alive and we know how and how people died and I say responsible that there will be no problem and there will be no irregularities because today we can still look very realistically and very objectively at the things that happened a dozen years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25861	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25862	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It's obviously easy to speak in the Parliament today. The first thing that fellow Kotromanovic apparently hit with his legal proposal is one of the most important things of our past. On the other hand, there's a lot of defense attorneys here, we're lucky to have 3 former defence ministers, Mr. President of the Parliament is in the most pregnant time, summer/ fall of '91. was Defence Minister, counterpart Hebrang later and colleague Antunovic later. And as Kotromanovic just pointed out, this is the first reading. This is the first reading. So, if I understood correctly, everyone supported the principle of the measure of things. I'd like you to improve your proposal. You can improve it to join Ante Kotromanović, as we were together in the 1990s and this is an optimal opportunity for you. No representative club said the proposal was bad. Maybe the criteria aren't done. Make it better. Welcome. Ante certainly won't have a problem with having a whole club around his name yet, all clubs in the Croatian Parliament, and it's been 15 years. It's been 18 years. That's what I've forgotten. Now, that's not good. Especially, and we all agree it was hyperinflation, and today there's a hyperinflation of excellence. We all agree. And our citizens know that. Everyone who's in '91 knows. were in ZNG's uniform. I was a doctor then. You know, ZNG was attended by people from the street, waiters, chefs, bakers, electricians, lawyers, economists, university professors, fellow Cosic is like a university professor, me as a master and an internal specialist went to ZNG and remembers the reaction, I look at them as a doctor, when I dress up in uniform. They remember the reaction when the weapon was in debt, they remember the reaction when the bullet was put in. Three, four, five in the morning. You remember... to seek the help of a doctor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because it was a situation that wasn't common for doctors, medical technicians, medical radiology engineers, bakers, electricians because these are stressful situations, because these are unusual situations, remember those times. You remember the good side and the bad side. And if you remember those times, if you remember all your friends, comrades, comrades, then you will certainly improve Ante Kotromanović's proposal. Because it's your debt. It's our debt. Surely, I have no doubt, and it's especially a good thing because it's a first reading. So, I'm asking you to get those people off this historic distance. Especially in the situation, it was the Health Committee this morning, so we talked about it a little bit when the number went up to 500 grand. Of course, everyone wasn't in uniform because they can't all be on boards, because they're not all for uniforms and it's logically psychological profile of man, simply so it can't be, that he can't take arms in hand, we're here, at least there's a lot of doctors, we know. But all those who had the courage, the heart, the ability to make an honorable call should be remembered. And remember, here was Defence Minister Luka Bebic, after which there were several ministers, so they said, let's put some difference, let's put a distinction in '92, let's put a date on January 15th, '92. Remember that. Then let's put the date on May '92. When we were admitted to the United Nations, 'il, when I returned to my hospital on the "Rebro" only in May of '92. Or Bagaric on his mission. There's got to be a date, it's got to be a criterion, and it's got to be a criterion, and it's saying that we can't find a criterion, putting, putting head in the sand again, and that's inadmissible. I ask you kindly to keep an eye on the expression, for our friends, comrades, and all those who were with us are watching and commenting. So the historical distance is an optimal opportunity to finally have this medal, not to leave it to oblivion. Fifteen thousand defenders. The solution is simply the gentlemen of the ministry, put us on the Internet, please put us on the Internet, please. Line up the brigades, please line up the brigades. Ask the commanders of the brigade and you will create a criterion, a time of work. scientific, professional and experienced. No problems, don't put JMBG on. It's important for catharsis, for catharsis, it's important for both us and all those who unfortunately are not present. Otherwise, red tape isn't good. And I've been to bureaucracy and administration, not good. I'm very sad that it happened a month ago, two days ago when on the list of our defense attorneys who died for PTSD and suicide were 50 of those who were alive. So 50 of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia were declared dead and led by our administration as dead by 1700 people. Well, it's a disaster. Let's think about it, not as much as anyone has medals. So we can't keep a list of a thousand 700 people. It's the administration's fault, but he blames me as the Croatian Parliament. So, the list, the list of defenders who got PTSD because PTSD is definitely a disease in its segment, worse than cancer. And cancer is a dangerous malignant disease that destroys the body, and PTSD, the real PTSD is the same if not worse than cancer cancers of any disease. That's why I'm sad that in the programme of government, these governments of the current government, and the Ministry of Health, there's not one word in the government's programme on the health of defenders, not one word. I've said that a few times, so repeat. There's only one chapter in the Defense Department's programme on support, on families of the dead, and I know that preventive checks have started. But I'm going back to these 50 that were run like dead. So you can think of their reactions, their loved ones. What do they think of those who lead it and of us? Did you go to give them psychological support? Did they get PTSD because they saw creatures being led like dead? What do they think of us? Put yourself in their position. That's why I'm asking you, because obviously there was a dispute that this reading was, first reading, help Anti-Cotromanovic, help the SDP club, make the criteria. In the end, solve them with a sublegal act. This is an optimal opportunity to repay the debt to all these honorable people after all. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25863	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I applied for the replica of my colleague Ostojić because he said he disagreed with those who claimed that this law should have been in the parliamentary procedure 15 years ago, because those who think so essentially consider that this proposal should have been left behind. I, when I spoke in front of the HNS, also mentioned those 15 years, but never in the context of oblivion. The heroes of the Homeland War should not forget, but what I wanted to underline is the fact that we must begin to recognize our mistakes, and mistakes were made, because 15 years ago it was really necessary to single out the heroes of the Homeland War in a special category, with special rights, privileges. They deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25865	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25866	Thank you. My colleague, therefore, is obviously the noise of communication, and it is quite clear that you and I are talking about the metrics and that we are in the same attitude towards this law and these people. And of course that's why I was saying it was back in '92, '93. Let's put on January 15, '92, let's put on May '92. Reception to the United Nations. It's a process that lasts, but then the passions were different. You know, back then, feelings were different. The historical distance is an optimal opportunity. We can't change the past, but we can learn a lot from the past, and this is a chance to learn something. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25867	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25868	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, which was sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament and presented to the esteemed representative of his colleague Kotromanović. In which he suggests setting up a new character of "The Hero of the Homeland War". I personally cannot be and support this bill at these moments and cannot say that its demand is not objective, that we do not politicise the merits of the Homeland War and the definition of merit in the Homeland War. I would agree that we should not politicise if a colleague Vidovic did not intervene and politicise it in fact. I'd talk with a lot less emotion today about this proposal, so I'd say there wouldn't be politicizing if we'd made some task force, if we'd discussed it on the board, if we'd given the initiative together, then there wouldn't be politicizing. This is definitely how politicizing is. In fact, I believe that this proposal is complemented by a law on the excellence of the Homeland War, which comes with a great delay in me, and the delay is at least a decade, i.e. a decade. 13 years have passed since the end of the Homeland War. Many of our friends are no longer alive, many commanders who know the objective truth, are no longer with us but have died or died in traffic accidents, many real facts have not been put on paper, many of those who deserve it, the fact is that they have been neglected. And that's what I'm going to say about how they were neglected and how in 2000, 60 of them were left without distinction and recognition. I would like to say that the current laws of the Republic of Croatia and the amendments and additions throughout this period are set up as I would say and the facts speak for the approval of the legal provisions are set up by 29 features of the Republic of Croatia, of which 15 are for merits in the Homeland War, for the merits of the formation of the Croatian military, Croatian police and these features are distributed through three segments so that we have four grandeurs of which two grandeurs can be applied and assigned to top military commanders and officials. So, out of four grandeurs, two can also be assigned to military officials. Yes of these qualities seven, i.e. 18 ranks were established of seven medals and medals that were also for the Homeland War. From everything it is evident and it turns out that the fifteen quite satisfying needs of those who created the Republic of Croatia, defending the Republic of Croatia with weapons and killing for them and bleeding for it must have experienced their satisfaction. Anything else that would have happened today would have been deficient, unsettled, and without standards and proper criteria. It is unknown that anyone should receive it as is evident from the proposal of the law itself to speak in one segment of the thousands, in another debate on the committees for veterans as well as on defences, a hundred are only to be obtained. In the end, there is also a possibility that it may be only those who have died. I therefore believe that the law is inadmissible and cannot support it in this form. If we are to have the opportunity and find the right standards and criteria, I will certainly be in order to form one or more of these qualities that would unite all the merits of those who have truly created their homeland, who have created freedom and this European atmosphere today certainly need to be covered by these qualities. I would like to stress that through this medal that is grand, which is the greatest among those who can be assigned to the soldiers is "bested Queen Yelena with Lent and Danica" and "bested by King Peter Kresimir IV. with Lent and Danica" awarded to top military officials of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for a remarkable contribution to the creation of a military doctrine strategy, merits in the construction of the Croatian Army and for the special successes in the management and command of troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I think it's such an honor that whoever's wearing this stunt and I've seen it, and I think here I can say now it won't be safe to remember that such a grandeur has General Lucic, I believe that Bobetko has it, too, I believe that he also had the late Chervenko. And they were actually military strategists. They could have had a few more but they didn't have a reason to count it. Next we have "Red Prince Domagoj with a necklace" assigned to Croatian and foreign citizens for the demonstrated courage and heroism in war, direct war danger or in... Circumstances in peace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this Order of the Prince of the Domagoj is really a medal that replaces the medal of heroes, and it's appropriate for those who deserve it in the Homeland War to get it. Some are left out, I stress. "Red Nikola Šubić Zrinski" is awarded to Croatian and foreign citizens for a heroic act in war, direct war danger and exceptional circumstances in peace. "Red bana Jelačića" is assigned to officials, officers, commanders of the Croatian Armed Forces for special military merits in its structure, development, extremely successful command of its troops. "Red Peter Zrinski and Fran Krsta Frankopan" with the golded player is awarded to Croatian and foreign citizens as an honorary sign of the eternal mention of the dead for the Croatian state in war, direct war danger or in exceptional circumstances in peace. "Red Peter Zrinski and Fran Krsta Frankopan" with a special player is assigned to Croatian and foreign citizens missing during the Homeland War. So this population of the most honorable people is covered by this award that certainly means a lot and a lasting memory brings back to the parents, children and wives of the dead. "Red Stjepan Radic" is assigned to Croatian and foreign citizens for credit and death in the fight for national and social rights. And it can be brought in for circumstances in the work. Red Croatian Cross is assigned to Croatian and foreign citizens for participation in the Homeland War if they were badly wounded. So, the population of Croatian military disabled persons is also decorated and decorated by all those for whom the industrious commanders and those who were supposed to take care of them and wrote suggestions they were also accepted because the Commissions of the Ministry of Defence and the Commission of the Chief Staff always thoroughly combed it, discussed it and decided that the president of the country would sign those medals. Order of the Croatian... It is granted to Croatian and foreign citizens for special merits for the Republic of Croatia acquired in work, direct war danger or exceptional circumstances in peace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] "The Memorial of the Homeland War", "The Memorial of Homeland Gratitude", so we have other confessions that have been established for wartime circumstances, probably some have not seen them yet. They are the "Croatian State Prize" also for merits in the Homeland War, medals that were established for "Blash"... and "Storm,"... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] for exceptional ventures, it has also been established. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone may have forgotten about her, but those who deserved her certainly do. But I would also like to say something about those gaps that my colleague Contromanovic probably mentioned but did not say to the end what officers they were. I have them here in a decision from the "Worship Vesnik" 60, which was lost by the simple decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesic, on 19 January 2000. Just because there are possibly those on those lists that were thought not to be received. So "Red Nikola Šubić Zrinski" did not then receive 35 senior officers and generals because they were abolished and Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, academics Vlatko Pavletic made that decision which... The duties of the president and those men have been lifted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one has ever corrected that mistake. First, we should correct those mistakes because this shouldn't have happened. Because it says in the law that these are reasons for taking or abolishing, or a simple decision which must be explained by the reasons which are that a criminal offence has been committed against the Republic of Croatia, or a criminal offence against human life. And so I think that we should correct those mistakes that aren't, maybe we should think about medals that would satisfy all those operations that were liberating characters in '91. years, as I've heard, and I know for one sure, it's... Bilogora, Papuk, Slunj, winter 1, winter 2, jump 1, jump 2, Maslinica, Medak pocket, these are operations that are not defined by these medals and should be thought about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it may be a noble idea, a respected colleague and rival Kotromanović, but at the wrong time and with the wrong explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25869	A few replicas. First Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25870	So I have to look back at what Mr. Djakic said, why didn't I go through some committee joint initiative? Because I've had bad experience with you, I've proposed Defense Day, I've called you, so let's say, we don't have a defense day, let's suggest it in some common form, I've called the associations, we'll sign together, let's be a joint project, two representatives, two different parties, you said that after 5, 6 hours you called and you said you couldn't do it, because probably Mrs. Kosor intervened. That's when I suggested an amendment to make it, to be somewhere I mean the day of the Vukovar fall, you made a completely different decision. I don't have a good experience, I'd love to, and now I'm begging you, we have a chance now, we have an idea that seems good to me now, let's go make some consensus, let's support the idea, so we'll fix my shortcomings if I have them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25871	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25872	Well, dear colleague, I can say that the ideas that come from your side, I would absolutely agree not to recognize in them that... a way of politics that springs from every idea that comes and that we could solve together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I always, before I say, bake first, and I want to say this time that your path of good intentions, as well as the road that is said to be, is a path filled with good intentions. So also in this case, I can say that every time something concrete is discussed together, politics is always done. If you had stayed alone today in your initiative, with your fellow MPs, if Mr. Vidovic hadn't interfered and politicised on the subject, I would certainly have been the one to conduct this debate differently today. I want to say that, to expect politics or to ignore it as coming from the ranks of those who showed their love for Croatian defenders, who left thousands of them without a pension, I believe that Mr Pandzic should hear what I'm saying, because he was an aberdeer of these events and that many times they cried to the mothers of the dead because they were left without those receipts that were assigned to them by the Law on Croatian defenders, as well as children, as well as widows, as well as disabled ones. Thousands of them have experienced your understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25873	Second replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25874	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Djakic touched me on this replica when he spoke about how, in fact, the Order of the Prince of Domagoj regulated the recognition of the heroes, I do not know all those who contributed to the defence of the Republic of Croatia. And when he talked about politics. So, the reason for my, now referring to the speech of fellow Djakic is that indeed this morning there was a lot of politics, one, one part, one segment was also the one referring to the gentleman general who is now being tried here in Zagreb, where in advance, I would say, condemned a man, and absolutely against it, therefore, until there is a verdict for anyone in this country he is and should be innocent to us. On the other hand, there were speeches, also by fellow Djakic, about how politicians couldn't possibly be heroes, i.e. they don't have a certain recognition and satisfaction to contribute to the Homeland War. So it is incomprehensible to go around and when the role of the late president of the state is spoken here, to bypass the role of the deceased, in this case the Minister of Defence, therefore, alive, now and among us health ministers, internal affairs, who are all in their own way heroes, because they have made difficult decisions in difficult times and as representatives who at that time made decisions, which were made by the present chairman, Vice-President of the Parliament here, because that politics had taken some other direction, then the question is whether these people would survive, not only to welcome Croatia as a free country. Let us remember Stjepan Radic, who was a great politician and who was killed in one parliament, and as such is a hero. Does this mean that all those who survived, and we know that there were direct attacks on both the Bane Courts and on the people who ran the politics there, therefore, survived the happiness and found out, so I would say that they carried out the work of Croatia's independent state that we have today. Therefore, all these people deserve absolute respect and they are also heroes, Croatian heroes. Here, so much so, in terms of this address of yours regarding politics and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25875	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25876	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's what I'd like to do is just to relate to the fact that these takeaways of distinction and recognition, given that it was also about them, some of them, people who wear them and probably didn't deserve them under quotes, as Mr. Cain mentioned, or I don't know, Mr. Vidovic, I would say that this is defined by the same law and it says loudly and clearly. Taking away the honours and recognitions of the President of the Republic may, on a proposal from the State Commission for the Design and Recognition of the Republic of Croatia, take away the distinction and recognition in the case referred to in Article 30(5) of this Act, and the proposal of the State Commission for the Awards and Recognition of the Republic of Croatia. Or, by its own decision, it will take away the distinction or recognition if the holder of the distinction and recognition of the proceedings against the legal order or moral merits of the Republic of Croatia. I think everything is defined and said. The explanation for everyone must be clear, unequivocal. And today there are legal norms to which anyone who has not earned it or has done something against the Republic of Croatia or against... The Republic of Croatia can be taken away, whether simply or through the state commission. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do all those who are constantly speculating about some generals who have acquired medals on the floor of quotes... How could they not have been in the forces, had they not been on the battlefield, had they not earned, why would they not have been taken away through this way? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, thank God we're a legal state, democratic, by applying the laws, all that can be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25877	And the next replica. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25878	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djakic, I think you've had a very good exposure. I have explained many things to myself with the reasons that you have given, and therefore I am particularly disappointed with two of your attitudes. One, I would like to ask you whether it is more important for this proposal to recognise to the heroes of the Homeland War what belongs to them or whether it is more important to Mr Vidovic that you disagree with and that is why you change your attitude towards the proposal. That's not acceptable to me. Your position is, on the other hand, that the award of "Red Prince Domagoj with a necklace" is identical to the proposal for the Hero of the Homeland War, which I can fully accept. So it's so unclear that you couldn't sit down with colleague Kotromanović who now offers cooperation and solve this issue with a possible addition of certain elements related to this distinction, we could get one too many solutions. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25879	Replication response. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25880	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would not agree that only Vidic's steps are a standard that makes me not in favour of this legal proposal. I have clearly and unequivocally said that this proposal does not make up the criteria and criteria, that it is not clearly presented what it will and in one, in a performance where it says the following: assessment of the situation and basic issues to be solved, it is talked about thousands of damaged who are not received or who should be heroes of the Homeland War. If it's thousands, we certainly can't set the criteria. If it's hundreds, then the criteria are very strong and really need to weigh them on the medical scale. I don't see them here in the proposal. And if they only died or died, as defined by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, we are also aware of what we are doing. I believe that my reasons are greater and better than Vidic's politics, than any, because I am aware of such division would bring new divisions among the defence population.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25881	Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25882	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here you go, a few words about this important initiative. The first thing I would like to say is it is an important and too serious topic in everything that has been said that it could be the subject of a political dispute between the leading political parties in the Croatian Parliament, so that it could be the subject of a political dispute between prominent MPs of the Homeland War. It can only be a joint initiative of all political parties in the Croatian Parliament then and only if there is a legitimate and reasoned need for it. And that's the main problem, that need in relation to the existing law today we haven't heard clearly enough. And for that reason, I believe it's no wonder that such an important and too serious topic has remained only at the level of the initiative of a parliamentary representative, because that is what the bill says. So, it is only possible to change the Bill of Features, as I said, by agreeing to all key political parties if there is a need for this, and therefore I believe that the initiatives of ad hoc individuals are a way that does not lead to real problem solving, if there is a problem and there are certain failures because there is no ideal implementation of any law, and indeed there can be and certainly are prominent defenders of the Homeland War, prominent heroes who are not recognized and therefore we can and we must make joint efforts to make mistakes, if there are and where there are, to remove them. However, one false feeling can be created here in the Croatian Parliament that all the issues of existing laws are not sufficiently regulated and that those who were the most responsible did not take care of it and what I want to say clearly, therefore I am discussing, that is not true. The decision to declare the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia on 10 March 1995, which recognises the heroic works of Croatian defenders. Signature: Supreme Commander and President of the Republic of Croatia Dr. Franjo Tudjman. Article 12, dear gentlemen, question and logic and consistency of logical thinking. Article 12 says, I ask the question, what is the person who received the excellent part of the quote of Article 12. "to show witnessd courage and heroism in war and direct war danger." Which is, therefore, the person who got the medal for the shown, witnessed courage and heroism in war and immediate danger rather than the hero of the Homeland War. And that's the logic. Thus, the existing law clearly recognizes the heroes of the Homeland War. This Regulation shall enter What is the person who gets or gets the medal for a heroic act in war and direct war danger? Well, I guess, dear gentlemen, the hero of the Homeland War. I don't think that's the most important thing. It's important that people like that are recognized and that these people get these medals and that's the real problem. And if there are these shortcomings, then the existing laws must be duly affirmed. What's the person who's given the medal for eternal memory, for the victim in the Homeland War, in direct danger. A whole series of such features exist in the existing law and these features, and this law has been awarded to Croatian defenders. All those who existed and participated in the Croatian Armed Forces system were responsible for their implementation by the ministers, the chief of staff, the commander and certainly the commander-in-chief, and most certainly the undisputed ones who earned the medals. And now what's important must also be commented. Which would mean introducing a new medal for the hero of the Homeland War. This means that you are contesting the qualities defined in Article 12 and Article 13 that are assigned for displayed, witnessed courage, heroism in war, in direct war danger. Well, that's a clean order compared to what exists in the existing law. One key question is, what was the real motive of the promoter? What the Proposer essentially wanted to achieve by introducing a new feature that is completely redundancies in relation to the existing system. A whole series of logical questions that follow from possible chaos that would arise if such an unnecessary feature were adopted in relation to existing qualities. Whether this is the form of revision of existing features will be asked many. What will one of the Croatian generals or General Gotovina, who has the honor of Prince Domagoj, for example, and will not get for various reasons the medals proposed here. Maybe the seller doesn't even know how complex and sensitive the subject is and has a very strong political context. Of course, when I talk about this subject, it is also important to remember individuals who are very often forgotten by the living. There was a word here about the 81st Guard Army, one of the most prominent troops in the Croatian Army that many do not know about. Many have forgotten and may never have heard of Renat Romic, who was commander of the 81st Guard War, as Djakic spoke. It was a unit that deserved every respect. And today, in his office here, he holds a special moment where he would start immediately from the key operations of the Croatian Army in the summer of '95, top of the mountain of Šatora, there he is, the hero of the Homeland War of Mr. Djakic, who was wounded in that space. Damir Tomljenović Gavran, we forgot this young man who impoteted me while he was alive. But not just him, but many others. I owe it to this occasion, to talk about it and to mention the people I personally commanded, who are heroes of the Homeland War, but they died very young and very early. Andrija Asudaak, hero of the Homeland War from Nustre. I remember he asked me to visit his wife and children on the island of Hvar. I said yes, come back in three days. He's only stayed on Hvar for one day, he's back. When I got to the field where he wasn't supposed to be, he was already dead there. Ivica Tomsic asked me to stay over Christmas '92/'93. one year in one position, or one place. I said no, you have to come back. Please, I can do two more days, 'cause my brother's coming. He died in two days. Jadranko Cumbay, the prominent hero of the Homeland War, is an anti-arming task force run by missile systems. He died on the last day of the Homeland War. Marko Babic, a hero from Vukovar. He walked, walked with us for years. We weren't aware. I won't talk anymore since I don't have time. There remains one key, important issue of guarantee if we also adopt this bill which, given everything that exists in the existing bill is unnecessary, raises the question that these guarantees that the new medal will be irrefutablely awarded today 15 years after, I agree the time distance is good. But the time distance at the same time means oblivion and means perhaps a coalition of those who didn't get it, which they wanted. Maybe now they're looking for an opportunity, the heroes of the Homeland War. And in the end, just one short letter I got from a respected friend, a comrade. “Dear friend!” quote: “These holidays I think a lot about our last dead comrade whom I have had the honor of meeting. It's hard to understand the mentality, ethics and spirit of a professional soldier. He was quiet, calm, focused, self-absorbed, murderous when needed most and honorable. He's gone without a lot of words. We need to recognize people like that. Such people deserve respect and I believe that we are the most important part of what we should have done. If there's a breach, let's do everything we can to make sure you miss as soon as possible. The affirmed existing medals that recognize the heroes of the Homeland War." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25883	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25884	Don't be angry, colleague Cosic, but this whole exposure of yours is a lot of contradiction. You're jumping into your own mouth. You first say this is too important a topic to be politicized on in this House, so we can get around this topic... And that man could totally agree with you and I agree with you here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we have a motion that calls for that deal that you're causing, that you're wishing for. He's asking you to make a deal. You reject him with an argument that would... Well, don't be angry, but it's a complete contradiction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, you say that this is a "hero of the Homeland War" medal unnecessary, and then you list your comrades, the people you commanded in the war, and one by one you call a hero. Now if they are heroes, I agree with you that they are heroes and I trust you, you commanded them, you know them, you know how they died. So what are you up against now and calling them heroes through that medal? That's another illogicality. Third illogicality. You say this medal exists, some other traits, such as Prince Domagoj, which actually means the hero of the Homeland War. And you know what's great for you? He's a symbolic gesture. Because someone has a prince named Domagoj, then they must go into law in Article 12(2) to see what the Domagoj Prince really is. And this is how everyone knows why he got it, because it's called "The Hero of the Homeland War". So it doesn't matter what it's called, it doesn't matter. And fourth illogicality. You say who now after 15 years will determine who needs to get who you don't need to get, and then you say a sentence later. The historical distance is enough. So it's easier from a historical distance to make a fairer decision than while the thing is still hot, while more happenings are in the field where it can be made easier. Four illogicalities in ten minutes of exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25885	So I'm going to answer you the same way, all you've said is a lot of contradictions and does not follow the consistency that follows and stems from the existing bill. I said unnecessary. He who gets the medal for the show, and bears witness to courage, heroism, in a war of immediate danger. Or whoever gets the medal for a heroic act in a war in direct war danger is a hero. What's it gonna be called? It doesn't matter. The important thing is, it's important that these people are recognized, that existing laws are affirmed, and we've had enough audits. And part of that review is what you're talking about. Forgetting 15 years later, some today for various reasons, political frustrations, collaboration with the media and so on, would declare past the institutions, past the headquarters, past those who know themselves and some other heroes of the Homeland War. I think it's all clear. This is just an expression of political need, not the real essential needs to identify those who played an honorable heroic role in the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25886	Thank you. I ask the representative and other MPs to refrain from taking away the word of themselves, but only when he gives it to them as chairman to take the word. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25887	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to start by saying that I'm a little surprised both by the length of the debate and by the way of the debate. I expected that the debate in this bill would be brief and that in this House very soon after the club's presentation, it would reach a consensus that this law would be missed in the second reading because it would not find anything controversial, significantly controversial. I expected that we would sooner throw ourselves on the rest of the agenda where we have the Law on profit tax, the Law on Contribution, the Law on Value Added Tax, all SDP's proposals. So the laws that have to solve the question of the lives of citizens, their standards that are seriously broken, we all know that. However, here, for two and a half hours now, it has been polluting itself with a legal proposal from Brigadier Kotromanovic. Proposer Brigadier Kotromanovic immediately initially said in his opening statement that he would like the debate on this to be deprived of politicisation, to offer sober arguments for and against. I have to say it's hard when I heard those words I was thinking, well, Ante, what could be the arguments against. What arguments may at all be against establishing a hero of that war in Croatia after a fair, defensive Homeland War. I wasn't surprised when I heard that these quack arguments are still coming out here. He called on Brigadier Kotromanovic and not to be divided into parliament, not to be semi-limised, unnecessary political, but then to listen to fellow Djakic, who attacks this SDP in one of the corrections of the wrong allegations that we defiled our defenders, that we humiliated them, that we did them not know what. So, in vain, Brigadier Kotromanovic calls for no politicisation because counterpart Djakic obviously couldn't help himself from politicizing. He couldn't. It's above him. Politics is here, even in a subject like this. What can be concluded? That nothing, but nothing that comes from the opposition order in this House can and will not be accepted regardless of the justification, regardless of the nobility, regardless of the need. Well, that's politicizing. Such a relationship with this subject is the worst form of politicization. Well arguments for, so I don't know if it makes any sense to cite them because they're just understandable. Well, look, every righteous war has its heroes. Each. After World War II, members of the Partisan units who fought against the occupiers, anti-quisling domestics, Ustashas, Chetniks and so on, those who were the most responsible. The National Hero Order was established. So is there anything more logical than that? Well, I don't think there's an army that won a fair defence war without having established a medal of heroes of that war. All armies except Croatian. Well, we're not going to claim now that only after that war do we have criminals, and we don't have heroes because that's how it turned out. The heroes won't. We have a thousand arguments, now I hear here, quasi arguments just so we don't have heroes of the Homeland War. So who are these heroes bothering? HDZ defends the dignity of the Homeland War. He always pointed that out. I have to admit he's defending him in a kind of weird way. A few years ago, a public vote was put on the street, on the coast of Split, solidarity with those who were later convicted as war criminals in Croatian courts. But now he refuses those who are not rightly condemned as war criminals and will not be because they did not commit crimes, because they honorably defended their country, now he will not give them the Order of the Hero of the Homeland War. That kind of defense of the dignity of the Homeland War, it's kind of weird to me. On the one hand, solidarity with various crimes and criminals is justly condemned, and on the other hand the refusal of an initiative like this. That's where you ask the question of criteria. As they won't, let's not accept the law because who's going to set the criteria now? So who has established criteria for all and these other features so far? So how come it wasn't a problem? At all, with these qualities and the award of these qualities, there was not always much happiness. They were founded when the state was established, right, and then, at the beginning, the late President Tudjman shared them, they were cartoons, and shovels were thrown out of the truck. In line, he probably shared them according to those values he appreciated most. He gave the most medals, and I think to myself, he appreciated himself the most. Then the most decorated General Zagorac, and then after that, Corrade. So what were the criteria? So why weren't we bothered by those criteria? But now you're asking the question of the criteria when it's going to be established, if there's anything more natural, anything more logical than that, it's going to establish the "hero of the Homeland War". You know, since some of the medals on their breasts are worn today, because some of the people whose activities we have to be more ashamed of than we're proud of. It would be good to establish a new medal. So today, from a historical distance when far less chance of making a mistake in the award of that distinction, we honor those who truly deserve it. Because some of the medals can't even pull back, they can only be active military faces. I can't even take it away. And they remain attached to the breasts of men whose war is not to honor either them or the homeland they allegedly defended. This one was never on the battlefield. He was at war in the cabinets and apparently with another intention than he was defending his country. So, I think that in... This law doesn't really need to be commented at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the only thing we can be surprised at, and we can be a little bit disgusted. To make you think to refuse something, to reject a bill like this, just because it comes from an agent belonging to the SDP club. who has an honorable history of war, who has been retired by the Croatian army and who obviously only remembers that these most responsible, bravest, most sacrificial are the righteous ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25888	Thank you. Three corrections, one replica. First respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So there are several allegations of fellow Stazic that need to be corrected. So, one basic I would say fundamental, so that no one is bothered by the heroes of the Homeland War or by what you say are heroes, and we have neither refused nor refused to exist or to recognize the heroes of the Homeland War, heroism and their contribution, but we have rejected a bill that we hold to be no good. So it's not systematic, it's not elaborate and it's not the way it's supposed to be. That's what this is about. On the other hand, when you said that Mr. President Tudjman was giving medals that were cartoons that gave shovels. So I have to ask you and correct the incorrect allegations, so I have to tell you who you are to valorize and blackmail President Tudjman's role and the time he's given the medal. Therefore, and yet his decision in time as it was, evaluate and caricature as a cartoon in shovels etc. So this is inadmissible and incorrect. Thank you very much. Because war crimes and war crimes are not the same. ... There's one thing one category that, internationally and every other right is one question, and it has a whole different meaning than a war crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a war crime can happen and it happened here on the Croatian side, but it wasn't a war crime planned and implemented systematically by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25890	This is now final, this part wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for warning Mr. Agents that in the end this was no correction. But, according to Article 209, even the beginning was not a correction to the incorrect assumption. In fact, the correction of an incorrect quote would have been if a colleague had said there were no cartoons. The trail was lying, there were no cartoons. The caricatures were and were seen in these cartoons as President Tudjman throws the shovels out of the truck. That's a perfectly accurate quote. Therefore, choose to take the Rules of Procedure, read the Rules of Procedure, study it, and the second time you correct the quote, correct it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or report for the replica if you have the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25892	Do not break the Rules of Procedure in this way. You claimed that President Tudjman shared the medals with his hand and hat and that it was a cartoon. Don't touch me, I know what I heard and what everyone heard. This was denied by MP Bagaric as an incorrect claim. He denied it as an incorrect claim. And it's very clear. And don't insult the Rules of Procedure. Next correction, Mr. Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25893	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I think it's not only incorrect, but it's extremely offensive what Mr. Stazic said, quote: "The late president was giving the shovels medals." It is an insult to all those who have been given credit for their contributions to the Homeland War. If anyone was right, it was the first Croatian president, commander-in-chief and the man most responsible for the defence and creation of the Croatian state. And secondly, there is clearly an existing bill. Read it and interpret it. Try to understand what's in it. If you don't find it politically appropriate then I understand your statement that you need new medals, clearly for some reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25894	And the third correction, Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25895	Thank you very much. It's not true what you said, I quote, it turns out that after this war, we only have criminals and criminals and not heroes. Do we have criminals they'll tell the judiciary, not you, if we have heroes we don't have and we won't have them but that's why we have heroes of the Homeland War. These heroes are the small people who fought with the rifle in the first place until President Tudjman who made it possible for them to do so by the organization of the Croatian State, so please state the exact and true facts in your speech. The second is incorrect that HDZ refuses to give orders to heroes. We don't refuse to give any orders, we consulted, and that's true, not what you said with the defense attorneys' associations, and they rejected your bill. I am the president of one such association and a member of two more and in all three places a bill like this has been rejected. So HDZ follows what the defenders want and not what you want with your politics, and we're proud of our heroes and our medals that we wear, and you can't understand it, it's clear to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25896	Replica Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25897	You're wondering why ruling won't let us have heroes. Well, that's quite clear, because beyond that, there would be a further difference to see who was really not only a hero what you say but the next question would be quite logical who was even a defense attorney and who didn't find himself on the list to draw all those rights that should belong exclusively to the defender. They're in pain, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25898	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25899	So now, which hurts them, which doesn't hurt their colleagues, Anticevic-Marinovic, I find it hard to say. I now don't understand why some defense associations have rejected this bill because he is now explained to us by fellow Hebrang, it's because he is the head of one such association and a member of others. So it's perfectly logical that these associations have rejected this bill. After this rejection of this bill, we will indeed not have in Croatia an order of heroes, heroes of the Homeland War. Unfortunately, only the rightful verdicts for war crimes committed will remain, and indeed, colleagues of Antičević-Marinovic will appear that the Croatian Army, as a result of the fair defence war, had several convictions for the crimes committed and no Homeland War hero, and this can be thanked by the HDZ Club and their way of defence of the Homeland War's dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25900	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25901	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the introduction, I must say that the adoption of the proposed law is not only seen as the introduction of a new distinction but rather as a regulation of an exceptional category of defenders, so one of the names of the "hero of the Homeland War" which as such will be recognizable. It is okay to say that fellow Djakic 29 medals have been established, the defenders have received them and I believe that, in the description of the reasons for each of these medals, there is a certain heroic act, there is a certain combat action and some character of the defender. Therefore, it does not need to be emphasized for each of these decorations, which is specific. But we all witness that the term "hero of the Homeland War" or sometimes even "hero of the Homeland War" is very often used in public, used in media at convenient times etc. But formally, at least in that kind of official part, he doesn't exist. It's hard to explain why this isn't regulated to date, so why this issue hasn't already been raised before, it's been kind of a procedure, and it's finally been regulated. I must say that according to what I have been able to read and communicate that there is a public interest, therefore the public's interest in establishing such a thing. There's an interest in the association. I respect fellow Hebrang that he has one piece of information, but if you type on the Internet and we all use the Internet concept of a hero of the Homeland War, you will see a series of blogs and manifestations and opinions, and interpretations of a number of defense associations that in these things I would even say undivided. Obviously, there was insufficient interest and according to these previous discussions in the ruling party he does not exist today. I have to say, I haven't heard any rational reason, any reason why he doesn't exist. However, the notion of nationality can be unique to anyone, so it can be subjective. As far as the public is concerned, she is strongly sensitized on this issue. Also today, if you were to ask the citizens of Croatia on the street in a simple survey whether a category of defenders called "the heroes of the Homeland War" should be formally established in Croatia and given them appropriate medals, the vast majority would answer yes. As for defenders gathered at the association, I have already said that what at least I have been able to read and communicate with colleagues from defense associations so far has been many times back in particular ten years and many conversations and a large number of polemics and newspaper statements, and the obviouss of representatives who have spoken of it as being something that is natural and should be done. For example, in the middle of last year, the Association of Defence, Disabilities and widows of the Homeland War Podravka conducted a telephone survey involving 5 hundred defenders of most of the members of the Associations of Homeland War from 15 Croatian cities and places. The poll showed that about 82% of defenders were dissatisfied that no one in Croatia was officially declared a hero of the Homeland War. In 2005, the Association of Croatian Volunteers of the Homeland War asked for legislation to be passed on the declaration of worthy Croatian defenders or heroes of the Homeland War. It has been pointed out that ten years after the Liberation Action "The Storm" is finally the time for the Parliament and the Croatian public to support the adoption of such a law. It was also pointed to the fact that a large number of defenders have a medal from the Homeland War, but the need to be above these qualities should be raised by people who created Croatian defenses, who brought forth the Homeland War with their exceptional actions, and in particular, Croatian volunteers. The Association of Croatian Veterans of the Homeland War, within its little concept, even gives a definition that says that, to quote, war hero or hero of the Homeland War, is a member of a war group and a unit that has shown exceptional war art, courage and solidarity, has achieved a remarkable war effect and unanimity recognition of members of its unit. So why define something if it is not regulated and legally promoted in the field of these merits of war through the assignment of an appropriate special distinction and special category. And the profession, therefore, historians who are engaged, primarily in the Homeland War, agree on the need for official emphasis on special heroic activities during wartime events and particularly actors of such activities, therefore, on the hero of the Homeland War. I must say, for me, it is of course unquestionable to introduce a new kind of medal that no one has ever received. And I'd say a new category of defense attorneys, which is exactly the heroes of the Homeland War. The criteria that we've heard a lot of things about here, of course, are that they have to, should be very strict. They should not only cover some kind of war history, not only should they include data on the combat activity of a person who, in such a one, is running for such an honor, but also should include the character of the same person who is shown in these difficult moments in the Homeland War. When you look at, say, the United States, their medals... An officer who's there from the civil war, therefore, has more emphasis on this attitude towards people, not so much on the exclusive military ability, that we don't say that in a certain way it's reserved for soldiers who in direct war events, so on the battlefields have confirmed both their military knowledge and confirmed and their exceptional, exceptional character state in which they acted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And a few things, what locally, we all know that about Vukovar is a lot written, that about Vukovar and the events during its destruction, about the people who fought in Vukovar and about the heroism of these Vukovar fighters, a lot of things and it's recorded and it's being emphasized every day. A whole series of materials, documentary, promotional, etc. has been issued. I have a CD here that's here, I'm getting circumstances here in Zagreb, it's called Vukovar in '91. The last sentence that describes this DVD says: "The courage and sacrifice for which Vukovar defenders earned a special place in Croatian history and Vukovar the epithet of the city of heroes.". I'm more prone to tell the city of heroes. For the city as a city is made up of men who fought in it, and in Vukovar. Those men who fought. Therefore, many times this expression of hero is used, but we do not see a valid reason why this would not be done with one law, and this law is good because it is short, summed up, what fellow Kotromanovic would say, militaryly clear and speaks of what should be done. I don't think we should be divided here. I'll be honest and happy to support him. And one thing I have to say is, I find it terribly strange that I have some kind of suspicion about the institutions of society, including the defense associations and all the defenders when we talk about who's going to set the criteria, who's going to decide who's going to give the green light, or I don't know how everything's talked about, who's the hero, who's not. The defenders know that, I've heard a dozen names in the debate here today that I know of, and that you ask people on the street, not just MPs, everyone will mention, General Blago Zadru, everyone will mention Mark Babic, etc., etc., the late Dr. Juraj Njavru etc. So I'm going to stay at the Vukovar section. Therefore, I support this law and it would be good for us all to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25902	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25903	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague, I don't think there should be a problem here in this assembly about whether the name hero or hero will be used, since the hero has nothing to do with those folk heroes who were also heroes, but it has nothing to do with socialism, communism, etc., and yet this name is repeated in a series of inscriptions, in a series of newspaper articles, conversations, and the city of Vukovar itself is a hero city. He's never been declared a hero city. But obviously in this House it is also necessary to reach a consensus that this particular issue and this particular medal that Croatia does not have and which the Homeland War does not have should have reached consensus. But I, too, would also show this opportunity the need to finally resolve the issue of members of the people's protection that have not yet resolved their status. Those tequilas or couriers, as they were called, not Boška Buhe but all those who participated, were carrying calls during and arming and forming troops, Croatian troops. He also pointed to the problem of all those who suffered and civilian victims of the Homeland War, as well as those workers who were in the trenches and after leaving the trenches ended up at the Bureau as a product of conversion and privatisation. So, only for this name is a hero who is understood both in the world and in Europe and in Croatia and who has become an integral part of the Croatian language.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25904	Replication response, Mr. Representative Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25905	Thank you, dear colleague Vinkovic, I was somewhere in the second, third sentence told by a hero of the Homeland War or a hero of the Homeland War, but I don't care. Although most of the material I mentioned here in terms of DVD, in terms of articles, in terms of literature is seriously treated by the name hero. I don't mind. But what you've given in the second part of your replica is an emphasis on the issue of consensus. Someone here told me before about these issues we shouldn't argue, by the way, that this is a bill in the first reading. Therefore, this may be an opportunity, regardless of what we have discussed so far, for some things to prevail. As far as the name of a hero is concerned, it's just that remark. You know when you talk to the defense attorneys and you talk to them about names. They are aware of the power of those words, so they will easily single out a few names. That's where I think my colleague Kotromanovic on the board said it was about a hundred people. Would that be a hundred or just a dozen, about that one. But the first step in the sense of establishing such a single medal and a category like this should definitely be brought to show both the defenders that there exist among them and the people who stand out themselves and that they should be given adequate attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25906	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here we are today, colleagues and colleagues, today we have heard a lot in the debate both about and against. I don't think anyone... It would not have occurred to me in any parliamentary assembly since the Homeland War, from the beginning of the war to today that he would mind that Croatian defenders, a certain part of them have a name and that they get the monuments of the hero of the Homeland War. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] We called them "our late knights" all the time, and so did we. Because the people who got up naked in defense must have their heroes, when we know that over 20 grand gave them their lives. But in this way one day we can propose for all the dead and missing and then reduce it to a hundred, we cannot limit how many in the Republic of Croatia there are and if we pass the law as many heroes, each of you knows in his village, in his municipality, in his town, in one brigade as it is. But you know how many of our brigades were in the Homeland War and how many of them were from the early beginnings to the last military operation. The Croatian Democratic Community Club never disobeyed or voted against something that was in favour of both the Homeland War and all of our defenders who were then one day, one day. And to those who were one day we told them they were in the Homeland War. He also doesn't mind being said to be a hero. Only standards and ways not to hurt thousands, hundreds of families and families of our deceased defenders, in which way to get the right solutions, it is through this law not that it is almost impossible, but it is impossible. Here again in the end, we never were that we didn't support our defenders or 99, maybe 100% here are defenders, all of them are defenders, but we can't accept the law on our grades that would cause another additional pain to the families of those who would be left out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25908	Thank you. Final review, Proposer Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25909	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Parliamentarians. Here's today we've had a difficult debate, we've heard a lot of good things, and unfortunately we've heard a lot of things that don't look like this fellow here, and not a lot of MPs. Every week you've seen TV broadcasts on HTV "The Hero of the Homeland War". And it's one of the better documentary shows that I've seen plus what was done and recorded about Vukovar, also as a special show when people who survived Vukovar and war horrors in Vukovar talked about these events, these things during that time and that unfortunate situation at that time. You have seen, these people with how much emotion, with how much power, with how much love they say about what they've been through, what they've been through, and that these people are absolutely also, even though my intensity has been in this law exclusively to those people who have died, that they are also the same people who are the most responsible for the creation of the Republic of Croatia. I was trying to explain the motives not politicizing and I hate that word at all when someone says politicization. Everyone has the right to their views and opinions, so I should now tell my friend Djakic who is not there to say that every word of his is politicized. It doesn't make sense, so we do politics in the end. We have the right to our views and opinions so that I am not a supporter of such a way of communicating and disfellowshipping others immediately in such a way. I'm saying, I thought this was a human idea and I think now. I think we should separate those most responsible for the creation of the Croatian state. I've listed several of these people who unfortunately died, who are absolutely according to their moral habitat, definitely heroes of the Homeland War. Why don't we have them today? It's a different story now. I think it's never too late and that we can always, at any time, do a fair, good thing to the defenders. We're all for defenders, we all support our defenders, of course, and there's no doubt about it. I'd like to, I'd like to appeal to the MPs again, I said the same in the introduction that the law thread is good, neither is the best, it can always be fixed, there's an amendment. Well, the government is always and often, here we now have a law popularly called the cheerleader law, it's going to be the first reading. We have safe remarks, good and concrete proposals that we will propose to the law itself. We need the law as a law. I expected to hear, to see the amendment that will support this law so they'll say no to this thing, let's fix this thing, and not now say it can't be done, it's not good. I don't agree that would make it a division between defenders. We know perfectly clearly when, who and what time he died, in which way and unfortunately precisely because we generalized things we have 500 thousand defenders, we have things that we can open up today also wide debates. I once again ask the parliamentary deputies here, no matter what political option they belonged to, to support the bill's proposal, to change what is not well. I suggest again, maybe it wouldn't be bad for the Parliament to take over that initiative or the government to me is totally whatever. It's like a defense day just like we are. Here I have to say one way to steal an idea, even though it's not the best word for this House, but I have to say it. I suggest that the Parliament be the one to take matters into their own hands, who will define, who will do better, who will do better, who will make all our ideas volunteer inside and finally be satisfied, which is that to those people who have died and who absolutely deserve to be valued by those criteria, to give them that last thing, which is moral satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25910	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25911	Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 114, Proposer: Representative Ante Kotromanović. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: “The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia is not accepted.” Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 79 votes in favour and 41 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25912	- Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 248. The proposer of the law is the Government. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. Meanwhile, the government delivered an act on February 3rd, in fact withdrawing its emergency proposal, and this law, the bill, will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Local and Regional Self-Government, Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, he will share the time foreseen for the presentation of the applicant, Deputy Prime Minister Djurdja Adlesic, Justice Minister Ivan Šimonovic and State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic. Let's go in turn, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs, and thank you very much and very much. Here I will be pleased to remind you that we are actually discussing not fans because fans are not a problem, but about preventing riots in sports competitions started at 7 months last summer and that we have since then met five times with representatives of civil society fans, Croatian Football Federation, with experts who are particularly involved in subculture and in preventing violence, and we really needed their help. The last meeting we had on Monday came from a conclusion proposed by the government. I believe it is acceptable for all of you to discuss the law in two readings, but at one session. So, for the amendments to this law, the reason was neither UEFA's punishment nor an interview by a foreign prime minister, but indeed the facts that led us to the fact that the law must be changed. I'll give you some information. You may have heard or read some of them, but you will surely be worried when you hear that in the five years of the current law, 6429 people have been arrested by the police, 4217, and 324 people have been injured around the stadium, 54 police officers, 32 of which are seriously injured. That the riots damaged 38 people, 31 official vehicles of the MUP, 141 personal cars, 35 trams and 7 railway cars. Many of them said we didn't have any casualties. We were lucky. However, we cannot rely on happiness in these circumstances, but on quality laws. Croatian clubs have so far paid 750,000 euros in damages, not counting this last one, and football teams have so far paid about two million euros in fines. Let's try to calculate that these two million euros were used to build, rebuild and edit stadiums, or that money was spent on fans' education as results would be. And the last incidents of hooligans in Prague and Udine, unfortunately they followed the world's leading media, created a picture of Croatia that is not a real Croatian painting, and riots and hooliganism questioned and the safety of viewers in the stands. That's how their numbers fell visiblely. The long-term development of sports and sports clubs and the possibility of sport events attracting as many viewers as possible, especially children and families. So these are the reasons why we're going to change the law. You will see that part of course refers to an increase in sanctions, to new powers of police and directors, to the obligations of organisers, or to all persons involved in the sport competition, as well as effective measures that prevent the departure of persons prone to hooliganism abroad, as well as prevention programmes. Because it is certain that without good prevention, without working with young people, perhaps with those future generations it is not to expect good results. And you'll hear the ministry has really made quality measures that we will of course still develop, give them a final form, because we know that repression is not a solution and we don't want full prisons, we want full stands. Similarly, representatives of fan groups who do not seek milder penalties for those who break the law, for hooligans, have spoken, but are asking for them to be isolated and punished by them, and not by the whole group of cheerleaders, which I think they can say is our common goal. I think it is also a good time to discuss and pass such a law after the World Handball Championship has ended, where it has indeed shown what kind of citizens of Croatia can be fans. We showed what great cheerleading means, and I will also remind you of the “Snow Queen” when the world’s media spoke with admiration about fascinating cheerleading in Croatia. So we have to repeat, even though we know there are no ideal laws, that this law is not a law against fans. This is a law that seeks to prevent hooligans and their savagery. This law does not criminalise a group of citizens who want to go to stadiums, but it protects them from those who are savaged in stadiums. Therefore, a fan, a sports fan, has no reason to fear the application of this law, although it is often an attempt to create such an impression. It is forgotten that many passionate and longtime fans stopped coming to the stadiums precisely because of the savagery, because of the riots. And we want to separate exactly those who mess up from those who really want to watch the games. So the decision to discuss the law in 2 readings is a joint decision. I believe many of you are also acceptable. We will listen carefully to your debate, conduct further discussions with fans and experts between those two readings so that we can really have one quality law and that hooligans become the past. So there's no ideal law, but we don't want the lessons to be shared by UEFA if we can solve this problem ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25914	Thank you. Justice Minister Ivan Shimonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I would support Vice-President Adlesic in his efforts to clarify the purpose of passing this law. The name used during the debate of the Fans Act is misleading. This is before the law on the protection of sports and fans from those who abuse sports events to experience and thus endanger others and especially fans. As far as the judiciary is concerned, two newspapers are actually passed by this law. The first is new protective measures. With the punishment under the Law of Infringements and the possibility of pronunciation of measures, three new measures are introduced. They refer to the ban on attending competitions in the country under the obligation to report to police stations, i.e. the ban on attending with the obligation to actually stay at the station at the time of the match. Finally, the third measure relates to the ban on going to a match abroad, which is ensured by taking away a passport for a certain period, i.e. there is a obligation to report to a police station. Finally, in order for these measures to be swift and effective, the law provides for the presence of a wrongful judge on sports grounds if the sports facility has the right space. These are basically the new measures provided for in this proposal. I would just like to comment on something that was discussed during the debate, which is a matter of the constitutionality of these proposals. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees human rights and freedoms, the right to move within the country, the right to enter and exit the country, but under Article 32, these rights may be restricted by an exceptional law when necessary in order to protect certain essential social values, the protection of the legal order, health, rights and freedoms of others, or if there is a judicial decision in the legal procedure. This proposal fulfils the mentioned conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25916	Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25917	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So I would like to present a statement on this Amendment Law proposal and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbation with the comment of Commissioner Kotromanovic, who said this is the Law on Fans. Unfortunately, this colloking name of the law is too rooted in public and it objectively creates a problem and creates a bad climate in the adoption of this law because this is not a law on fans, but this is a law on people who, by breaking the law, are obstructing fans so that they can attend the games peacefully and cheer. I'll just tell you that in the last few months, even after the announcement of law-making, several incidents that the hooligans did in the Republic of Croatia, but also abroad, so we all witnessed together the rampage of the hooligans between the cheerleading groups at the underfooted national football league championship, then the shootout between Torcida and Bad blue boys on the highway at Sibenik, then the rampage of the cheerleading groups, or the hooligans in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina in Gabela and a series of other individual or joint incidents that took place in the Republic of Croatia. This law is not revolutionaryly repressive because we are just studying the experience of the 2003 law and the police's actions have made an effort to propose a few measures that need to be taken by a consistent system so that everyone whose sport and participation of different participants in sport is involved in making their contribution in order to finally make sports courts where athletes will, above all, face athletes, and those who follow the competition to be able to follow it in peace and security. I'm going to tell you just a few of the most important news that we have proposed to this law on amendments and amendments to the law to make your intention, intensity, above all, the Ministry of the Interior as the chief holder of this law. The Director shall be more clearly defined in Article 1. In fact, so far, there have been a lot of objections from the fan groups to the directors' behaviour and to the vague role and powers of the directors. That is why we have made it more clear that we can define and who can be the director and what are the powers, duties and rights of the directors. Then, more clearly, criminal acts for individual offences are defined and prescribed, and new forms of illegal conduct are extended. These new forms of illegal behavior are primarily masking faces with a cap, scarf or otherwise by persons who come, attend or return from sports competitions with the aim of concealing identity. There have been objections to this measure by cheerleading associations to make it impossible for fans to paint their faces in the color of the tricolour, but it is absolutely not an intensity because we here say it is punishable that masking is aimed at concealing their identity. These are situations where someone disguises themselves with a joke and then starts to rage on the stands and throw torches and cause other riots. The measure is directed against them. It is not directed against those who paint their faces in the colors of the Croatian tricolour. Then there is also a clearer limit on the concentration of alcohol with which visitors can come to the game. It was established within 0.5 grams of blood alcohol, as well as in the Road Safety Act. This is a measure that we are still thinking about reshaping, whether to suggest it in another way in order not to cause problems in its application, but I think we all agree together that we must prevent rioting in stadiums under the influence of alcohol. To this extent, if it goes in this form, we will discuss more, we will talk to the cheerleading associations, we will talk to prominent experts and will likely suffer a certain change in order to be applicable. We do not want to bring a restrictive measure that will only create and generate additional problems. Then there was also a precise stay and a stay in the theatre in the audience space for people who did not have tickets, because so far there have been cases of individual visitors trying to enter and enter without tickets. They thus created non-regulatory conditions in the stands, and these were very often the causes and violations of normal behaviour and conditions in sports stadiums. It is also better to define the time in which illegal behaviour can be achieved because we have seen that other than the illegal behaviours happening in the stadium itself and just before and after the end of the game and around the stadium that illegal behaviours occur very often and several hours before the start of the game, practically from the moment when hooligans start from their homes from different parts of Croatia to sports competitions and we wanted to sanction all the time when someone goes to the game and makes illegal acts. More qualitatively defined conditions for the performance of directors' tasks in such a way that all persons, other than licensed persons and security guards, must be trained to carry out the work of directors. That's what I mentioned earlier, we want to give not only rights and powers to the directors, but we want to ensure that these directors are trained, that they can really act correctly in stadiums, in accordance with the law, ensure order, not harass the viewers who come to watch the games peacefully. The obligation to set up a control and counting device at entrances to sports facilities shall be prescribed and the criteria to be adopted by the Sports Federation shall be complemented. This measure shall be adopted with a delayed start of application of 6 months because the purchase of these numbering devices requires a certain time. In fact, the cubes have to carry out public procurement procedures for the purchase of these devices, but we believe that when this measure starts to apply, it is one of the most effective in countering riots because so far there has been too often a huge difference between the number of visitors reported by clubs as organisers and the actual number of visitors at matches. This will certainly enable us to know precisely whether the organizers and sports clubs have accurately reported the number of tickets sold and whether the number they have reported is really in the stadium. The organizers of the sport competition shall also be obliged to obtain appropriate approval from the competent cities for the insurance of parking spaces. This also proved to be one of the problems and these were neural sites where frequent incidents occurred, and in this way we want to ensure that in the mass-visited matches organisers must also provide parking places for fans to arrive. The powers of police are more clearly defined, and it is prescribed to determine the presence of alcohol in the body, by measuring the quantity of alcohol, by exhaled air. In fact, this measure was necessary since we also prescribed blood alcohol levels allowing sport competitions to be present. It is also defined that police will propose to the organiser to suspend sports competition temporarily or permanently. So far, it has been possible to propose a decision by the organizer, or alliance, to end the sport competition. We believe that the police should also have the possibility if there is a serious disturbance in the safety of sports facilities and competitions that the police may also suggest that the organiser interrupt a permanent or temporary sports competition. And what may be most important in all of this is that three types of new safeguards are prescribed. I will not repeat them because of what Minister Shimonovic has already said. This is a good solution because the vast majority of criminal sanctions are prescribed by the Law of Infringements. We do not repeat them here because of the need for the law not to be exaggerated, but we have introduced these three types of safeguards that will be applied to the most serious offenders, again depending on the degree of the severity of law violations and violations of order and security at sports facilities and in sports competitions. It also defines the presence of a judge for violations as a separate obligation provided that the sports facility has the relevant premises for its work. This is the same obligation that will require certain activities of organizers and clubs. This obligation will apply when the conditions for its application are met, but this measure is also the best evidence that this law introduces not only obligations towards visitors to sports competitions, but must first of all make all participants, clubs, organizers and sports alliances responsible for ensuring peace and order in sport stadiums and all sports competitions. What is equally important is to delete Article 35 of the Law which was passed in 2003 because of the inability to implement it and to comply with the provisions of the Infringement Act. In fact, that provision was very vague and had just allowed the possibility of arbitration of police courts. We want to take this law to the minimum possible extent of the possibility of arbitration by the police, either by the judges. A provision on the police obligation to inform educational and higher education institutions about illegal behaviour is deleted, because this measure has not been shown to be effective, and we believe that it may cause too much harm to privacy, in particular underage visitors who eventually commit certain violations under this law or the Law of Infringements. Sanctions for the illegal conduct of sports competition organisers are united, with the differentiation of the prescribed penalties being carried out both in view of the bounds of this law and in view of the level of fines. The fines for certain violations have been increased and, as I said, there has been a differentiation given both their height and the bounds of this law. Penalties for easier and more serious infringements of natural persons shall be prescribed and differentiated, in order to comply with the amendments to Article 4 of this Act, which prescribes illegal behaviour. The name and content of the database run by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the current database of offenders and events in sports competitions in the name of the database of persons and events related to sports competitions is hereby changed. There were also questions in these discussions that we had with associations about the exchange of these data and delivery abroad. These data will also be collected, and used and delivered to others in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Privacy of Personal Data and we want to minimise the possibility of their abuse. However, here I would like to warn first of all those who have slowed down this measure that for years it has been a practice between European police that they share information about registered hooligans and that this is certainly based on the European acquis and Croatia will do the same in the same way, means delivering data on the most serious offenders, keeping strict accounts for not breaking any existing Croatian regulation. Here, I have tried to present to you the most important newspaper from this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions. I'm sure these are quality suggestions. We allow for the possibility that some solutions can be even better, so we have also accepted that this law goes into two readings and from the first reading to the passing of the law we will have several more discussions with virtually everyone who can give a smart comment, their opinion, the court or any experience in applying this law or complete on the regulation of this problem. We will listen in detail to your debate, and I am sure that for another reading we will have a good law that will be acceptable to those who want peace and order in the stadiums and who will primarily be enforceable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25918	Thank you. The committee's reporters? The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities Chairman of the Committee, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25919	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. At its 17th session of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruptions in Sports Competitions with the final proposal for the Law. We welcome the fact that the law now goes into two readings because we think there is still need for consultation. The Committee considered this law to be an interested working body, and it engulfs human rights directly. In the debate, full support is given to the need to pass the proposed law. It is estimated that, given the increasingly frequent riots and unacceptable behaviours in sports competitions, additional measures are inevitable to prevent them from being proposed by this law. However, it has been warned that the strengthening of repressive measures must be taken simultaneously, as the problem cannot be resolved on a longer-term basis only by repressive measures. And it emphasized that large clubs play a role, especially large clubs where there are more settlements where there are from transfers and from everything and more money. Let's not ignore the role of clubs as an expression of show business behind today's sport. And we should also define what sport is today, whether sport is as clean as it wants to be today and whether we are really here in the protection of sport against violence and in protecting that sport that is or better said that sport that should be. We're talking about the highest levels of this sport, we're talking about these kinds of competitions where it's far more show business, far more money than sports in the classical sense of that word. However, it has been pointed out that in this complex problem directly and indirectly involved, many social factors not only police or repressive apparatus are involved. So, the whole society has to be mobilized in this, but I'm primarily repeating it because it's repeated on the board, because it's often said on the board most of the clubs where there's money and football alliances, especially clubs. It is therefore stressed that inadmissible behaviours that cause material financial damage pose risks other than personal security, life and property of citizens result in the destruction of sports and other public objects, disrupting interethnic and interfaith relations by creating such enormous political damage, so that we can see that it has become a political problem, otherwise it would not be here by compromising the country's reputation in the world must respond in a timely and effective manner to the problem of all social factors involving the most representative of the state but also local authorities, all political parties and other factors responsible for the formation of public change. And the media, I'd add. We didn't write it here, but I'll do it again because it's said there, and the media. It is also pointed to an extremely significant role here in the media and in some cases their incomprehensible reaction to the phenomena that the public is witnessing with their intervention. It is also thought that giving explanations that can sometimes be heard that such phenomena in younger generations are a result, the result of war is not acceptable because the offenders are very often minors who were not even born at the time of the war and let us not forget that the problem of extreme and violent cheerleading and in Croatia is actually dating back to the mid-80s. It's not yesterday's thing. Such an explanation as it has been said to be completely denied and the fact that the outbursts of fan groups are not only directed towards members of other ethnic groups, although we have often witnessed and brutal confrontations between groupings from individual Croatian cities, and that is also traditional. In particular, it is pointed out that the proposed legislative changes neglected the role of sports clubs and sports alliances and that legislation should therefore be complemented by their obligations to implement non-violence promotion programmes and to combat socially unacceptable behaviour under the obligation to engage in such activities of fans' associations. Clubs and alliances should also have a legal obligation to allocate part of their income for such programmes and those among them who are punished by a domestic or international body for the violent or other kind of unacceptable behaviour of fans should have an obligation to further allocate for the same purpose at the level of the penalties imposed. The debate suggested that a time limit should be established in which sports facilities must be technically equipped in a manner established by law. In 2005, we passed the law, that there must be video surveillance and that there must be a machine to record cards. People don't sit in their seats at all, not today, nobody knows who's sitting in the stadium, who's entering the stadium. Only Maksimir is partially under video surveillance. Video surveillance doesn't exist at all in our stadiums. Therefore, it must be mandatory to introduce a time limit within which sports facilities must be technically equipped in a legally established manner, in order to be able to effectively implement measures to prevent riots in sport competitions. Those sports facilities which do not provide those conditions within the legal time limit must be and that is the penalty, excluded from use, from competition until the prescribed conditions are met. This proposal is explained by the fact that so far the laws have been prescribed such obligations, etc. Therefore, the following conclusion was reached unanimously: "It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruptions in Sports Competitions with the following amendment: Article 6. The final proposal for a law amending Article 16(1) shall be added to the new paragraphs 2 and 3 which reads as follows: Sports facilities in which first-line competitions are held shall be subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article, means video surveillance and maps, to be provided within one year of the entry into force of this Act.". The second paragraph: "If the sports facilities referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article do not provide for the prescribed conditions for a year, the ministry responsible for monitoring the implementation of this law will, by means of its act, prohibit their use for sports competitions until the conditions are met.". I assure you it's the only way to start having control over sports facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25920	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports? The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? I am opening a debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, esteemed members of the government, esteemed ladies and gentlemen. Cheerleading support is one of the most important components of sport, and cheerleading passion is also an important, important ingredient in cheerleading support. And that cheerleading passion is often escalating. The first major observed escalation procedures, fans' passions recorded half of the last century in South America, later and in Europe, especially in Great Britain. As this has taken place in greater proportions, their legal systems have gone into new legal frameworks which they have indeed, today it is visiblely prevented and completely eradicated such deviant behaviors, escalating fan passions. What do we see in Croatia today? Although some indicators do indeed speak and refer to savagery, it is generally very difficult to speak, but there are examples when it can be said that Croatia has truly beautiful fans, and it often shows. And she also showed in the world when, here only in France 10 years ago when 20, 30 thousand Croats were there, supported the Croatian football team, when last year there were 30 thousand at the European Championship in Vienna. We are the latest witnesses, the latest events at the World Cup handball games in Split and Zagreb, but also earlier in Tunisia, Athens, where our handball players followed several thousand people, several thousand fans always and almost never, without a single look. And it really turned out they know and love their clubs and their teams. But there are cases that worry. In particular, by analysing the data that we have and the stunning data that Vice-President Mrs Adlesic made that 6 thousand 429 people were detained. It seems to me that most of them were brought to football matches, we could actually call this amendment and the addition of the law and the amendment and addition of the law on preventing riots in football stadiums and not in sports competitions, because there's almost no problem with others at all. Today, because of these 6 thousand 429 detainees, I believe that there are not so many wrongdoers, but that very often they repeat the same. Yes, we heard the data of injured 324 persons, 54 police officers, damaged 38 buses, etc., which led to today sitting in football stadiums in Croatia alone, almost like that. Those most honest sports fans, and these are children, and parents with children, are not at all in Croatian football stadiums today. And when we see what viewer structure was in the Arena of Zagreb at handball games, we'll see that the cheerleading wasn't missing, that the cheerleading was even better and better than the football games, but that most of them were kids with their parents, complete families. Therefore, this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disorders in School Competitions should certainly be supported. Because he also has preventive characters in him, especially by analysis I've seen that he has quite a number of minors in this number of offenders. But we still need to keep in mind that it also contains sanctions and that making riot destroyers, rioters, hooligans, can only prevent punishment. England proved that, and today at football stadiums in England, we have games with 40, 50,000 viewers without any obstacles, but no one thinks to run into the field because they know what's ahead of them. Sports competition factors, of course infrastructures, stadiums, transports to the stadium, approaches, parking, comfort in the stadium, accompanying facilities, food and drinks offer, sanitary nodes and also competitors and insurance, but almost the most important factor are fans. Watchers and fans are a bit of a sport. Without fans, sport doesn't make any sense. And indeed, if, for example, you could just consider two of the best football teams in the world, Barcelona and Chelsea, if you were to play a few games with no viewers or in front of 1,000 viewers, then that football would look like a veteran, amateur football after six months. We, looking at our Maksimir, and in my neighborhood and 40 years of watching it, have been released at football matches of the Croatian League. Why? Well, first of all, because of the bad guy, but also because he looked better 40 years ago when I first saw him than today. He doesn't have conditions, so he doesn't even have real sports fans. Almost the whole world was disgusted by the actions of individuals from Croatian fans abroad, by Prague, Lebanon, Hungary, Malta, Austria and Slovenia and so on. Unfortunately, we must admit that they are not true fans. A fan loves, a fan gives support and a fan loves his club and his team. And it is known by love that there can be neither incident nor destruction of property nor entry into a fight. He only does it out of hate, and he who hates doesn't cheer. This new proposal for amending and supplementing the law also introduced newspapers that proved necessary, which is primarily the right to drink and to prevent competitions for those registered as offenders. Three types of new protective measures have been introduced to ban the presence of competitions. So far, offenders of serious infringements are placed under police supervision, and easier forms of violations must be reported to the police about their place of residence half an hour before the match or competition and two hours after the competition. A passport is also introduced during departure abroad. New powers are being introduced for police and directors, and what is most important, new organisers' obligations are being introduced. Because we can't hide from the practice so far that the organizers often didn't encourage, but the hideouts were events so far, because they allowed the introduction of banned objects, dangerous objects, alcoholic fans, and very often they paid tickets for those, let's call the fans, which may have gotten a few hundred viewers on the ground, but they lost maybe 10, 20 thousand viewers because of their actions. Therefore, it is certainly to support the introduction of new commitments, which will strengthen the responsibility of the organiser. Also, even greater sanctions are being imposed for repetitive illegal actions. I would use this opportunity to point out that Croatia is a real world miracle, because football bronze from France, handball gold and silver, water polo gold and silver, Blanca Vlasic, Ivanišević, Mario Ančić, Marin Cilic, Sanja Jovanovic, Duje Draganja, Filip Ude and others are really our pearls and they need support and they deserve viewers as true lovers of sport, and they do not deserve to be watched by those who do not belong to sports competitions. Amateur and professional sports, amateur and professional competitions should also be distinguished. Everywhere in the world professional sport is also an important economic activity, so these changes are necessary because of this approach to sport because the legal framework will help athletes and sports lovers enjoy in the environment that sport requires and deserves. This will be supported by, of course, the Sport Act and I believe in the transformations that occur in Croatian sport, but mostly by these amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25922	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25923	I would like to correct or supplement a quote from Mr. Maric. So, at the end of all the success of Croatian athletes he forgot to mention another very important sport in Croatia, which is basketball where we have Olympic silver from Barcelona, bronze from European championships and full halls this year without major riots. So, due to historical truth, I'm forced to correct this inaccuracies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25924	Now, there is no correction to the complement of oblivion. There are others who haven't mentioned top sports successes. In chess. Paralympic. In white, preferred. Now we're gonna break up and move on at 3:00. It is the Club of Representatives of HSLS-HSU, Mr. Representative Antun Korošec. At 14 o'clock at Janko Drašković's 15th session of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25925	We continue with the work of the Parliament. It's a club debate. On behalf of the HSLS Club, HSU, the esteemed representative Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25926	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, although few of us are, the subject is such that it really needs to be spoken of unequivocally, clearly and responsibly, and to say its positions and views because the public is extremely sensitized, the public expects us to do something and the public expects to move towards better in this evil that happens not only in sports competitions but before and after these competitions. Therefore, allow me immediately to say that the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU supports the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions. And in doing so, we want to determine the facts behind which we stand entirely. One of those facts is the next. I think that we need to make it clear and realize that so far, the provisions of the current law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions have not been applied fully, and by applying the current law so far and still still in force today, it is clear that more order could be introduced in sports competitions as well as in sanctioning improper behaviour, riots and violence both before, both during and after the sport competition. I also think that we will all agree in both the fact and the assessment that there must be order in sports competitions and there is no justification for violence and disorder. We also have to agree with the fact that these dangerous and unacceptable behaviours cause material and financial damage, endanger personal security, lives and property of citizens, destroy sports and other public facilities, disrupt interethnic and interfaith relations, create enormous political damage and compromise Croatia's reputation in the world. This kind of destructive and inappropriate behavior actually contains a single absurdity. Cities and states, absurds are made up of the following, cities and states pay for clubs, and in return they get spit, insult, disorder and attachmentism. I think it's extremely important to admit that these riots today have the character of mass. And I don't think we should fool ourselves and say that it's a five or six misdemeanor, what's happening today is a mass phenomenon. This hooliganism today actually often plays a role in sports as an extended means of war mentality with inappropriate metrics, chugging and national hatred. We also believe in the HSLS and HSU club that the fact is and it is actually worrying that the fan groups are excellently organized and we must not allow rioters to be better organized than the state. We have to admit that today fans and hooligans are in their ranks, well equipped, they're beautifully designed, they prey. It should also be made public that fans' associations have created clubs and for the behaviour of fans' associations and also the behaviour of hooligans in these associations clubs must bear responsibility. I believe that today, more than ever before, it is an extremely strong message that hooliganism, misdemeanors and wrongdoers have no support. I get the feeling that bad guys, hooligans in cheerleading lines think they're right and that they're actually doing what most people support. That feeling and the attitude of the wrongdoer must certainly be quickly and efficiently challenged. And that's why it has to be made clear, it has to react immediately and it has to be sent a message, that they're wrong, and that this kind of behavior has to be sanctioned. This must be done by all, clearly without delay, decided by their sincere stand, who are ready and able to carry out and condemn such behavior. But that attitude, condemnation of such behaviour and that message must be given to the public by politicians and political parties, must be given by journalists, civil society associations, schools, clubs and fans' associations and sports alliances. They have to give to the needy and well-deserved athletes, but they have to give both parents and family. What is often said that police may be guilty of something, therefore, to think that it is only a police problem and repression is completely wrong. Police cannot and must not be the only and leading actor to prevent riots on sports grounds. That is why we support and welcome the new measures provided for in these amendments to the law, which are going to prevent cheerleading riots both in the country and abroad. We believe that any call for prolonging or for any longer delay in accepting the supplementation of this law and amending the law contributes to new riots, new incidents and unacceptable behaviours, and that this actually constitutes a concession to the hooligans. The proposal that this, to supplement this law go into two readings, is certainly good and good, because it will certainly enable the Proposer to make those solutions and those proposals that go to an effective solution to this problem to accept them, to respect them, to propose them in the final text, believing that it is time for this evil to end, because of all of us, both small municipalities and cities, as well as metropolis, large cities and states as a whole, we believe that in this session, we need to bring this law to an end, that we should insist on its application. And for this reason, the HSLS and HSU club supports the adoption of a bill on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25927	On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25928	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Vice President of the Government, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I'm glad this law was in the process. I'm going to talk about what I personally think this law should contain and not contain. And I'm going to say quite frankly that in some way this law is below my expectations. First of all, I think that with the sport competition, this law would have to stretch to some music events, so that it would not happen in the middle of a Zagreb or Pazin, for example, “Kill, kill a Serb, kill Janez, Cain, Mesic, etc. "I would like to congratulate our handball players on one fantastic success." Second place is clearly a great place. The cheerleading was relatively correct. Too bad it whistled in the French anthem, too bad there was a clear "Kill, kill a Serb" in Zadar!, too bad it was taking off the flag. But that's what politicians are for, isn't it? And what should be told this government to stop building these halls, including the handball home in Zagreb, and not to collapse. Just one little finding. The Zagreb arena cost 650 million kuna, and in the end with the repayment of the loan will cost a billion and 800 million kuna. Let's get serious, stop at the ball, and let's not throw ourselves at the money this country doesn't have anyway. Secondly, what happens in this country on football grounds can be called shame, especially when the Croatian national team plays. I don't mean the results of Bilic's guys who are great, I'm talking about results. I mean this cheerleading that's following those spectacles. I also think we should put an end to it. No one has the right to clearly insult, no one has the right to destroy, no one has the right to break, no one has the right to spread national, religious or no one has the right to hate and no one has the right to embarrass the Republic of Croatia. I'll say it one more time. The cheerleading at the handball championship or the world handball championship was said correctly except for these incidents I mentioned. However, what we will do in this country, which will be the government, which will be done by the Croatian police. He doesn't know. The Ministry of Sports or, like some people like to say, sports. What will the Deputy Prime Minister do when in one Maximus 10, 15, 20,000 people are running “Kill, kill a Serb!” or greeting “For Home Ready!” or “We Stand Up!” or “We Get Up!” etc. etc. One tribune greets "For Home" the other tribune answers "Ready". I'll say it very clearly, and this law should also be prescribed. If this happens again and happens in those first 45 minutes or other 45 minutes, Markovic, but in that case Bilic must withdraw his players. This should in some way be prescribed and fans must get a clear message, in such circumstances the match in the Republic of Croatia will not be played. They must know that they, which are fans, will be responsible for, for example, losing one or three points to the Croatian team. What's going on in our stadiums, in our halls, it hurts Croatia. It's a crime I claim to Croatia, it's a crime of common sense, it's a crime against our history. No one in this country has the right to rehabilitate that shameful NDH in football stadiums or halls. What else is the shame of the Republic of Croatia when 10, 20, 30000 people, say in Maksimir or at a concert, are running for home or killing this one, killing that one. Those who say the greeting “For Home Ready!” the old Croatian greetings are, at the very least, provoking. You don't want Croatia well. They want weak, poor, subdued Croatia and that, this message should be clearly sent to them unequivocally. It is fortunate that this English Prime Minister, Mr Brown, did not translate what it means to be ready for home!, that this corresponds to those messages “Sieg heil!” or to those or similar ones. It is fortunate that the English Prime Minister, Mr. Brown, only held on to that shameful racist cheerleading against some dark-roaded players. Nothing damaged Croatia as an uprising, like Pavelic, like NDH and Jasenovac, Gradiška Stara, songs about knights like one Jura and Bobana. Recently, gentlemen, we all found ourselves offended, I will say offended when this "State Council" of the Republic of Slovenia called the Croatian authorities for NDH. For God's sake, we haven't apologized, I don't know how to settle some war damage, etc. For God's sakes in our memory of our citizens, today lives the failed state. Indeed, the Slovenian “State Council ” has gone too far. They insulted us, humiliated us, and deserved to be told: “Wait, gentlemen, on one Sutjesces, on one Neretva the most injured Croats.” The truth is that, for example, what I know is that the other Istrian Partizan brigade or the Buzet brigade freed one Koper, although I would never say that the Slovenians would have looked at the sea 20 km away if there were no Croats because it simply did not correspond to the truth.../Jarnjak: Dear Representative!/... But how can we defend ourselves, Mr. Vice President, against such insults, if in our stadiums the crowds of people are running the killings, killing this one, or welcoming "For Home Ready". That's the essence of this whole story and this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25929	Your Honor, please stick to the subject and don't go to partisan again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25930	We're Mr. President, the chairman...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25931	We have a topic, please stay on the subject and talk about a law that's on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25932	I'm the only one, and I'm the only one who adheres to the provisions of this law. How can we defend ourselves against you? On the outside? What we need is simply to be warned by a Brown, to be ashamed of us in this way because in our stadiums 15 or 20,000 people are running the murder of this one or greeting “For Home Ready”. And those who have been given the mandate to lead this government do not respond in the way they would respond in any civilized country. Without installing that into the provisions of this law, this law will be incomplete. He's hypocritical and he just can't be complete. Someone here will say so in the first paragraph of Article 4 of this Article to the fifth point, namely the sixth, that an attempt to carry, carry and highlight banners, flags or other things with text, image, sign or other feature showing or fostering hatred or violence on the basis of racial, national, regional or religious origin or other belongings is considered clearly unacceptable as well as singing songs or dropping messages whose content shows or promotes hatred or violence based on racial, national, regional or religious origin or any other specificity, Article 4(1), paragraph 5, or 7 respectively. But it's my opinion that in that case this judgment is not enough to let go, I would only tell the police, only to the directors, but in such a case the decision that happens in that stadium should be left to the organizers of the meeting. Whether it is about the Croatian Football Federation, whether it is about the managers of some singers, whether it is, I don't know maybe about coaches, if normally we don't want the state of Croatia to suffer damage, then in such a way we need to act clearly unequivocally. If necessary, these people should also interrupt football or music meetings. Nothing else in this country when it comes to this law will bear fruit. Everything else will continue to lead, I would say embarrassing the Republic of Croatia and finally, and others will ask us how we are acting. In this, I think, what I was saying about the biggest problem of Croatian sport today is that some hooligans, in the right sense, are able to dare and shame the country with this inappropriate Scanding. Article 39, which speaks of these fines or sanctions, inter alia, in paragraph 1 of point 5, states that an attempt to enter or if someone enters, points out in a sports object a transparency, flag or other thing with features showing or inciting hatred or violence on the basis of racial, national, regional or religious origin or other specificities, will be fined by a fine of 1000 to 10 thousand kuna or a prison sentence of at least 3 days to a maximum of 30 days, a normal natural person, etc., etc. But there's no telling what's going to happen here when it's running in the way I tried to explain it for this pay phone. Without it, this law by my side will be, not a step forward, but a step back, but it may be that this is only one attempt to throw dust into the eyes, and we must indeed face at this point a serious problem which is largely damaging to the Republic of Croatia. The problem is clear, when we talk about this law and violence, but also what is even worse than the work, I would dare say these are the words that I mention, so let's stop at the end of the humiliation of the Republic of Croatia on these sports grounds, as well as at concerts, and realize that the "home-scanning" was at concerts or games one, I don't know what to call it, "fascisoidal" provocation, and not as one singer would say, an old Croatian greeting, and I'm sure that no authority in any world country could tolerate it. And who tolerates it? How in the world do these attempts be viewed? We've had a chance to read from this interview recently, Mr. Brown, etc., etc. In one word, our sports grounds can't be "resurrection" polygons. If that happens, and that happens often, the same lesson from the field coaches should pull our representatives, so let's see who loves Croatia. Do Croatia like those who cheer fairly, or those who do not root "home ready" from year to year, increasingly provoke, and I say, Croatia loves those who do not harm Croatia, who do not cheer "home ready", those who do, who just do not expect to live off some redistribution, those who do not drill their Croatian chests etc., etc. That's the point. Now the question is, how do you send these messages to the citizens? How do you explain that to them? It can only be explained to them, clearly, that we are talking about and that we clearly prescribe clear and unequivocal rules of conduct. Therefore, the end of the IDS Club certainly welcomes the intention of this law, but we believe that the proposed provisions are not sufficient at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25933	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25934	Since counterpart Cain said everything exactly, and one small mistake was being stolen, precisely because of the intelligence and accuracy of a speech like this, I have to intervene when he said that politicians, so when he talked about taking down flags in Zadar, then he said and the politicians were guilty. It's his fault, you know, whoever did it eventually doesn't run away from it. In this case, a single politician, the mayor. Well, then I ask that we make these differences ourselves, because often citizens say we're all the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25935	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Berislav Roncevic, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is entirely incorrect that the Croatian Government did not react to the occurrence of inappropriate behaviour in sports facilities shouting parols of unacceptable content. In the term of Dr. Sanader, the Croatian government has made it clear that the independent and sovereign Croatia was not created on any basis, but on the basis of patriotism, made a clear distinction from fascism, condemned fascism, made a distinction between anti-fascism and communism, and there are clear views of the Croatian Government. However, the Croatian government cannot conduct an organisation of sports competitions. Therefore, let us be clear whether the measures so far have been sufficient, and we are having a debate, but let us say that the Croatian Government has not responded to inappropriate events, that is completely false.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25937	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bero has corrected this inaccuracies, and I repeat, I repeat, I repeat it exactly as I did this morning. Comrade Cain, it is incorrect when you say what you say, and you said that the Croatian Government is not responding, and that Croatia does not like it either. Therefore, it is incorrect or so loved by Croatia. Why? Because it will enter the record as you said that the Croatian Government is not being rewarded by what is bad, and it is being built. She clearly said it was for antifascism, but she also said it wasn't for communism. Therefore, sometimes someone will review these records, and they will appeal to you and say that Damir Cain in the Parliament said that the Croatian government was not being fenced. Among other things, this law that we bring here today is the most effective means of introducing order and in a certain way protecting and separating what viewers are, etc. It's not like there's terror at the games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25939	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although most of the arguments have already been given here by colleagues, I must tell Mr. Caine who's gone a little bit into history to say that it's not true that all those who yelled "For Home" were criminals and fascists. That's quite a sure fact. So all those who were the word used those two words, and those two sentences were not fascists. And the other thing. ... every time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the other thing. I agree with you fellow yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25941	Correction, not consent, but correction. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25942	When Mr. Cain sometimes uses this word for Istria, the Istrians, then I might say so listen it's an Italian name, and that Italian name was done by fascists as well as the Istrians.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25943	Thank you. It's no longer a correction to an incorrect assumption. And we have yet another correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will mainly be this support for the corrections so far, because it refers to the same, and it is not without reason that we have all responded to one inaccuracies, or one inaccuracy and a finding that binds to the Croatian government and that we do not have our own position on this side. We have our own attitude and he's very clear. You don't have an attitude, Mr. Cain, because you're actually the one who discriminates. I'll be very easy on you in four eyes whenever he wants to explain your discrimination against Thompson or anyone else. Because it's your arbitrary attitude, not the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25945	Thank you. ... Your Honor, you have not corrected an incorrect statement. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] You have to correct the incorrect assumption. ... Don't throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. And on behalf of. This applies to you, too, the distinguished MPs, Ingrid Antičević, who you keep throwing away. Someone like you're a whisperer somewhere in the theater, and he's doing it more discreetly. And now respected Vice President Djurdja Adlesic on behalf of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, at one point, I thought I'd give up because the MPs Roncevic and Bagaric fixed the most important thing. At first, it's not true, and no one can pretend he didn't get it right. The government and the prime minister have manifested themselves every time to these phenomena. When you look at the law, then you'll understand that it's not just an interpretation, it's a fact written in the law. I'm sorry if the MP didn't read the law, and I'm going to visit you to the law of explicits writing exactly what you asked for. Article 8 when the non-legal behaviour of viewers has occurred in the event of a sports competition, the police will propose to the organiser that the sport competition be suspended temporarily or permanently. And now I'm going to remind you, I'm not going to read the whole article 4 but just the part that you didn't see or you didn't want to see, probably while you had a need to teach us some history. So it says that it's illegal behavior: "Try entering, entering, pointing out banners, flags or some other thing with a text picture, sign or other feature that shows either hate or violence based on racial, national, regional or religious belongings or other specificities. Then sing songs or throw out messages whose content shows or promotes hate or violence based on racial, national, regional or religious belongings or other specialities." It's completely clear. I only invite you, you have rightfully sought rigorous measures for those who embarrass Croatia like this. You can also propose amendments. But I call on both MPs and the courage to say what it is, to propose such amendments and to vote later on for us. When it came to local self-government or mayors, I was once at a game when we were called out and we didn't go out. However, it is quite interesting to see what was called. I am no longer sure whether this is about the Mayor of Zadar or the Mayor of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25947	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25948	Irregularity isn't what it is and it can't be, and then it's a correction and what you're saying orally, and what it says in the law. What it says can therefore be a tax letter of the law. It can only be forbidden behavior. Prosecution always has an element of prohibition and psychological relations. Therefore, all of these behaviors that are indicated do not have to be illegal if they are made by a person who cannot manage his or her willing actions. They obviously didn't know that in the government, so they made this kind of nebulise that doesn't exist in our legal system yet. Anti-law is therefore an element of normative and psychological relations. Therefore, one who is not responsible for his spell cannot be even though he formally did the shop she is not illegal. So much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25949	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25950	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Prime Minister. So here we have a topic that not only today but a significant time that is quite clear is a great deal of attention to the Croatian public. So here we've already had opportunities to hear about a lack of knowledge of violations of the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, security etc. So there is a wide range of issues and problems that arise with the frequent and frequent occurrence of riots in sports competitions. So it's obvious that it's not only that it's a security breach, that a bad picture is being created in the local public, but that what we've been saying lately is more and more witnesses, which is that we're exporting, that is, more and more of our hooligans, the wrongdoers are going to international to say the scene. However, I would like to warn here of another fact that seems to me that it is not in the law itself sufficiently apostrophe. Not only do we export hooligans, but what is very important to me and what is in a certain way a characteristic of hooliganism and unrest related to sports competitions, which is that since 2001, since the adoption of the now applicable and amended law is actually being transferred outside the sports fields. You haven't had a major incident at sports stadiums since 2001 at least the kind we've had before. Therefore, it certainly requires a broader and deeper analysis. I must first of all thank the government for trying to give this much importance to this law. Well, I don't know if we've ever had this many representatives of several ministries here in the Parliament. And I'd also like to thank and congratulate you on going in two readings. But there's something I don't understand. We got a government statement, I on my own behalf, or on behalf of the SDP club on Wednesday asked to go in two readings. The prime minister said that this is impossible because the law should take effect before the start of the football championship, i.e. on 20.2. when playing Hajduk and Dinamo in Split. Now, look, no matter what we had this in two or one reading at this session, so if it lasts until 13, I don't believe that since the law enters eight days after the publication in the People's Newspaper that it will be important to determine or determine the start of the football championship. But I'm interested in what happened to the government in those three days, which happened that the government had agreed to, say, whose address, whose deputy prime minister's initiative has been said we all agreed. We're here in the Parliament suggested it. Why wasn't a proposal or argument enough that was made here in the Parliament, but someone made a deal somewhere. We'd be happy to hear, at least to me what happened to go in two readings. But I'm saying, I'm glad we're going in two readings with that then actually my debate is going to be a little different. Since I have prepared a number of amendments, I will now remain more on principled remarks and then I will use some specific situations that seem to me to be done in this law. So, first and foremost thesis I think about which we will all agree I believe that in Croatia we all agree about it, which is that we should do everything to fight, reduce the minimum riots of fans during sports matches. But also to ensure that no human rights or civil liberties are violated. So, the story that went around making this law is another thing I'd also like to hear. So we have different interpretations or different statements regarding whether the cheerleading groups participated or did not participate. Why do I think it matters? Because if cheerleader groups aren't involved in the whole law-making story, there's less chance of getting quality law, or there's less chance of getting it properly implemented than if they weren't in that whole story. Since on several occasions we have heard one variant from fans, and the vice president mentions the ministry has won, it has not sent, etc. Because I've had a chance to see these reports or those attitudes of fan groups. They made me feel more restrictive or more strongly punished by any misdemeanor than the Government's proposal. Unfortunately, it seems to me that what could happen and what happened when the law was in force, which is that the law often did not apply to all the same. That's where I'm going to try to give a few examples. Unfortunately, also in part of these riots or in some way somewhere on the run was politics and some kind of political relationship. I don't know if I should remind you of the history of the riots between the cheerleading groups and within the cheerleading groups in Croatia. Extreme behavior, or worst events, occurred when politics decided that Dinamo would no longer be called Dinamo. And certain statements not only by politicians but also by these sports leaders also contribute to such an atmosphere. Why am I bringing this up? It seems to me that for the final proposal, we should have that whole in a certain way in front of us and the environment and what is happening in society. So that's where it was already mentioned. Here, let's say you've had this latest case. I am interested in whether the interior ministry will include, regardless of the immunity of Prime Minister Sanader, the database because it violated Article 4 of the applicable law. He consumed alcohol on sports grounds. ... No, I'm sorry. It's important to you. [[Speakers speaking out loud, doesn't understand.]] You have another case if it bothers you. You have the fact that a high-ranking football official burned a torch at football stadiums, he admitted it, paid the fine. My question is whether he's in the collection. That's very important. Now, obviously we have to have laws that are the same for everyone. Look, I don't know, I'm interested in interpreting whether alcohol and drinking are forbidden only for those who go in where most people go in or in vip boxes. That's very important. Or are you trying to tell me that the Mayor of Zadar has been mentioned here? I'm not sure the flag in Zadar would have been burned if he hadn't taken those flags off. He sent a certain signal. They wanted to admit it to me or not, gentlemen, it's kind of like that, because it's not something else to read. What I did expect from this law, and we didn't get that much mention of this English model, since there were a lot of words about it, since the vice president with the delegation, the then minister and the delegation were in London to see how all this worked out, we actually got quite the opposite of what the English model was starting with the name itself. Let's just say, I don't know if you know that English law is called the Law to prevent conflict in stadiums. It's actually very important to you, because if you prescribe the conditions that must and must be in the stadiums, then de facto by doing so, you've solved everything more or less. So there was this talk about cards, there was this talk about hats, etc. One banal question. How will you Croatian fans who go to a football game rain, not wear a hat? State Secretary Buconjic says those who have a drawing of a chess box on their faces that it will not be taken as a disguise. I mean, I'm interested in who's going to appreciate what a disguise is and what's not a disguise. That's where the hat and face are written. You'll have a chance to answer me. You see, when you have a problem with cards, we have this problem that our stadiums aren't arranged, not that they're not drawn stands, at least the big size of them and that it says, when you buy a ticket to write you a place. You're lucky if you get some stadiums and... where you can sit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now how is that going to be controlled? Actually, here's the point. One of the main, at least my objections and colleagues from the SDP with everyone talking to me, it seems to me that this law is not sufficiently talking about the responsibility and security of the organisers. Someone's going to say there now, so our terrains are the way they are, there's no money, etc., but at least this was an opportunity if I see that there are some conditions to make adjustments in a year. But be careful, it can be done I don't know, in four, five years to categorize sports facilities. I assure you, until we solve this problem, conditions and security on sports grounds, normally a school hall and Arena in Zagreb do not have the same conditions, but then should be put in different categories that we will not solve this problem. And I don't know that we won't have that many emergency exits, etc... And the same thing that seems very important to me, it says that football stadiums that have, therefore, conditions, or space when games are so-called. They have to have a criminal judge at high risk. So listen, I mean, what kind of legal provision is it must stand for me, all stadiums must have spaces for the wrongful judges, for a year or two, because then you will automatically avoid the story that in fact in Croatia a small number of fans are legally convicted. Look, as a citizen, I'm not interested in whether the police brought in 606,000 or 60 thousand fans, I'm interested in the information on how strongly they've been convicted, because that's the information to be handled. And we come to that crucial, actually crucial data also, which is, be careful, the question of justifiable or unwarranted doubt, we leave to me a very large area of discretion to the police that she can assess for herself whether anyone or whether a fan is therefore potential to say that to the hooligan. It's very difficult and very dangerous, and I think we're in a slippery area in connection with human rights violations. So that's what the police say, anyone who pleads as a fan can drink. Now, the question and vice presidents, you said this law doesn't talk about fans, I'm sorry, it's usually about fans. So if I put on a hat with a chess machine, I'm going to a game, and the police can drink me. No consideration, now, it doesn't say in what circle, if it's 500 meters, it's not, look out, and those are still questions that haven't been defined. Now, I want to know why we ran away from the English model, so here we go. Imagine dealings with the police, the criminal court, everyone, so the police have to bring in, so let's say if the criminal judge is in the field then, if he's not there then in the criminal court, etc., and then he has to report, so if he doesn't answer, then the police have to go to him, etc., etc., so he needs to take away his passport. And why didn't we simply say that the offenders of this law and all the laws that speak of public order and peace in football stadiums will be punished by 6 months or 180 days in prison. Well, then they don't have to answer, so they don't have to leave passports. How did England get rid of the cheerleader? Well, that's right, that's right. Because this is how a big space is left for doubt, so the simple question of power, the validity of a certain decision and judgment seems a little bit inconclusive. So, it's, and around the database, I'm a bit of a cartoon. You know, putting a suspect in a database and sending him to some neighboring country or not knowing which country in Europe that he's some kind of suspect, you're being cautiously accused and convicted by an offender, but some suspect, you know, he can have tomorrow when he comes to that country trouble, not as a sports fan, but as someone else, as a citizen. So, be careful, or tell me that wipeout from the database, for 10 years watch out, someone will, some suspect will fit in the data collection. So I'm curious when these suspects from that database will be deleted. I'm talking about suspects. Here, a team sooner that I'm convinced if someone initiates an investigation under this plan that it will fall before all courts. You know the British story. As far as keeping the suspect's DNA, the Strasbourg court said it was illegal. [[Intruder: Bring an end to the debate!]] Thank you very much. I'll still have to say something in person. [[Invader: Thank you!]] I prayed to these few, several questions, I think not only interests me but the wider Croatian public to hear the answers to them. [[You've reached out to an individual and you'll be there!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25951	Thank you. All I'd say is that the English fight the viewers rather than the hooligans. Because there are a lot of viewers today. Here, thank you. ... Yeah, yeah, nothing like that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have an announcement. In 15.46 minutes, it was time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. On behalf of the Government and the Proposer, Minister of State Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25952	Thank you very much, here, it's been hard to follow Mr. Lucin's remarks, so I apologize if I'm not precise in trying to give an answer. Your first question is why, suddenly, the government has agreed to a second reading and with whom the proposer, the Ministry of the Interior has held talks so far. So far, there have been 6 meetings with fans' associations in which representatives of the civil, non-governmental sector, representatives of the Croatian Helsinki Committee and some other NGOs and organisations have also performed in different roles. In a conversation with representatives of fans' associations and then even some other people from NGOs, we realized that there was a lack of understanding of this law and most of them mixed precautions and safeguard measures and that was one of their main objections to this law. At the last meeting, we explained to them that the difference between precautionary measures and safeguard measures was their main and maximum number of objections and objections. It is precisely because we believe that this law should be passed in the atmosphere of the exchange of arguments and proposing the best solutions, we have accepted a second reading because we absolutely accept that we can get quality, constructive proposals from the constituency benches that we will certainly adopt just as we have adopted in the Law on Private Detectives. Just to tell you the same thing in particular, I'll try to be as specific as possible, you called on that opening statement of mine where I said, of course, that we wouldn't punish ourselves if someone drew on their cheeks a chessboard in three colors because it's quite clear that they're going to punish the masking to cover up their identity. I hope no one will interpret the coloring of the cheek by concealing the identity. It's known what a cover-up identity is and how these hooligans do it. They're doing it by pushing the shilts, doing it to wrap up their jokes, doing it the way you know how they do it. Therefore, be assured that we will not abuse this provision in a way that punishes children for expressing their commitment to the club or especially to the team. You said we were down on the fans only. No, but we have imposed some measures against the hooligans, against the offenders, against those who behave unculturally and uncivilizedly and endanger the safety and comodity of true fans. And in addition to introducing several provisions concerning hooligans, we have also introduced Article 3(4) and other articles and obligations and other participants who participate in the organisation, preparation and conduct of sport competitions in any way. Here we also think of sports alliances and football clubs and associations of citizens who organise, participate and conduct sports competitions in any way. All we need to do is read the law and see that the law is consistent. It's not perfect, but it's consistent and we can still fix it. We did not go to punishment or threat of sanctions only for those who violate the law, individuals. That is why we are fully aware that this is a broader social problem, in solving which we must include all those who participate in it in any way. Why don't you punish the prison? It was the same question of fans why you're defending us from going to the game in a way that we have to report to the station. Let us do what we want, so when you find us at the game, and we have a protective measure, then punish us with a six-month prison. That would be one total disproportionateity between crime and punishment. Think about it. It was a proposal from fans who asked the same question. And now someone for being punished by some kind of protective measure for some kind of minor offense, we're not going to commit him to adhere to protective measures, but once he's in breach of protective measures, we're going to put him in jail for six months. It's not the right way to solve a problem. We need to make responsible individuals for their behavior, not put them in jail and charge them anyway full of prisons for the people who broke the law this or the law of violation. Penalty is a very serious punishment and it is even very questionable because all other penalties are prescribed, above all the penalties of the law by law, and not by this law. Also, the answer, you asked for some other sanctions. The other sanctions are prescribed by the Criminal Law, and this is what we have clearly explained here in this law that we did not want to transpose the provisions of the Criminal Law into this law, but we have listed only measures which are not mentioned in the law and we have also cited sanctions for those measures prescribed as specific to this law. As regards the database, it is clearly stated on whom the databases are kept, that they can be drawn up and constructed only in accordance with the Privacy Policy, and the exchange of data is also prescribed by international agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia with the EUPOL and other organisations which precisely prescribed the way and procedure for the protection of the confidentiality of such data and the possibility of abuse due to violations of human rights. Here, I tried to answer as much as possible, yet to tell you because they were also wondering about the measures that were said. So far, 111 enforcement measures have been imposed, banning certain sports competitions and 179 precautionary measures, banning attending certain sports competitions. For one. The Croatian Football League has been given 252 protective measures, for Croatia's national football team 133 protection measures and these are those measures that were made from 15.7.2003 to 31 December 2008, meaning for all time from the date of the law's adoption until 31 December 2008. I once again draw your attention, we did not say that this is a perfect law, but we are convinced that this law, with certain repairs and improvements that we will surely come to and through the debate in the Assembly, will certainly provide an opportunity for the police, but also make it mandatory for everyone else to behave more responsibly and finally introduce order in sports competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25953	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25954	Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. When this High House adopted in July 2003 the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, all those who loved sports were satisfied and convinced that better times were coming when it came to sports competitions and that the escalation of violence that took place at sports events and about these events would finally be sanctioned. However, very quickly all those who believed in such things remained deeply disappointed because this law not only helped to solve this great sport, but even further escalation of riots and violence occurred, not only in domestic competitions, but also in sports events abroad when the Croatian team or Croatian clubs took part. Therefore, the amendments and additions of the Law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions were adopted in June 2006, with a more detailed mechanism for the implementation of safeguard measures, and the police also received greater powers, including the power to establish and manage a database of offenders and events in sports competitions. However, as we know, these new amendments and additions to the law did not allow for the effectiveness expected by the law, however, the situation further deteriorated and there was hardly any more important competition where... Cheerleading groups are prone to violence and misbehavior have not caused new riots despite all the necessary measures, including measures of caution, penalties and security and safeguards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just the information presented in this material that by 12 months 2008, police have reported more than 4,000 people for various forms of illegal behaviour, that several hundred people have been injured in fights, and that 54 police officers have been injured more easily or more seriously, as well as extensive material damage to property is saying enough that the law has not achieved its purpose and that there is simply something to be done. As we can see these days, we have also come to the conclusion that the British prime minister has also called Croatia, which, by the way, has enough problems in its house with fans. So, he called on Croatia to call for riots in sports stadiums and it is saddened that one statesman points out that it should prohibit the presence of an audience at football matches where the Croatian national team is hosting and that Croatia is not being punished enough for racist outbursts to which English player Emile Heskey was exposed while hosting and playing the English national team in Zagreb. Mr. Gordon Brown also points out that racism heard in Croatian stadiums is absolutely unacceptable and has done a lot of damage not only to football, but to Croatia as a whole as a state. It's all really hard to understand, and it's even harder to accept and admit that there's impotence. First of all, the failure of the rule of law and its authorities and bodies to make order when it comes to sports competitions and riots on them. And here, we have today come up with another amendment and addition of the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, which will, by the way, support the Club of HNS Representatives once again with great hope that the measures proposed on the one hand will facilitate the day-to-day work of the police in relation to the implementation of the safeguard and security measures ban and the presence of sports competitions. On the other hand, fans, or fan groups, will realize that we do not help sports or our clubs or our team in such a way. Indeed, the big question is whether it can expect to reduce the trend of illegal behaviour not only on sports facilities but also on what has become a common phenomenon that illegal behaviours occur outside sports facilities, i.e. on trips and on return from sports competitions. In this regard, we support new powers that police have through preventive action, but also stronger proactive action towards organised groups of fans, i.e. protection measures, as well as powers for police and directors that are significantly more rigorous than the present, as well as additional sanctions for offenders. One of the new powers for police and directors is certainly the right to alcohol abuse of people suspected of being under the influence of alcohol, and this measure can be implemented both on trips and on entering a sports facility, and to prevent an alcoholic from coming to a sports competition. The implementation of this measure could in practice be very controversial, could be misused and I am glad that the State Secretary also mentioned this issue as one of those that still needs to be discussed. Because I think that consistent application of this measure could bring about equating normal, benevolent fans who do not think about violence or any illegal behavior with those hooligan groups who are such behavior and the goal of coming to a sports competition. I think that there should be some other solutions that would not normally, a normal fan who drinks before a beer match, which thus achieves a level of alcoholism that can prevent him from entering a sports competition and equate with hooligans who are ready to fight or otherwise cause riots. In addition, these amendments and additions are proposed to prescribe three types of new protection measures to ban the presence of certain sports competitions both in the country and abroad. It is a ban on attending and certain sports competitions with the obligation to report to the police station, a ban on attending certain sports competitions with the obligation to stay at the police station, and a ban on going to certain competitions abroad with the mandatory withdrawal of the passport. These are measures that are not enough to prescribe, but to a full extent, to create conditions for their implementation. And I don't think at this point the existing conditions that they have primarily police stations are enough and appropriate to implement these measures if we want to be really effective and put these measures into practice. Then I think we should work urgently to create conditions for their application at police stations. Otherwise, there may be major problems, as these people who stay in police stations are people who are likely to pursue some kind of incident behavior in such places, and should also take into account the needs of such fans during their stay at the police station. Two hours before a certain sports competition and two hours after the end of the competition could be very difficult to put under direct police supervision at the competent police station especially for perpetrators of serious infringements prescribed by this law or for returnees. All in all, I point out once again that the Croatian People's Party's Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law, and you are once again hoping that the proposed amendments and additions will go towards preventing hooligans from being wronged in sports competitions. We also support an increase in sanctions, i.e. new powers of police and directors, as well as greater obligations of organizers and all other persons involved in the sport competition. But also with the observation that very sharp criteria must be set for the separation of real fans who go to the sports competition with the desire to support their club or their team from those who have a sport competition in the second plan and who by means of pyrotechnic means, weapons or other means tend to inflict injuries, i.e. creating riots and violence, masking their faces with a cap, scarf or otherwise concealing their identity. We would really like to see these changes and additions, especially through their consistent implementation by all competent authorities achieve a basic purpose, which is to eradicate the worst forms of illegal behaviour in sport competitions, i.e. Preventing hooligans from competing at sports facilities and in the narrow and wider zone of these facilities, until travel in the country and abroad, to continue to disrupt the already severely impaired reputation of the Republic of Croatia in Europe and the world when it comes to Croatian fans. And finally, I am sure that the vast majority of Croatian fans and sports friends condemn such behaviour and do not participate in them, and it turns out that hundreds or two hundred hooligans are harassing the entire country and embarrassing both Croatian clubs and Croatian national teams. And of course, we're rightfully wondering if it's possible that the state and the rule of law can't end this kind of behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25955	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorary Representative Ratko Gajica. Radin, please leave him.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25956	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Government Representatives. Here, my colleague Maric said fan passion and cheerleader support are an integral part of the sport and I am fully in agreement. And of course, in order for the whole thing to be poor in that segment without it. What we are talking about here is about the outpouring of various passions that are not acceptable, and we are witnesses, after all, and the proposal of this law comes from the outpouring of various passions, messages and behaviors that, as people and as a society, we cannot accept. Now, I'm going to bring here on behalf of the SDSS some attitudes in, say, a broader form because this is about first reading to be allowed, otherwise maybe I'd say otherwise that it's a different variant. I mean, at first, this isn't just a police question. I'll even say this, this isn't the primary police issue, and if we look at the whole thing through the efficiency of police and the mobilization of police forces, then I'm afraid we won't get a good result. The other thing in the introduction, it's, I'm fully aware, I think we all do, and we have to be aware, there's no quick and easy solution to solve this dubiosis. And this will take a while. There'll probably be a variety of fractures here, and those police, and those psychological ones. Let me, I'll make a few things out here as some kind of warning. First, it's a question of social atmosphere. All this is happening within the social atmosphere that either suits it or doesn't suit it or in some worse version, possibly represents a good soil that happens. Now, when it comes to the relationship of society to this problem, I will dare say that there seems to be a certain inflammatory focal point. There's a permanent disease that, now I see that we all see together because otherwise there wouldn't be a proposal for this law. Some people interpret the social atmosphere as a permission to manifest disorder and manifest something that is not acceptable. Not only can this be explained by hooliganism, overdrinking, dissatisfaction with results or other frustrations. It's all there, but it can't be explained just by that. By my impression, I dare say, there are a number of young people who think they're brave to say something that others also think. They act simply in the belief that speakers are some small or large majority. They think they're just brave, that only they're brave to say that some others have nothing against it. It's simply about interpreting these people, so on the side of these people, interpreting the atmosphere in which they live. At the end of the line, many social events, I won't say they give them the right, but many social events don't challenge them. They don't go against it. You're going to have sports events or we're going to have sporting events where you have performances at games where important people are sitting, public figures, people from feathers, people from the media are going to keep it quiet, you know, by the system, I don't see what I'm seeing. And in doing so, the sports commentator has qualified the entire atmosphere as magnificent. And I suppose each of you, as I have seen one of those segments. Starting with what I started here with, I understand the opportunism of reporters, I understand the housing of opportunism and media and politicians, but there is a limit. You know, there's some line that needs to be noticed that the thing is getting too much and someone has to say stop, that's not it. This law points to that, but this law is not the answer to the question that we need to repair the social atmosphere in this matter. So much for the social atmosphere. I'm not going to say it's a social atmosphere when it comes to the main problem, but we also have to detect problems that support what we don't want. The second thing I want to point out here is this is a matter of relationship to the law, according to legality, according to the respect of the law. Of course we are absolutely clear that, especially us here and many people, and certainly counts that most people in Croatia are starting from the fact that law, legality and respect of law is the main state goal and humane view, the main value in the Republic of Croatia. Young people don't always see it that way and on this issue, they don't always see it that way. Now, that didn't come overnight, of course. When we talk about legality, then we talk about establishing order and order, respecting man, maintaining values because we survive or do not survive as a society. However, adults, when it comes to legality in many situations, manifest something that is a discount, which is an exception, which is an excuse, which is a relativisation of what is called legality. You can tell that too. That's what young people see in the elderly. And so it forms in the head of a young man, so it forms a relationship to work, to education, to honesty, etc. And then it's no wonder that the ideal of a large number of young people is to get money, not to education, but to get money in the cheapest way. And it's no wonder now I'm all vulgar that America was discovered in the 20th century. The third thing I'm potentialing here as something that's the basis of, this is a question of social and pedagogical support. These people we detect as risk groups, they're left to groups, streets, themselves, challenges, self-discovery and not to go any further. And I'll tell you just one illustration, unfortunately I was a witness. Two six-year-olds with a knife in their hand pressed against the wall of a high school kid with a "Give Two Kuna" the thesis. I could reflect that on a number of families who are fortunately numerous children whom I cannot give social and pedagogical support. I'll be a little rude to say, I'm afraid where a large part of that population will end up. I'm scared. And we don't have adequate social and pedagogical support through school and through some other manifestations that will lead these people to realize that what we now detect as a problem must not be done. The fourth thing, I hope we change that attitude but we're public by now, no matter what is said here today, the government is determined according to this or that. This one or that government, this one or that body. Sports organizations, it's all kind of a political structure in terms of the role. We don't have a clear political stance, and that's unacceptable. It is a trait of acceptability, or unacceptable. And there's a lot of calculations. And that's why our public messages and our political, and our media very often are very ambiguous, very compromiser, and that's the one I was talking about earlier. I know that Mr. Buconjic and Minister Karamarko are making some kind of security assessment, then I guess they're mobilizing the police for this event around the hall, on the roads, along the highway, which I know where they don't and produce a terrible cost, and you'll have important people sitting in the hall who won't hear it and that reporter who's talking about an entirely different old one will come forward. And now we're getting to the fifth thing I'm saying here. I don't think the law, this bill puts a burden on or does not task sports clubs and organizations with obligations they have to carry out. More or less sporting events, clubs and events survive and operate on a commercial basis. So it's about money, it's about making money or not making money. It's about money and if it's about money the organizer is carrying, first of all, the organizer is responsible for what's going on there and for all the effects and positive and negative. And the organizer or owner of the club, or someone else who's in that vertical, the horizontals of whatever importance you want, must know that when you organize it, it carries multiple responsibilities for these effects as well. He can't do it alone, he's got to help him, but he can't spend all his money on the police, he can't buy cameras, he can't go through the vehicle, which means I know how to hold him in prison, he can't go over to the state budget. I'm afraid we're slightly less in the wrong direction in this regard. And now in conclusion, I'm going to say the next thing. We will, of course, support this law from the main position something must be done. Something has to be done. But I would love it if this responsibility was strengthened in relation to clubs, and we all got to know together that through education, that through the social atmosphere, through sending public messages, we have to give strong support to what is written in the law, without it going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25957	Thank you. Dear Zrinaka Kovacevic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, on behalf of the Croatian Government's promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25958	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I would also like to look back on the government's specific action on this issue. So, gradually we realize that we can't just do law enforcement work. It is an extremely important prevention, and especially the most important safe area of education. Thus, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports already implements a number of measures, i.e. it has a programme of education in the fight against violence in sport, in sports competitions and beyond. And we find it extremely important to work on future generations, so with a program where young people master what is the right way to cheer and socially acceptable behavior at sporting events. So we're bringing into that kindergarten age, and then into primary education, and then into secondary education. For example, through these measures, an impact is being made on the awareness of children of pre-school, primary and secondary age on the harmfulness of violence on sports grounds through the specific issue and distribution of educational CDs, posters, etc. through visual materials that are suitable for the smallest kindergarten age, but also impact on the consciousness of the entire public through the media which are also called by my predecessors. So, making TV videos, contributing to radio media, radio shows, and print media, so the way we can penetrate to as wide a population as possible. The implementation of the content aimed at affecting the development of children's and young people's awareness of non-violence and cultural cheerleading in sports competitions and the harmfulness of violent behaviour, of course, must be implemented in the annual plan and content programme in the form of teaching units of physical and health culture, sociology, class community hours depending on the age to which it operates. Encourage the creativity of children and young people through the promotion of non-violence and sports cheerleading where we introduce the award for best student art presentation where non-violence on sports grounds is propagated, promotion of non-violence by top athletes in sports competitions, so programmes for participation and association of famous athletes with children and young people in competition organised by the Croatian School Sports Union and other alliances since it is recognised that just top athletes are the strongest and most influential examples for young people and it is those who can act specifically on young generations. Then bonton behaviour in sports competitions again made it appropriate to grow up to which we want to, adopt a positive way of acting through the game and tasks appropriate to grow through educational workshops by professionals, sociologists and psychologists. Of course, with the education of the students themselves, it is also an extremely crucial education of teachers who are also conducted through the Education and Education Agency, which organises professional gatherings or book presentations in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, especially where a fan's subculture is developed. Organisations of international conferences on sports, translation and publication of foreign literature, then encouraging children to develop positive attitudes and how to organise fan groups through educational stands that take place, are ongoing throughout our beautiful, educational students of the Universal Sports School on cultural and fair cheerleading. Namely, as you know, we have universal sports schools in primary schools, they are now over 200 organised by the Croatian School Sports Federation and where they are also working on these educational measures. Then the creation of positive fan habits in children and young people, bringing up the school alliance is established by school fans' groups but the encouragement of both children and young people who have no interest in sports activities themselves to engage in sports through the establishment of school sports news sections. So these are some basic measures that have been developed and implemented in addition to the relevant Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the Croatian School and Sports Alliance and the Agency for Education and Education, so all relevant institutions that have to make their contribution that we do not only need to act at times when incidents happen but that we can create a young generation that knows what is the right cheer and how to cheer in the right sports way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25959	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. There are 20 reported. The first is Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar, saying today we're going to be working on this point for the rest of the day. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25960	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I believe you'll all agree with me that this law for the third time in a short time we have to bring in 95, 96% of the cases because of what's going on in football stadiums. Sports is a broad term but most of the problems, most of the riots, the biggest clashes are on football grounds. I believe that there is no one in this hall nor in Croatia who was ashamed when we looked at images from Malta, from Udin, Copra, Paris, Prague, Kranjska gora, Pohorje from the ski resort where groups or groups of people who have caused shame to the state, society, all of us. As for the football resort in Croatia, it seems to me that the lawn resort has moved to the stands. It's more like a theater on my lawn and the battlefield has become in the stands, and that's why football games go to a couple hundred people who risk having a lot of things happen to them. But for the credibility of the legislator of this bill, so for the government, I think it would be extremely useful and very good if Prime Minister Sanader and his colleague Roshin were to publish these photographs in the Croatian media or pay the fine of 10 thousand kuna themselves or apologize for the failure that happened to them. We're all flesh and blood and we can make a mistake, but when that mistake happens to us, we either have to punish ourselves or apologize to the public. Why do I say that? It is precisely the fact that viewers at the stadium are forbidden to consume alcohol and to come to a sports burden with more than 0.5 proms have said that we must not drink two beers but can drink in vip bars. We are responsible for the messages that we, as members of Parliament, government and politicians, send to the public. And it's inadmissible that the law applies to one and not to the other. And that's exactly the question of credibility of the proposer's intention. Secondly, I would like to point out that all the efforts made by the government and Mrs Adlesic as vice president and the Ministry of the Interior will not yield the desired results, will not win what we all want together. Why? Because the Croatian Football Federation and the First League Association are making fools of all of us. They act like the problem of rioting at football stadiums doesn't concern them, they're out of that movie, out of that story. The Football Federation and Mr. Markovic point to him whenever you ask him anything about it at the First League Association on Mr. Stimec. Mr. Stimac says it's not in our jurisdiction. The judicial organization is silent. And now the entire government, this House for the third time we are discussing what legal regulations to make order in football stadiums run by football clubs, competitions organised by the Croatian Football Federation that can't learn and understand the messages that the UEFA sent a few days ago to a football club. Why does UEFA know to punish a club whose fans cause riots? Why does UEFA know that Dinomo Football Club can't play one home and two guest games in the presence of their viewers? How is it that the Croatian Football Federation has not imposed any penalty on any football club where riots occurred by taking points, ban playing in front of viewers, forcing stadiums at least 300km or 500km from club headquarters? Nothing. And then what can happen? Because of these riots, UEFA clubs and FIFA sanction Croatia's football team. So it's inadmissible that football, therefore, sports alliances, in this case, the football alliance is acting as if this were none of their business. And for so long, while Mr. Markovic and Mr. Stimac are in charge of the alliance and association, and while the government, and the Olympic Committee, make them responsible for the situation, we will have nothing. And that is why I appeal to the addition of the Sport Act, where sports alliances must be declared responsible for sanctioning the organizers of sports events. It's not a proposal of this law, I know it, because I say the Law of Sports you must do and make sports alliances responsible. Furthermore, in the desire, and since this is the first reading, let me warn of some provisions of the law that certainly cannot be deliberately interpreted differently I go from Article 28. In the original article 28, he had two paragraphs. In the first paragraph, it is the authority of the police, if they consider that due to the illegal behaviour of viewers in the stadium or surrounding area, before the start of the sports event, the threat to the safety of viewers and competitions may be prohibited by holding the event. And in the second paragraph, it points to or gives the right to the police, if it so assesses, that even during the course of the sport competition, it may suggest to the organiser that the competition be terminated. So we added this article to the third paragraph two years ago, which the police are authorising if the organizer has not taken all the measures set out in Articles 5 and 6, that it will prohibit the maintenance of sports competitions, so it will prohibit them before the start. The difference between paragraphs 2 and 3 is that once he has to beg the organiser and the second time he will ban himself. Some of it's taller. Why would the police have to ask the organizer to ban it if she gave an assessment of the threat to viewers and participants? Then they'll ban it, not ask Markovic to ban it. And now the addition of Article 4 of the same article, therefore, paragraph 4, when there has been an illegal behaviour of viewers in a larger extent, will again propose a suspension of the event. If there has indeed been an illegal conduct in a greater extent, then the police should have the authority to order the organiser to stop it. But this is now a classic example, all the sports alliances in Europe and all the judicial organisations have given instructions, if there is any behaviour in the stands of viewers who are contrary to the rules that apply to this sport, a judge or a delegate will interrupt the event and no police or judiciary will have anything. Judge or delegate. And to me, therefore, that our football alliance and sports alliances function and act according to the alliances of their... Member in Europe and the world, these provisions should not be in law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Neither the judicial organisations, nor the first league associations, nor the football alliance want to apply the same rules that apply as soon as they cross the border. And if you will have such powers and you want to extend your powers to ask the organizer not to hold or interrupt, or you will have to apply the authority to ban the start or interrupt the sports competition, all the anger of those dissatisfactions will turn to the police and authorities. And you're just trying to protect someone from hooligans and savages. And these alliances that garner the money on the load and those viewers and even from the state budget will continue to sleep peacefully and whenever you ask Mr. Markovic about the situation in football, he starts to refer to what the football team has done so far since he was president. He doesn't know anything else, they just make a list. And for that I beg you, I am sorry that Mrs. Adlesic is not in the hall, she is the Deputy Prime Minister. Minister Primorac must understand and understand that he is in charge of the Sport Act and that, by supplementing the Sport Act, he must strike where the whole of Europe, the sports alliances and their associations that are in charge, responsible and the only ones that can make discipline within his sport. Why are there no similar problems or are they in a very small range in other sports? Because other alliances work differently. Because other alliances have the guts to punish and sanction those clubs that tickets free of charge to these hooligans and then say listen, it's not our fault. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25961	Thank you. We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Lesar, I agree with you, I'd just like to update your debate briefly. Article 32 states that the offender of the infringements prescribed by this law may impose a protective measure prohibiting him from going to certain sports competitions abroad with the mandatory withdrawal of his passport. I find this totally unacceptable because it does not comply with Article 32. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. However, even if the Constitution mentioned this fundamental human right, it would be morally unacceptable for people to take away passports for mostly minor crimes when this is not done in Croatia even in situations where people are being prosecuted for serious crimes. We have an example of Dr. Simic, who escaped to Bosnia and Herzegovina last year after giving an inadmissible verdict for taking bribes. And not only that, he will soon get a license to work in Sarajevo because the Croatian medical chamber renewed his license with an explanation that the verdict is not valid.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25963	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25964	You have well noticed one, strange provision in the article itself, the proposal of Article 32. But in that same article, I would warn and ask the Proposer to reconsider these three possible measures that the criminal court may impose and to define them more clearly, so it refers to the ban on attending certain sports competitions along with the announcement, and the presence with the police and the withdrawal of the passport. Which means certain sports competitions. If I make a mess at the match of the Dinam football club, does that ban apply to the Dinam matches in Zagreb and in Varazdin or only in Zagreb, or to all football games in Zagreb. It's just football games. If you understand me? Because if I've made a mess in a sports field, a stadium, that's why, Mr. Secretary of State, and I warn that I have, and I've heard from fans, brought together by a judge for violations. One was banned from Dinam matches in Zagreb, and another was banned from all Dinam matches in Croatia. If I made a mess at the sports stadium, then it doesn't matter if it was football, water polo, basketball or handball. It doesn't matter. She can't go anywhere. And this is all set, but nothing when applied. So think about whether you'll be clearer and more specific about knowing if you make one... If you once embarrass the club, the state and the fans, you'll never be able to do it anywhere again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what this is about. Let's not work gum on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25965	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. Thank you. There's no right to debate. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25966	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I would actually try a few sentences since this is the first reading of the amendment and the addition of the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. However, I am in a bit of a dilemma, and I am thinking about whether these amendments and additions will have concrete results or what anyone from the Government, as well as the vice president herself who is present here, will at all guarantee that, with these amendments and additions, this law will be strictly implemented in all its provisions, not just perhaps in some. Namely, the law was passed in mid-2003, and changes and additions were made in mid-2006. However, I do argue, whoever takes this law and reads it in the form in which it was adopted in 2003 that all the provisions of that law have been strictly applied since the very beginning and apply today, then we would probably be in a situation where we have less riots than we currently have. But you know, it seems to me that this law, and I'm afraid, and you deny me that these changes and additions that we're bringing are only in favor of us making laws like we're moving lanes, and then whether it's being applied or not, it doesn't matter. When it is seen that what the water says has reached the throat, then let's change, supplement the provisions of the law as if something were going to change. What there is neither in these amendments nor in the additions to the law, which is what these are additional obligations, which are sanctions increased in relation to those I personally hold almost and most responsible for what is happening to us at our primarily football stadiums and football competitions or events. It's sports clubs, it's their administrations, it's their alliance. That's what I'm interested in. And in this existing law, sports clubs and administrations had certain obligations, there were certain sanctions. Have any of these respected members of these boards or leadership clubs or the leadership of the alliance ever responded in any way except that we have witnessed all these years, and who tells me that there will be no different future, witnesses of the minorization of problems by these clubs, by those responsible persons in the administrations, but also in their alliances. I'm one, a small, tiny example I'm going to make, it happened recently, and it's at a time when it started to say a lot of things already when they were practically complicated these amendments and the additions to the law, you had the Croatian Chamber football championship in Zadar when we witnessed various unacceptable behaviors, racist behaviors, insults that went to the expense of certain players on the ground, torches that were lit in closed halls. And when it was the highlight of that torch, then the distinguished gentleman from the Football League said as if what we're making a problem, there was one, two torches in that hall, not even thrown on the ground. Here, that was his explanation. My colleagues and colleagues have already pointed out this particular problem before me, and I really think that if, according to their governments and alliances, we do not have a better situation with these amendments and additions to the law. When we talk about prevention programmes, Madam Vice President, you have just said in your opening explanation of this law that the present ministers and state secretary will speak specifically of prevention programmes. There were Minister Simonovic, the state secretary, Buconjic, who spoke on behalf of their two ministries. At the time, in that initial part, Minister Primorac had already left, the secretary of state said nothing at the time, and we are talking about preventive programmes. We've just heard from her about what's going on in the education and education system, but you know, it's not just what you wrote down and what you wrote down in your measures and programs. What are the effects and results of your actions and programs? I'm afraid when it comes to this kind of violence, it's about the same effects as when it comes to general violence among the young population, among minors. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the article of the law, I would say that this article is actually going on to embarrass our education system, which is the provision of Article 16 of these amendments and additions, which actually deletes that part of the provision from the law, where it has been foreseen so far that all minors, including police, who are involved in riots in sports competitions, are informed among other things by their educational institutions, primary or secondary schools or colleges. It is now deleted because in the explanation it says the police have found that it has absolutely no purpose at all. What do you say? Obviously, education institutions, high schools, or colleges, I guess with these police notices, I don't know what they've done, I don't know what they've done, but they've thrown those reports, or the indications that the police have in the trash can. That's the only way to explain it. So somewhere I think Madam Vice President that in this part, I personally think you should go the harshest measures against the wrongdoers, hooligans whether they do it in our stadiums, whether they do it anywhere out there. However, if at the same time at all levels, and I particularly apostrophe the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports does not play an adequate role, or in an adequate way there are measures and programmes that will go into the prevention of violent behaviour, but also those who will give results, then I fear that the repression itself will unfortunately not be too useful. So, here's maybe to another reading here somewhere I feel that this responsibility and some other ministries such as I repeat it to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports should be further absorbed, as I repeat the responsibility, i.e. the co-responsibility of clubs, their administrations and alliances for what's going on in the stadiums not only here with us, but also when they're visiting outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25967	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25968	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The problem of game riots is not simple and is not uniform, but even the problem of achieving human rights is not a banal problem. And here it is, however, a possible threat or a reduction of human rights, and for which objectives. We in the Croatian Parliament as if we constantly have normative optimism, so when the problem cannot be solved, we adopt a new law or change old ones and strengthen restrictive measures as the salvation of this society, and we all know that the problem cannot be solved only by restrictive measures. Cage can't be solved. And there's something else to point out before I try to talk about matter itself. She had long, long or long power in Croatia and even beat and raised to various cheerleading groups when it suits her. And when things get out of hand or out of control, drastic measures are introduced, even inappropriate for a generation or for the very essence of the problem. Let's start with a very important fact that says it's about the Fans Act, because the Secretary of State said it wasn't about the Fans Act. And Article 7 says the police are authorized to declare themselves a fan, not a criminal, not a misdemeanor of conduct or rules, but declared as a fan or wearing a cheerleading mark, etc. only for this reason shall measures be applied. No, no, no. Yeah, because it says here either-or not, and when it's read or-or, then it's enough one or the other, and when it's cumulated, it'll write and still make a violation of that and that. So when things like this are read, and this is how they have to be read, one would say that more confidence is often naive. But complete mistrust surely leads to misfortune and evil. Therefore, just because a fan has either put on a hat or had a glass of wine or brandy cannot account for God’s kindness, so other citizens are not responsible for it either. That's really how it's supposed to be, so let others read it. I'll quote it from the provision of Article 2 of the proposed law. I think it's obvious enough to read it here and see what it's all about right now. The illegal conduct within the meaning of this law is considered to possess or consume alcoholic beverages or intoxicating drugs, and the possession of pyrotechnic means, weapons and other means of death for carrying injury or creating disorder or violence. Therefore, only possession or consumption or-or illegal behaviour which is provided and punishable under Article 39 of this Act. Whether we're going to introduce it or not for fans as it is said here. If we want to, then I say publicly that no smart man will go to a game under this law, because it's possible to manipulate this law, it's possible to manipulate this law. So it's possible to abuse him and for other reasons catch a drunk or drunk or a man who said he was a fan and put a scarf and bring him in and keep him please. That means arresting him two hours before and two hours later. That's how much I know how to read the regulations so planned. I don't think that's what we want. Of course neither I nor any of you want to have game riots and no one smart goes to games when they expect it to be a mess, that they should punish those who commit violations. But punish those who make, not those who tried or intended to, and that's what they say here. The ones that are trying. The second thing I want to point out is the punishment for seizing the passport seven days before some game, because the person found himself in the database. He doesn't even have to cum, not even say he's going to go to the game, there doesn't have to be anything to do with the fans' intention to go to the game the police can take away his passport and hold him so I can say without the right to move, to freedom of movement. We don't have to assume what life can be. He doesn't have to prove to the police that he had no intention of going to any game but he can take away his passport because he's registered as a fan. He doesn't have to. He doesn't have to do this. That's not what we're gonna That's not how we're gonna do it. We want to punish anyone who makes a mess and makes it impossible for honest people to watch the game and enjoy it, any nature. But to enable the abuse of police, I can't raise my hand for that. There is no doubt about it here and that it should not at the same time be called upon by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to restrict the right of movement, freedom of movement of citizens and all in the Republic of Croatia, therefore not only citizens and all who come to Croatia for two reasons. From the security of the country, therefore, when it comes to the security of the country or when it comes to protecting the health of citizens. Two reasons are provided by the Constitution when restricting freedom of movement without criminal proceedings. Just two. So, when it comes to the security of the country or the health security of citizens. That's what the Constitution predicted. Of course, when a verdict is reached from a criminal case, but this isn't about it. If we talk about exposure or parole, or Article 2 says "try." Every legal one will say, one is an attempt at another is an execution. One is an attempt, another is an execution, and there must be an important difference when it comes to punishment and measures for such things. Something else that concerns me, given the possible manipulation or abuse of the law, is a record. If the MUP has a record of citizens who have pleaded as fans and registered as fans or fans, or as it is said, without being punished, by a powerful decision and giving such a data exchange in international proceedings, I think it really has exceeded the doubt of its own citizens. So, I repeat, each of us wants to prevent unrest at any sports events, we want to be present, enjoy the sport competition with the children of friends, etc., but we must also not accept that such a sensitive law is written in a way that can be misused. It is about human rights, and there is no bianco trust in anyone when it comes to human rights, but rather to write very precisely, to prescribe, and for every offence the administration and those who do so should be accountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25969	On behalf of the promoter, state secretary at the interior ministry, Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25970	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Lek for really speaking seriously and rationally about such a serious matter. I will immediately say that these very dilemmas of yours have tortured us as to how these things are solved in a way that makes society more efficient in the fight against hooliganism but not at the expense of fundamental human rights and freedoms. However, around these nomotechnical, and I would even say theoretical legal things, I must warn you that even in the law passed by the Government in 2003, meaning the original law, Article 25 was almost the same definition, we restructured it because we wanted to do it better. But only the law was in Article 25, which was passed by the government in the original 2003 law. Of course, it must not be an excuse for us to repeat our mistakes. And we're going to do a good review of these formulations whether they're right from the constitutional legal aspect, whether they can be better, and whether they're better quality, that they can fight hooliganism better without breaking the law. The same would be answered only to Mrs. Sobol, we also had this dilemma about eradicating this obligation to report to juvenile offenders welfare centres. We have received very serious remarks, objections, and I will not say the requirements of the competent youth protection institutions that we should delete this obligation because, according to their interpretation, it is a violation of the rights of minors as a very sensitive group, and because of what the State Secretary Kovacevic said, we believe that, from the earliest age, it should go to minors not to commit repression, it is not to mark them for acts that they do most often because of their maturity, because of their youth or other matters. Therefore, I warn you, we too have dilemmas about some of the solutions in this law, we will consider them well. And we will certainly try to offer those solutions that will pass any examination of the constitutional legal profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25971	Thank you. Honorable representative Goran Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President, State Secretary, Government Representatives. First of all, the riots in the stadiums are definitely a big social problem both in Europe and in us and no one is happy to see the wildlings in the stadiums, when they see the situations that took place in our team in Malta, when they see different songs singing, although all the soups would be happy that there is also one practice that is often punishable not only in sports competitions but also in other different concerts of incidents that occur, that when singing songs that associate with what the law says is impatience and intolerance that the police react in such situations. As far as this law is concerned, I must say that I agree with the evaluation of colleagues before me that restrictions can hardly solve the problem and that this law may be going a little too far in that direction. When I look at article 7 of this law, where it says that the police are authorized to declare themselves a fan and go to a sports competition, and with their behavior, it is reasonable to suspect that alcohol is influenced by that person, to determine whether he is under the influence of alcohol and to keep him for up to 2 hours behind the sports competition. I must say that last week in Zagreb there were such persons who knew how many, I don't know if the entire Zagreb Police Administration would have been enough for us to determine that amount of people because we were all fans of the Croatian national team and if anyone had had had a beer more or less, I don't know how it can be determined, or if we could even implement the law as such. Is it possible, then, in a situation where someone is walking a tram in the direction of the week towards the Arena, to see that a man has a joke of the Croatian team, to get to him a cop, to determine if he's under alcohol, and a man may not go to a game at all, to take him to a police station and stay up to 2 hours after the game? I don't think such a way of sanctioning, or such a prevention of insurance that there won't be any riot in stadiums or matches, was the intensity of this law. And ultimately, the law allows for this to be done. As for the provisions that are defined as criminal, or punishable people, I think that, as my colleague Leko mentioned before me, very little may be found by the people in the stadium who will not be found under one of these violations. We are all witnesses in Maksimir in the stadium that very rarely anyone sits on a map with them, or that it is rarely respected. So, according to that logic in Article 6 of this law, who does not sit on the map he has, he can automatically be punished on the spot with 1,000 to 10,000 kuna. I think, on the other hand, if he disguises his face with a hat, a scarf or another way, I think it's quite a broad interpretation. At this point we can say, here is winter in Croatia, a man can simply hug himself with a cheerleading joke because of the cold, and it can also be interpreted as being intended to hide his identity. So I think this way of describing these violations is quite wide and allows a lot, let's just say, sanctioning people who may not have had the intention at all to participate in some cheerleading riots, and in the end they can be punished with 1,000 to 10,000 kuna and enter that famous collection of data that later has to, means a week before the game to teach a passport, or report to a police station half an hour before the game and say where it will be 2 hours after the game. All these things I think until the second reading, and it's good that this law won't go now in the first reading as such, until the second reading needs to be discussed further because I think it can be interpreted quite extensively and that a lot of people who may not have been in the intention of doing any excesses can eventually end up sanctioned. After all, and on the spot. I see that the law stipulates that it must be allowed at the stadium to have the judge to impose fines on the scene and if he does not have someone 1000 kuna or to pay within a specified time limit, he is automatically ordered to be sentenced to prison for up to 3 days for up to 30 days. On the other hand, I absolutely think it's unconstitutional, or not in accordance with the Constitution to take away passports, determine someone's movement just in line with the game that's going on, I don't know somewhere abroad. What if someone has an urgent obligation, if they have scheduled treatment abroad and it matches the game that the club plays in Austria on that day or that week, and therefore a man will not be able to have a passport, he will not be able to perform the obligation he needs. I think, as my colleague Leko said, the Constitution clearly defines to what extent we can limit the movement of our citizens and that it is definitely not in the sense that this law defines it. On the other hand, I think a little bit, I wouldn't say funny, but a little illogically that in the preparation of this law when we talk about the limit rate under which someone was alcoholized from 0.5 in stadiums, I don't think it's, which means 0.5? It's some kind of border rate that's defined for driving a car. Well, you're not gonna say that whoever's 0.6 isn't communicable so you can follow the game in the stadium at all. I don't think this level of alcoholism can be compared to driving a car and watching a sports competition, it just can't be connected to one another. And on the other hand, I think that in the past few days we have also been an example, we have seen an example of one inconsistencies that in the matches of the Croatian team in Arena last week there was no alcohol, i.e. there was a lot of non-alcoholic drinks for all fans, but, of course, alcohol was poured without any problem in the ceremony, and I think we might ask ourselves a little bit about the consistency of those who propose these laws, and on the other hand, they follow the games with the tasting of the Enjigi and certain other wines. Yes, so that we might be a little bit more convincing if we had already started and passed this law and started to apply this law, that, as promoters and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we had not used the Ministers and could not taste these drinks during the match monitoring at the World Handball Championship. So here I expect from the promoter that until the second reading of this sanction and these violations try to work out a little bit, i.e. it is not so extensively possible to interpret them, and on the other hand, that these things that I don't think are constitutional, i.e. to limit the movement of Croatian citizens, to get out of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25973	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, he's the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to refer to one case that we are well aware of, which is the hosting of the Croatian team, Croatian fans and Croatian hooligans in Malta. I deliberately divided it into these three groups, because the fact is that if we remember correctly that one part of the hooligans embarrassed Croatia there, then as collateral damage, a large number of normal fans ended up in the Maltese criminal court. Those who had no money and no time to prove that they had simply sat down, so if they hadn't participated in the riots, they'd admitted to the crisis, so they wouldn't have stayed for seven or nine days in Malta, they wouldn't have had a hotel. These were recorded because some of them had problems following their entry into the European Union. While others who had time and money and had simply felt the need to defend themselves against the charges, they remained seven, eight, nine or ten days in Malta to defend themselves in this way. So similar things can happen with this wide application and interpretation of this law. So that's why I understand both my colleague Maras and my colleague Lek who talked about human rights because I'm certainly not sure that our courts and our police will be so subtle that just when there's a slightly bigger mess that determines who was sitting there didn't participate and who was involved. That is why I am pleased to see this law go to second reading and that the proposing representatives will consider it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25975	Your Honor, I didn't mean to interrupt. However, this is not a replica of the debate led by the esteemed representative Gordan Maras, for he did not speak of it at all. So I'd like to ask you another time to stick to the subject and talk about what I don't have to interrupt. Here's a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25976	I was told at the beginning I mentioned Malta, and Malta is one synonym for the shame of Croatian fans, who no one would mind that such people are sanctioned and harder, but you can't compare people who embarrass Croatia, celebrate various things that are not at all unique to Croatia or anything, from those who have no map and who sit in a place that is not their own and numbered. I don't think those two things are comparable or that the man who found himself drinking before the game himself that he's coming into a situation so he can be punished for ten thousand kunas. So that these two things, of course, that we are all for sanctioning those who embarrass Croatia, that such people should be banned from coming to sports sites, but I don't think it's right to do it in a way that takes away their passport, because there is another way that we can do it effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25977	Thank you. And we have another replica, distinguished representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25978	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, Madam and Mr. Secretary of State. A colleague, Maras, spoke correctly about an arbitration border of 0.5 promo, which was probably taken over from analogy with drivers driving under the influence of alcohol. It is likely that these 0.5 prominences, which have also been taken as a limit in some other countries as a result of a decrease in the level of reflexes, etc. And there's some justification in traffic, but here it's really to discuss. Especially when such a firm limit of 0.5 has been taken. So the one who has 0.51 or 0.501 promil already violates the law. I would just like to say that for reasons of measurement and measurement of uncertainty, measuring equipment is inconclusive in practice and in court any measurement of five permeations would have fallen into the water, it should sort of be resolved differently. It's probably not going to happen in practice because the police are going to control a far more alcoholic person, but still this is one thing that's very clear and sharp, and it kind of needs to be done with the colors.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25979	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25980	Thank you very much. I just wanted to comment that the game, however much it may sound now, is not a theatre show, and it could be passed in law that any other public gathering should not be brought with more than 0.5. Which is why then, at a concert in the centre of Zagreb at the celebration of the silver medal of our handball players, it would not have been possible to have a maximum of 0.5 and then have the police come there to test people, etc. These are the same fans who were up until an hour ago in "Arena" Zagreb, now come to celebrate with our handball players. There they could drink there they couldn't drink. On the other hand, this one beer, I didn't think they were drunk, I don't know how much, but it's totally illogical. I can also do damage to Croatia and behave badly at the celebration and concert in Ban Jelačić Square. So I think that analogy with 0.5 is totally missed and you need to see how it can be defined, maybe with another border, but you can't pull analogy from a law that defines that under the influence of alcohol greater than 0.5, it's hard to drive a car, and that analogically, it's hard and normal to follow a game, because that's not how we all know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25981	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. He's got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25982	Thank you very much. Well, here's actually a few dilemmas and ideas that I've had since the time I spoke on behalf of the club. First, I would really like to thank and thank the promoter for his goodwill and initiative to give us a quality law. I believe that's the way it's going to be, but I really don't understand any misunderstandings. You say you've had 6, 7 meetings with cheerleading groups, etc. And until five days ago, I read in the media, let's say, specifically, Madam Vice-President of the Government, saying that she didn't get anything from the cheerleading groups, and that created a little delusion with me. There's obviously poor coordination between the ministry and the Deputy Prime Minister. That's my conclusion. Maybe it's his fault, and I'm letting him do it. But let's be clear about what this is really about. That's what the police and the cheerleading groups agree on. It's about 20,000 people organized in cheerleading groups. And by the assessment of the police and some kind of record to say so to the police and the fan groups themselves, it's between 200 and 300 people who make accidents from Sunday to Sunday or month. And now what I think we should be careful about. And it's about one good number, so-called. collateral victims who, because of their so-called scapegoat positions, can become wrongdoers. That's why we think we should come very carefully to this law. I'm going back to the point and that English model. I don't like prison in the English model, but I like something else, which is that sports competition organizers have to be responsible. Not the way you said it. There's nothing for the police to suggest to the organizers to break up the football game, when there's a security officer who tells and estimates it's possible to get to the incident he has to give the order to break up the game. And it's, I don't understand, there could be more examples from which de facto it's seen that the police are in a certain way benevolent towards clubs, to the football alliance, etc. I don't believe that's because a good part of the cops are involved in the administrations of different football clubs, in the football alliance itself, etc. I can't believe that's it. Now, I'm interested in one thing. Why, for example, high-risk games, the organizer is not obliged to hire licensed security guards. I don't think we need to make sure there's a difference between the director and the security guard. And I know that you have this law foresaw the training of these directors. In what way, by what program? They're fans and club members, possibly some employees at a club. And I'm actually going back to that article 4. I mean, hat, scarf or some other cover-up identity. I won't talk about alcohol because I've had enough. What else is some kind of cover-up identity? I'm not so sure when someone draws a face that it's not a cover-up. I think at least these few things should be clearly worked out and that's no problem because in my opinion, putting a joke or a scarf around your head or drawing the same thing. Now, is that a reason to act or isn't it I don't know? You see, it's a bigger problem for me that, again, a certain discretionary right is allowed to be given, according to the organizer's evaluations and the police at meetings and sports competitions, that there are some special measures. So, there are conditions to bring a misdemeanor etc. But what happens if an organizer or police has a wrong grade and an evaluation, so let's say at a sporting event that is not estimated as a high-risk excess. I think it's kind of an arbitrary thing to say in the law that maybe we should define them more clearly. Now, I must say again that one thing is not clear to me even though the Secretary of State tried to answer me. So does the fan log in or into the database? Is the suspect entering the data logs? Or do only those who are justly condemned enter? So, a protective measure. And you have a situation like this, and I don't get it. I've committed a misdemeanor, I'm being brought in by a judge and he says there's a judge for a misdemeanor who can, listen, he's my neighbor, he's gonna assess it, and he's not gonna give me a restraining order. Or maybe he won't tell me because I'm a parliamentary representative and some friend of mine who's not a parliamentary representative, who's an ordinary citizen and doesn't know a criminal judge, he'll tell him. I think that some things should be defined because it's actually the space where they get stuck in people's rights. Otherwise, I could list a lot of examples that people who are told certain bans, who don't know that Dinamo is playing somewhere in the province against some country club to have a friendly game come to him ten minutes before the game and bring him to the police because he didn't sign up and he's a stadium 500 kilometers away or 300 kilometers from Zagreb at the same time. Therefore, there should clearly be some things to define. I'm just going back to the organizers one more time, so I'm going to unorganize. This English model I don't know if you have a chance to study and read it well. He predicts there for players, and for what he announces in the field. So, all the participants of some sports competition, the competition that you want to be responsible, and they need to be sanctioned. Not that he can, but he has to. And what creates a lot of oblivion among men. That question of torches, I'm going to take a banana example here. Because we're not co-existent, we're not consistent. So, the Sljemen are allowed torches. In football stadiums, I understand why they're not allowed. But then you should say they're not allowed anywhere. I know someone's gonna answer that in Schladming now that there's been skiing for this world cup when an Austrian descends from above down that slope hundreds of torches up there, they're not banned because they won't be thrown on the track. So, let's just call them things that can be interpreted one way or another, that should be explained and that kind of separation should be avoided. And I believe that if the proposer succeeds so that this law could be good or that it could ensure better implementation than that law we now have because I claim that this law that we now have is not so bad but precisely because of a series of ambiguities and indetermination could not be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25983	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25984	Comrade Lucin, I think that you are fully entitled to the responsibility and organizers of the sports competition, so that I may even in this context extend the story to some extent. And in this law, if we're introducing measures to misbehaves for fans, I think we need to expand them, for example, to the managers of some clubs. We've had examples of an executive vice president from my hometown who is a Nazi, literally racist, nationalist insult to members of another nationality, nothing happened to him. For example, he didn't end up in prison, he didn't have a measure, he didn't have to give a passport, etc. Second, about the security of the terrain itself. I think that we need a law on the safety of sports resorts as such because the only person who died in sports combats died, a young football player, Zadar Hrvoje Custic, who died because of his head, fell on an unprotected fence. And it's not so much a problem with these serious consequences with fans themselves because they just didn't happen, they just happened to the owner and the investor in certain sports facilities. Well, it's been a while since I thought "Spalladium Arena" had collapsed a part of the stands. Therefore, if we are talking about safety at sports resorts, then measures must be introduced on one hand for all, therefore also for club officials, but also to bring in and ensure that the State implements the Sport Act which speaks of criteria for sports playgrounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25985	Replication response, Mr. Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25986	Thank you very much. I completely agree with you colleagues. When it comes to laws, but especially when it comes to hate speech, then it's a responsibility for a spoken word or gesture on a much greater scale, to call them public figures than ordinary citizens. What seems to me to be defining maybe should be defined, and I don't see it here from this law, that it's a sports stadium, halls, etc. a unique facility and that what applies to the east, to the north, that the same applies to the VIP lodge. And that way we'll solve both alcohol and all the problems. So when you read this law, you don't actually know if liquor is allowed in the stadium. It says that it's consumption and you can't come in drunk, but there's a dilemma left by someone who's not as skilled and who doesn't know the right as I do, you could interpret that you can still pour alcohol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25987	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25988	Thank you very much, Your Honor. State Secretary. Well, regardless of some criticisms related to this law, I think it is very important to point out that this law, this Amendments and Supplements Act, is primarily well-intentioned. It is well-intentioned to ensure the safety of the viewers, which wants to ensure the safety of all those participants in the sports competition, as well as those of the citizens who are on the road with fans. The measures are targeted, and they are targeted in that section to crush the resistance to violence that has clearly been resistant to the laws so far and to the current law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. Interesting information is that Croatian clubs have paid around 7 million kunas of fines so far because of such cheerleading riots, so if there were more penalties to how many of these are from representative matches, it would have gone up to 14 million kunas somewhere without mentioning the material damage that has taken place along with these penalties. These strong kunas and coins are mentioned for the reason that a good part of these costs are paid by taxpayers from local, urban and even state budgets where even beyond the will and the citizens and voters of the funds are given to individual clubs, most likely with the aim of helping to develop sports, to help that club improve sports, and that money is mostly used to pay the fines prescribed for such hooligan riots at games. So, when the savagery of individuals who harass all sports fans and even the whole society will be successfully stopped, then we will save more money, and that money will be used to improve these clubs as well as the development of sport itself. I support this law in spite of the more significant focus, but it is the result of the disgrace of Croatian sports and athletes who otherwise successfully promote us on domestic fields and abroad. The law, as you yourself have said many times, is on the trail of so-called. English model. It is effective for individual repression, which is also applied in France, Italy, and even Bulgarians have such a law. And normally, the goal is one, to end football vandalism and football vandalism on these competition grounds as quickly and efficiently as possible. I believe we will certainly welcome the day when the violence as well as the protective fences will disappear from the stadium. Those who are prone to cheerleading riots and who mostly come to these games to create riots are bothered by any regulation that will sanction them or prevent them from doing so. And they'll always be against it, finding out how many mistakes and I don't know how many objections to any regulation. And those who intend to come sportly cheer on the terrain, who see it as one entertainment, entertainment, etc., many do not touch this bill at all or any other law that can be even more repressive. Those who say and those who criticise that this law is very repressive or that I don't know how repressive it is, I must say, must be less repressive than the Chinese law that was passed last year, which is far more repressive and stricter, and it has more consequences for those evildoers who come to these sports grounds to make incidents. So I think no matter what, I'm experiencing all of your debates so far to the well-intentioned, that maybe something else is improving, but more or less in a nomotechnical sense, but I think this law should be like that, it should be repressive because that's the only way we can somehow end those groups that come to stadiums in order to cause riots and make riots, not watch the game. They're either a game or a stadium event, whether it's football or someone else's not interested in it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25989	Thank you. We have replicas. First is Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25990	... refers to the football situation. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] You also talked about the penalties they pay for the riots, etc. So let them pay. Besides, they also get huge money for football transfers that don't pay VAT. The government's register of that, the government's register, it's no use at all. In addition, at least that's how the media writes that some clubs cover the gambling debts of individual players. I ask a rhetorical question from which funds? Is it done in a transparent way? Whether taxes or VAT have also been paid on those funds. So, I think that hooliganism should not shed crocodile tears and that especially these clubs whose fans cause riots and should prevent it from own resources, not that costs should be transferred to all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25991	Thank you. Mr. Kunst's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25992	Comrade Franic, I fully agree with you. It doesn't make any sense why I brought up all those fines. If they paid for it, if it went to harm, I don't know those organizers. But this does not go to the organizers most often, but goes to the expense of taxpayers, because in fact, you know very well from the budget that you can check it more easily in your party, which is being channeled from the city budget to individual clubs, we can especially say “Dinam” so we can call it how much money comes from the city budget. And of that money, they pay a lot of fines by rampaging up on these sports grounds. So I agree with all those who said that the organizer should take a good deal of responsibility and bear sanctions, not just the fact police, taxpayers and everyone else in particular, and with these funds that serve to sort of record misdemeanors on these sports grounds. So we totally agree here. It would make sense that that money that citizens, taxpayers dot these clubs that it goes for the development of sports, that it goes for something useful, not for paying the fines.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25993	Thank you. We have two more replicas. Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25994	A fellow Kunst, not you, and not only did you refer to an English example, i.e. an example from Great Britain, one great truth that in fact their law eradicated those hooligans from the stadium, but moved those hooligans to the streets and did not resolve the issue of hooligans. Therefore, if we think so easily that we will solve the problem, we will not solve it. It's bigger now because it's on the street. Secondly, you said the law was repressive. I agree he's repressive. I also agree that it should be repressive to those who make riots. However, they are primarily in this situation of Croatia hypocritical. You have situations to discuss here all afternoon about the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, that statistically speaking, the damage that fans do in no way bounces away from the national criminal average. One game breaks the tram, and three times less than any norriad or anything like that. And second, there was no courage here or in Parliament, but neither was the government. I would like the joint forces of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Science to bring provisions to address the general issue of violence among young people. You have a situation today that the murderers of Luke Ritz are walking freely around town just because Luke was killed on the bridge, not at the stadium. If they'd killed him in the stadium, they'd be in jail. They killed him on the bridge, and that's why they're walking around the city, and that's why this law is hypocritical. Not what he's bad, but what, if we want to discuss it and we want to believe that something really wants to be solved, then this law has to go to law on the eradication and violence among young people, as well as to solve the entire mafia that's worth it around football managers and so forth. Football managers flew cars into the air and killed on the doorstep. And when we're going to have that complex, I'd like you to suggest something like that in the second reading of the law, then the whole story would be closed and then we'd have every right to say that we want to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25995	Thank you. Mr. Kunst's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25996	Well, you've noticed that there is no more hooliganism in England and no more of those protective fences, but finally these fans who come to the games can watch peacefully. Well, that's the purpose of this law to achieve. I'm sure what you said moved into the street doesn't seem to be that much. It's happening. It's happening. Of course it's happening. The cheerleading groups are clashing, and they'll always fight, no matter what. But there are no such riots as happened especially with regard to English fans. Because in all of Europe, ha and in the world they were in that voice. And it is this law that aims to sanction, and it is normal for it to record before those misdemeanors, without sanctioning them to not come exactly on that section of the road where innocent citizens are found where fans or those who are prone to these excesses do not suffer. Well, then there's no need to complain that the police are like that, and there's a lot of it in the records and it's an alcohol test. Well, I'd even test them for drugs, not just alcohol. Because now whether 0.5 or 1.0 that's questionable. But I think you know that the one who comes into the alcoholic state of sports competition must be more prone to disorder than the one who really comes normal, sober to watch it. The one who drinks more before is more and is alcoholized is more prone to disorder and to cause it and to participate in it in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25997	Thank you. And another replica, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25998	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm not sure I've heard Mr. Kunst well, so if I'm misheard, I apologize in advance. But it seems to me that he compared the restrictiveity of these provisions of the law to Chinese law. If I've heard correctly, I think it's an extremely inappropriate comparison. So, Mr. Leco and Mr. Maras have been troubled by this law on human rights issues, and I'm not sure China should really be a model for us as far as human rights are concerned. However, in one case, when police took these guys from Facebook, we were under China in that sense, so they criticized us, but I'm not sure that China must be our role model in human rights, however well we organised the Olympics and these summer Olympic games and the Paralympic Games afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u25999	I can't help a fellow MP if he doesn't hear. There are institutions there and there are to buy hearing aids, I can even direct you to one address, but obviously you haven't heard well, I haven't compared this law to Chinese law at all, but I'm just you who are criticizing so much of this law, which is aimed at preventing repression, individual repression. So I told you exactly who you're so critical of, yet this isn't the most repressive law, that it's even more repressive Chinese law. Although one and the other, although one and the other, regardless, we do not have to underestimate China, any state, are intended to do exactly what this law means to prevent riots, hooliganism and so on, and in any case, it is one positive intention and this law, even their law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26000	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26001	I thank Mr. President, thank Mr. Kunst for his concern for my hearing. I think I heard it right, but I'll read it one more time. So, I'm a fan of all Croatian clubs, but I prefer Hajduk, I admit it, but I am glad when all Croatian clubs achieve success anywhere and I think that such a positive atmosphere is always good and most Croatian citizens are absolutely thinking that way. The problem is she's not so many, but in any case a troubled minority who's actually got nothing to do with their club, but there's a chance that there's a game going on to make a mess. So when they stopped doing it in Croatia, they started working outside of Croatia. That's why a fan is an absolutely positive category, and I'm always sorry when hooligan fan groups don't differ, especially when the media is talking about group members who are doing riots, not hooligan groups that are making riots. So, cheerleading, as Mr. Maric said on behalf of the HDZ club absolutely represents one passion. I would say that by writing this law, the government has also made a bit of a cowardly approach to this law and that is why some of the measures here have made it so repressive that it can actually be considered a certain mild frustration that it has failed to solve the problem of hooligan riots in the country, either outside Croatia. In addition, football clubs, especially football clubs and sports as a whole represent one part of the identity of each of us, so a large number of people in Dalmatia are identified with Hajduk, Zagreb with Dinam and the rest of Croatia. In other countries, it's the same thing. That's why every cheerleading story, about clubs, about sports has one sensitive, one sensitive note, which is why you always have to choose words. I personally had an example when I was troublesome by the lyrics of a cheerleading anthem that I actually encountered a rather violent reaction from all sides of undivided support to an undivided attempt that made me go to touch it. It was only important which part of Croatia they came from. However, in order not to talk about bad examples of cheerleading, I must point out a good example. So, during the 11th month of last year, I was at a basketball game, played the Zagreb basketball club and the Partizan basketball club. So, the game, as many would say high-risk, but a group of young people from primary school who were probably, therefore, organised to come who cheered, in 40 minutes how long the games lasted clean games, not in any word offended anyone who was there and it was indeed one example of good cheerleading. So when you can and when you want to work with children, good results can be achieved. On the other hand, it's bad when things get normal for us. It's bad when we get maltenes normal, or when people instead of convicts react and who's to blame, when it happens on the day of the game to break the car of the wrong registration tags, when it becomes normal for someone to hit someone on the tram because they had a club scarf playing that day, that's either visiting or domestic. So things like that can't be normal for us. It should always be that people go to the game to encourage their club and there's no need to be in any part of the cheerleading group, if it's a cheerleading group, not a hooligan group to make it normal for us to have them fight each other because then in some way, like Mr. Leco said, no one's smart gonna go to the games anymore. On the other hand, the situation in society is such that the public mostly because of these things that happen, which identify all those who visit matches, are particularly discriminated against by younger game visitors, so that there is no difference in the question of hooliganism anymore, the breaking of the issue of self-defense. In fact, there is always someone, unless, of course, it's organized groups that organized the fight so that it would be fought out of pure peace, that we had a case of Croatian and Russian hooligans, not fans before the match of Croatia-Russia when the police prevented it, so it's usually not taken care of enough when sanctioning, so that sometimes people who come into such a situation are forced to defend themselves and defend themselves, but in some way and evaluate everyone's equal punishment and, of course, people who don't want to show up in these records eventually appear in the records and the question is therefore what kind of problems they have further. In the presentation of the Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Adlesic, who has been responsible for Mr. Lucin's actions, said that one of the articles of this law would allow the end of the game when racist, fascist and other scandals and insults occur, if I understood correctly, it means that, therefore, the commander of the police at a particular game will interrupt if the cheerleading takes place, for example, "home-ready" or "kill, kill a Serb" or someone else, it does not matter who and unless they do so, will then come up with that police officer to punish himself for not doing so. Or just like this, what Mrs. Adlesich said, it was only so long that she calmed down a little bit in the parliamentary debate, then of course she'd be right afterwards. As this law goes into second reading, which I consider to be a measure of caution because some of the provisions have been a little excessive and there is no need to set a tax on what it is. So I think that 0.5 is going to be slightly increased, that some other provisions here are going to be slightly changed, that this will contribute to a parliamentary debate. So I think the law is good to go to another reading. I don't dispute any good intentions of proposing that in this little cheerleading law writing, it's gone a little far, so it's going to go back to one appropriate measure because as a fan, I've always seen a cop at the game as a person who's going to protect me, not as someone who's going to punish me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26002	We also have a replica, Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26003	Dear Mr. Bauk, in the assessment of the state of this law, says that by December 12, 2008, police in the implementation of the law that we are now correcting have been misrepresented by 4 thousand 217 persons, and of which 2 thousand 143 persons are reported by the provisions of this law. There we had 295 people with minor bodily injuries, and 29 people with severe bodily injuries. But so far, we have hardly recorded any serious verdicts among these 4,000 reported. Regarding the possibility of ending the game, it is true that Article 28 adds an item 4 which reads when there was an illegal behaviour of the viewer in a larger volume during the sport competition, the police will suggest that the organiser suspend the sport competition temporarily or permanently. So, the competition will not be interrupted, but the police will come to the organizer and say please, please, can you stop the game because there has been unacceptable behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26004	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26005	Thank you. So as for the first part of your replica, Mr. Faber in one of the opening speeches told us not to bother ourselves with unnecessary statistics, so all these numbers still serve to make an argument, and statistics can be interpreted in one way or another. As far as the end of the game is concerned, I know how sensitive it is, then, when the atmosphere comes to some extent to its peak, because usually in irrelevant games, unless it's organized and messy, and if the organizers didn't relax a little bit too much, it doesn't happen. I mean, I've been a basketball judge for 10 years, I've had various cases in my career, but I've never had to interrupt a game because of an audience. However, I think that the formulation that is within the law, so that the police will ask, I would give the police more authority, so that they have the power to break the game unless, of course, it's a temporary interruption. Unless it's about international competitions that have some of their own rules. And of course I've never been in a permanent game break, because players and coaches and clubs aren't usually responsible for what's going on, players and coaches, now for club administrations less, they're not guilty, and if the game can end in front of an empty theater, I think it's better than that the game is completely over. That's why I also understand this temporary interruption in this positive context. 'Cause of course when one game isn't over, then it's got tails that can still have cheerleading riots, tensions, and so on. That's not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26006	Thank you. It is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26007	Thank you, Mr. President. I would, before saying a few words about this law, because it concerns the law of course and sport in general, congratulate all our athletes once again, no matter where and where and when they defended the reputation and the name of Croatia, but also the fans who followed them and who actually singled out their money and time and together with them in a certain way did the same good and were their support. Also, given that it is a very fresh experience that we have with the Croatian handball team, I think it is very important to give support, or to give recognition to all those who have led this wonderful generation and who are leading with Mr. Šol and our colleague Cervara today and who have actually made so much pleasure to all of us. So when we are on this very important issue, so the issue of security in our stadiums, then we have actually shown, Croatia has also shown at this world handball championship how it cheers and how it actually respects both its opponents and how it encourages its players. So that's what the Snow Queen has shown here, but of course we don't do this law and we don't bring it for such an opportunity, but for the troubles we're also witnessing. So it was very interesting here to listen and actually see how many State Secretarys and Ministers came here today to present this law, it also speaks of the importance and seriousness of the government's approach to this issue and in these exhibitions we heard that it actually started from the assessment of the situation, and in the assessment of the situation it was actually seen that the data with which the barata is now being defeated and that is why it finally goes into the making of this law. So, we heard that about 6 thousand people have been brought in since this law began to apply, that 320 people have been injured in Croatian stadiums, that great material damage has been done, and that I am not talking about the picture that went into the world and that has damaged the interest of Croatia and the safety of Croatian people, or fans in stadiums. counterpart Maric also spoke very inspiringly about the importance of security in our stadiums to ensure that people come to stadiums, but in a way that they bring their children, to be safe for them, and then he said a few comparisons of what it is in a general sports competition without viewers. I would add that really, it had occurred to me before that really was one sport, no matter how important the event was, the world event, but without the viewers, and they wouldn't be if there was no security, they'd really be defiled and essentially unimportant. Let's just imagine I don't even know how to play the World Cup final without having any viewers or having a few. No matter what, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, So, sport is really an escape viewer like flowers without water. This law provides for many new safeguards, which is very important. He also defined the new place and the role of directors. I think it's a very important point too, because all the participants in an event in some sports are very important and I personally have attended often in a situation where the director does not work order, does not seem order, but unfortunately mess, or contributes. So this is a very important point as well. But this one, too, when you've defined, although there have been some opposition here in that sense when it comes to the cover-up of identity, so for all that disguise, I don't know what everything, with the aim of hiding identity. I think it's a very important item of this law, because you can imagine how after a game or during that game or just before that game, how the same masked one can easily turn up in some exchange shop or bank, and it's a good-looking occasion, and I don't know if I have any fan props yet. Therefore, it is also as important as I hold important protection of human rights in terms of not restricting human rights as such, but certainly with a view to protecting those rights of one's rights, and according to the law and the Constitution, it is necessary to limit this protection of the human rights of all others. Therefore, for those who have spoken and there have been such voices, not here in the assembly but in the public, as this law is, the law against human rights. I'd say it wasn't, and I'd call it a law against nonhuman rights. If we're gonna talk about something that's against what this law is. Finally and here in conversation with counterpart Kulusic that in fact and in a certain way in thinking about this matter in a certain way when it is summed up all this matter can be said that in front of us, before this law it may be in Croatia, I don't know a few hundred or maybe just a hundred I don't know but it's a fixed form of expression of hooligans who are fighting around the world and who are actually announcing these fights even on the Internet and it's the only way to send them to appear somewhere in a country, in some stadium and make a mess, and then they call themselves fans and then I actually think that we should do everything, not worry about their right to act such a mess, but it should really be prevented in the interest of everyone. But the role and importance of clubs here is also very important and it will be regulated by this law and in one concerted effort on the one hand by all those who have worked on this law, but who here were a respectable number and who have actually given and sent a message that they are serious about this matter. So, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is very serious about this matter and this problem and with all those concerned, I think it will not only be passed a good law, but it will be implemented tomorrow and it will guarantee everything we haven't had so far and why we have actually decided to pass such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26008	Thank you. We have a replica of Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26009	My colleague Bagaric... I agree. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, I absolutely agree that we should insist on safety in sports competitions, then I would ask you to do whatever you can on the party line, because it obviously does not work differently here to apply the provisions of the Sport Act that speaks of the safety of sports resorts. And here I keep talking to these clubs in the first football league, and 99% of athletes and athletes play their sports and train in inappropriate conditions. Autlinium half a metre from the wall, unprotected radiators and not counting any further. I must admit we had this question asked on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and then these representatives of sports clubs were quite moving that they had no money, that they were redecorating it etc. I have to say, I don't care if they don't have money, they have money for a lot of other things, then they have to have it for safety. Therefore, the issue of security is not only a matter of security from this public order and the peace to which this law applies, but also of general security, and I don't think it can be viewed in isolation. Secondly, I absolutely agree with you that the laws in the Republic of Croatia should prevent riots. However, just as these laws prescribe certain illegal behaviours in sports stadiums, I would like to agree and propose together laws that will have the same punishment for those same behaviors in other parts of life. How can I tell you? I personally have no difference between those football hooligans who formed a swastika at a game in Malta or a minister who enjoys a concert in the Ustasha greeting. It's exactly the same for me. And it should be punishable both. Our laws now punish only one thing. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26010	Answer Mr. Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26011	Thank you, Mr. President. So I think fellow MPs, I think this is a question that you finally said you probably had an intention to start, I don't know, actually when you picked up a replica you probably looked primarily at, although I agree with you when it comes to security that it's very important, but this at the end with which you ended up, I think that sometimes, it's my belief, sometimes however good it is to talk about something, sometimes it's good to talk about it moderately, rather than to measure it. So, if you have a war of psychiatrists and if a psychiatrist is able to talk to all the soldiers, etc. So it's good to have a psychiatrist in the war, but it's not good for him to be evicted to that extent, because his entire army will come for inspection and then you'll be able to conclude that you don't really have anyone to count on because everyone has some difficulties. So is this. If we always and always and where we should and shouldn't, and when we have reason and when we don't, I don't know we mention such events. We're kind of provoking them, and we're kind of provoking them in a way that I'd say we're encouraging them. Why? So I would agree with you if we had a absence of reaction here, but it's not true. So here, several times it's been said, how many times only the prime minister has made it clear what he thinks about what you've said. And so it's quite clear that both the government and those who are responsible when it comes to me, the relationship to that question. But now to exaggerate every time and every time again and again and again in speaking in one way that fellow Cain spoke here when he spoke on behalf of the club, where he was so that he would actually be afraid to provoke some people who were actually banned from fruit very sweet and glad so we know that during Communism when he was not allowed to carry out the Croatian coat of arms, people were wearing it, and for that reason we were serving in prison. So, I think we should have a measure in everything, even in that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26012	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26013	Dear President, representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to say, given my age, it's no wonder that I have a rich experience and a sporting active athlete, a coach, a sports club manager and three sports experience. I'm not going into legal matters because I'm not a lawyer. I'll look back on just one thing that's even slightly contrary to my colleagues from the constituency benches and the club regarding the continuity of taking away the passport. I absolutely don't think that the Constitution goes beyond the borders of our country and that freedom of movement and the restriction of freedom of movement in the Constitution is guaranteed to Drava, this is just how I use it, or to Sava, but that it doesn't apply to Brcko or to the Cave. And it is that as a citizen of Croatia, I feel embarrassed and humiliated that my fellow citizens are shame and flag and coat of arms, and that I, tomorrow with discomfort or discomfort, have to come to a city where such citizens have done things that are not appropriate to the cultural and civilised world. I wanted to correct Mr. Radin's club representatives. He said in the '80s they were riots. I must say, I've been a fan of Dinam since birth. When I was a year old, I joined my son, but unfortunately I didn't take him to any games because it became dangerous. Yeah, it was a mess, but in a way that riots happened between the Partizans and the Dinam fans in Maksimirska, and that we kids who went from the Maksimir stadium didn't happen in the stadium and in the stadium, or they were effectively prevented at the beginning, that we knew we were going down Bellimir's street home and not Maksimirski. And the police have been more effective or less effective in preventing it. I support this law, and I believe that given the good intentions expressed, and the proposings and suggestions given by my colleagues and lawyers, and the wrongdoers, but all of them with good faith, they will experience more changes that need to be cleared up. But I'll say, there's probably a lot of you who agree, my basketball experience. If, I don't know what the tariffs are now, I hope they won't deny me in the paper, but if a roll of toilet paper came out of your audience a couple of years ago, it was a fine of 300 kuna, 300 kuna, for which you in an amateur club should have worked very hard to get them from merchants, auto mechanics as a sponsor's contribution. If your voice breaks and you can't perform an anthem at the start of the game, the punishment has been blatantly greater. Regardless of the technical circumstances, the consequences are sanctioned. If there was a mess, too. We had a recent round of game quarterfinals with a Cibon thousand 500 viewers without a fence. There was no incident. But we did have a friendly match on the occasion of some event between Deans and Swords, Guy-cats, some know the geography of Zagorje, so they know where Mace is, where the Bad Blue Boys came in and caused a fight and a crowd. A fourth leaguer or a third leaguer, excuse me, friends of mine, it doesn't matter, a game of friendship that was supposed to promote sports turned into special police interventions because of such individuals. And I know the laws speak of letting ten guilty go better than condemning one innocent. Under these circumstances, however, collateral victims are at great risk. Collateral riot victims are told when it comes to torches, firecrackers, and similar devices, someone loses an eye, someone becomes a permanent disabled person because someone expresses his euphoria and his celebration in an inappropriate way. When it comes to these disguises, I'm going to make a little distinction. In this part of the hat. Not a hat. If he commits an act and he's wearing a hat, then it'll be an extra more difficult form of sanctioning. It means he did it with intent. If it comes with a joke, a hat or a confusion because it's -12 as we look at now the Western-European championships these days are not subject to sanctions, but if it does in such a form then it needs to go in dragonish terms and more. And when it comes to these measures, many counters and devices will not agree. I also told the Ministry's representative, unfortunately I think in Croatia, I don't know if there's any in the arenas now because I haven't had a chance to go to the handball championship, unfortunately the counting device, it's about what Velesaj has. We need to see what the fields are, what the halls are. Excuse me, we have here now thanks to the ministry, we build sports halls for schools in I don't know 200 places where we know from coaches, players to directors and cops, we all know each other. And now, are such halls registered for official games, do they have to have counters? Do they have to have marked seats? But I agree that the competent authorities, which is the police if something happens, they file criminal charges against the organisers because they allowed 550 to enter, and the hall has seats for the safe stay of the viewers 400 and has pushed them to the crossings and to similar places. In the event of any accident, there may be devastating consequences for the people who have sat down and taken up space. When it comes to other issues of restricting freedom, I agree that there will always be bad interpretations and misapplications, but I repeat, throughout the whole range of areas, it is also possible. And finally, let me say it. There are, here are the speeches and call "cheers," I repeat again that it's a matter of constitutionality. Why not ask the question of constitutionality when a driver is caught under the influence of an alcohol professional has lost his driver's license for six months, has actually lost his right to work that it is also an anti-constitutional law. But so we say that he knowingly threatened someone's life, health. Even those who make riots knowingly endanger someone's safety... 'Cause whoever comes to the game like that better not come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he better play in front of an empty theater, although fellow Maric is absolutely right. The ambience and audience, the right crowd of cheerleaders are actually everything in sport and those who are competing want to experience that they have a good audience and such an ambience. And we who watch over television screens don't like to watch the game broadcast on satellite channels when there's no viewers, because it's like a Beethoven concert without a viewer, without a theater. Sounds nice, but that's not it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26014	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26015	Dear President, representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. If we analyze top-notch sports by content, fans would certainly be one of its most important segments. Without their support, each athlete is significantly disabled, and with this support often weaker wines to victory heights. So as a athlete in this home, I am very aware and respected the role and importance of fans. They are the generator of joy after victory and for many reasons for new fights after defeat. However, the smaller parts of the fans' groups of well-known names have turned sports events, and especially football events, into polygons of each other's accounts, which has provided the most significant sports clubs, but also the Croatian state with a worrying negative image in the sports world. The consequences were not only media reports calling Croatian fans, but lost titles, medals and penalties for Croatian sports clubs and alliances. May I be allowed to use an example from my European water polo sport in Kranj in 2003 when the cheerleading riots during the meeting of Croatia and the Serbian team did not end with one scandal and the name of our fans, but directly influenced that the Croatian water polo team did not base the title of Europe's champion. Let me explain. So, at the time of the outbreak, Croatia was leading two or three goals and after that, we de facto lost that title after the extensions. In addition, even though we were not the organizer or host of the championship, the Croatian Waterpolski Alliance has been punished by 100,000 euros. The law on preventing riots in sports competitions is a logical response to such events. However, the law of this type must have a starting point in the fact that riots encourage a very small number of fans, but the character of sports events is that the environment in which there is a large number of viewers such that all of them are slowly and especially when they reach the incident itself, almost necessarily extend and involve a large number of people. The fight against rioters is based on measures outside the sports fields, making the entire European legislation of this type experience permanent changes in conditions and events at sports sites since its adoption. In fact, the law is not and cannot be a repressive tool, but only a measure in the fight against riot groups. Here I would like to remind you that the British Football Fans Act is subject to modifications every year, and is proposed by the body under the direct authority of the Secretary of State in which 5 out of 7 members are appointed by the Prime Minister. By coordinating the work of all who are in charge of sports, for example in Great Britain have managed to turn football fields into places of social gathering, almost eliminate violence, but still retain a huge amount of cheerleading passion, creating such a exemplary environment of sporting events. Something similar, I'd say maybe even nicer, we saw it at the World Handball Championship in Croatia. Of course, the question arises that in such a short time, just weeks after the loss of football fans in the Czech Republic and Italy, Croatia offered a picture of a model cheerleading nation. Part of the answer is certainly in the fact that the vast majority of protective measures were given to fans to behave in football stadiums, while at other sporting events the riots almost did not exist. For example, the entire water polo sport records only one fan who has been given a protective measure and is similar in basketball and handball. I believe that the second part of the answer is in the right preparation of fans for sports events, which is just fine in the example of the World Handball Championship. For weeks before the public competition, a positive atmosphere was created in which the significance of the event was fully affirmed. When we add to this a great organisation of service protection and order maintenance, then it is clear how this competition has offered a formula to be managed in the future. Speaking in person recently with group representatives, I've heard a lot of objections to this law. These remarks were primarily directed, as we have so far heard in other exhibitions, in the way of implementing safeguards and their constitutionality. However, these fans set an example for me of a recent event in Prague, where, for example, 20 Croatian hooligans were throwing police in various cases, while the other 2000 were not far from the scene of the riot drinking beer. And it is in itself proof that there is no alternative to fighting for the ultimate eradication of violence at Croatian sports sites and around them. Recent comments from fan groups must certainly be taken into account in the Croatian Parliament, but also those who will implement the law, especially when it comes to practical application. I also believe that these legal provisions are a framework that ensures the possibility of introducing order, but only one of the measures remains in the fight against violence. With minor changes and additions, I am convinced that the entire Croatian sports world will welcome the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26016	Thank you. It's Mr. Zdenko Franic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26017	Honored Mr. President, dear secretary of state, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So, so far, we have said countless times that in this law, in the largest number or almost exclusively refer to hooliganism in football stadiums and often arguments and parallels have taken place in the debates related to British laws that their parliamentarians have dealt with with with with hooliganism at their football stadiums. Moreover, one who has had the opportunity to look at Discovery documentary on football hooliganism is more than scary and worrying. However, the fact is that the primary purpose of British legislation was infrastructure security in order to prevent tragedies in stadiums such as the collapse of stadiums and the like. However, here it is still an emphasis day on the repression and eradication of inappropriate behavior that leads to other situations. Already, counterpart Lugaric said that our main problem is leading and hooliganism in football stadiums, in fact, a football mafia that burns and burns not only with football but also with media space. So we all know what a certain vice president "Dinama" is doing and how he behaves inappropriately. It's a rhetorical question whether that stripping and alcoholic behavior would eventually fall under this law that we're about to change. And so that one such radical measure would actually show an example to young people who see a pattern in it, but unfortunately an extremely negative example. The fact that this law seems to have hit the very essence is illustrated by the fact that fans' associations have announced a constitutional suit against this law. But the question is, what are these associations? Is it chess or art skating associations or the “Snow Queen” on Sljemen or perhaps handball fans where despite the fact that there were 15 thousand or more fans in our facilities, there were still no significant incidents. How is it that audiences of individual sports are more educated, disciplined and fitr in all manner of behavior? How much of this association “Armada”, “B.B.B.”, “Torcida”, “Cohorta”, “Ultras and Demonium”, “Tornado”, “Funcuti”, “White Stones”. They claim there are twenty thousand fans behind them. But here, I would like to illustrate one interesting fact, that, for example, the number of visitors to the Croatian National Theatre in 2008 was greater than the total visit to all of Dinam's games that same year, so we didn't need the Law on the Protection of Opera Viewers in HNK. In any case, citizens often feel helpless, unprotected, there are also numerous collateral victims, whether they are wrongly arrested or treated by the police in any way or simply damaged by property, and there are trams and personal cars, façade houses, etc. And what this law really needs to think about is that the costs of law enforcement are not passed on to a wider community, but also to the organizers of certain sports events, as well as to football clubs themselves, and recently also to club owners, because here some are either privatised or are in the privatisation process or as one of our Zagreb club de facto and worse than private, i.e. the ownership of one man. These same football managers have, picking up fantastic sums from the transfer of individual players to which the state never had the power to give certain tax burdens, so it fills the state budget. Well, as I have already said in one replica, gambling debts of individual players are also paid, and perhaps coaches are also openly written in the media, without asking the question of which funds, in which way, the budget channels have gone through. Is VAT paid for such transactions? Unfortunately, so far, we have not recorded any more serious verdicts than these several thousand reported under the articles of the former law that were not bad, but should have really been made aware of the fact that it could not be implemented effectively. And besides, it didn't actually contribute significantly more or less to the reduction of hooliganism. So this is not just a problem for the police or the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. This is also the problem of the wider, i.e. the Ministry of Justice. The law says that it is forbidden to come drunk, or after drinking alcohol and drugs, and even predicting that someone is under the influence of alcohol. I'm asking a question. What about drugs? How are they gonna test whether someone's been drugged or not? So it's forbidden to own intoxicating and consummating, but it's not already prohibited to come in high or high. This should also be done in some ways. And I think that this law is very much needed by our society, but that it should be more drastically referred to and only the roots of hooliganism, not only in stadiums but also in a wider society, or a wider social community, would also be through educational measures and whose entire spectrum of measures should have affected the behaviour of young people because it is obvious that the audience that one day could be seen perhaps one day of the year when the Open Museum Night was not creating the problems that fans create during these high-risk games. And let's just say it one more time, almost exclusively football fans.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26018	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26019	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll look back on two things Mr. Franic said. First, he categorized sports and fans in sports. Although this is the situation in Croatia now, we are talking exclusively about football fans. The fact is, as Mr Bukic said, by applying some of the provisions of the new law that will be passed, the situation could change. Well, when the hooligans couldn't go to Croatia anymore, they went abroad. Now that they can't go to football, I can use some other sports to sort of show off their hooliganism. For example, we have a case in Greece, where fans of two rivals in all sports, so Panathenaikos and Olympiakos made a mess at the water polo game. Moreover, journalists had to save the life of a player because someone remembered to throw an electric light into the water. So, it's not exactly, you should look out for other sports, no matter what happens at this point, it's just football. However, some sports are of course contactable, so where does a player contact, some sports are not, tennis type, volleyball, table tennis and so on where no player contact comes from. However, it is not good to compare it with the theatre, concerts and so on. Namely, concerts are not attended by composers and other fans, so the Anti-Bethhovens and Beethoven fans come to their contact and so on. There's only one concert where there's actually an anti-creation, an excitation of hate. However, although there are no other audiences there, only those who enjoy the concert come, then condemn it in public, but that's a different story, we're not going to talk about it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26020	Answer, Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26021	This transfer is missing, in fact, this transfer of hooliganism and sport to another sport is the problem of hooliganism as such, not any cheerleading, and that's what we in society have to fight. And I said the comparison with the theatre because we must strive for this perhaps unattainable goal that when we bring in fans, but those true fans from sports courts and theatres and museums, the problems will probably be far less on the arenas and sports grounds themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26022	Thank you. Another replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26023	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To me, I feel the need, my colleague Franic to tell you that you really, seem to have elaborated very well the role of the wider community in sport. What I would especially like to point out in your presentation which I liked very much and I hope the ministry in this direction will clearly and make some moves, which are managers, sports workers and trainers. That wasn't a lot to talk about. Unfortunately, their statements, their behavior, their educational level well contributes to the creation of a negative climate in and around some sports. So I really hope, and I hope you too, Mr Franic, agree that, in the next phase, the ministry should clearly move and try to apply the criteria that people would be, which people would be at the head of such sports, how to choose people who would sit in the administrations of these sports, try to make an impact that a qualitative shift in the structure of these people would still be done because it seems to me that this and even faster things could be resolved. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26024	Answer, Mr. Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26025	Depending on your replica, this very privatisation of many clubs that are under way could be used to select people who, by example, will promote sports, true sports lovers, and not unremarkable people who set a bad example for our youth, in the management boards and relevant bodies. And in addition, such actions may also serve to make the money spinning, the huge money spinning in some sports clubs and sports more transparent in circulation so that which kuna ends perhaps in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26026	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26027	Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In any case, I support these amendments to the law, and I think it's high time that this law was passed. We had a law with these new changes to prevent riots like hooligans, not fans, from working and embarrassing our country. In my debate, I'll look back on perhaps one topic that no one here today has debated since as far as I've read the bill, I think it refers to all sports associations and all sports facilities. I don't know if you know it, but one piece of information, that maybe we're just talking here about first-class players because there's a riot going on there, and we have in Croatia about 500 small amateur clubs. No one talked about them today, and as far as I understand the bill to refer to them. I don't know if the secretary of state is following me. I'm afraid these little amateur clubs that every municipality and city has will not be able to meet the mass of those conditions proposed in this law. So as video surveillance will be applied, how the watcher orientation ramps will be resolved, counting and ticket control devices and so on. I don't think it's gonna be possible to do that in our little clubs. I'm talking about those clubs, they're the municipal, municipal leagues, the inter-municipal, the county, the inter-zonal who count the most athletes, a lot more than this first league, 12 clubs that count the most viewers and who gather the most children. I have 250 kids at my club in Bistra and that first team is, I don't know, in the 4th League so that we can compete with those fingers, limos, cadets, juniors, pioneers, and that's why we and these clubs in all municipalities and cities co-finance from our budgets just so that these kids can gather here and play sports. The problem is that I see punishment. We at those clubs have volunteers, enthusiasts. And we have fines from a thousand to 150 thousand kuna. Who will be interested in doing more volunteering or who will be more enthusiastic in such a club when, if not obeying these provisions of this law, they will receive such punishment. So we have to count on it. When it comes to costs, I must say that such clubs, such are the regulations of these sports alliances I do not know, that these are such costs that one game if you host you costs a minimum of 6 thousand kuna, if you go to the guests also because you have to pay for transportation. Who's gonna pay for it, and there's no sponsor. The sponsors only have first leaguers, second leaguers, maybe third leaguers, and we don't have sponsors. You can get about 500 kuna for some kind of ad, or you'll be given there for a pint of beer, but the other one's gone. So I'm afraid it's hard for us in these small clubs to respect this law. Also when we talk about young people, unfortunately we invest in those children, then the managers come when they're 17, 18 years old, they take them for free, and we invest in them, buy equipment and playgrounds, buy clothes, drive them, sandwiches, feed them. Then those boys take us away, and we get no compensation, and then they make a living on them. So we don't have any income. What I see is another problem, maybe some of them will laugh, but in our team to call them so municipal, rural clubs one of the proceeds is some kind of bar where some coffee sells, some juice, some beer, some gemist, rents that simple, and there people hang out, there's no riots, nobody fights, they drink, they come to a game, they watch their team and they go home. If we ban it, and it's one of those little incomes to cover those costs from the basket court, so I don't know that janitor, the cleaning lady, the maids what they have to do on that playground, then I'm afraid we'll be able to do even less with those kids and invest even less. That's why I might have wanted to point out to the promoters that you take care of these small amateur clubs that have 500th in Croatia. We're all talking about this big, and the law is essentially, we're directing it to the first leaguers where the riots happen, but I'm afraid it'll... The victims if they were called just these little ones because they're the most, and those 12 who are either 14 or 16 or how long they're second-sellers, I think they'll feel the least and they'll eventually be able to pay for it, and I don't know how these at this little local level at these little clubs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, in any case, I support that law, but I'm asking the promoters because it goes into law into second reading to take care of these very small amateur clubs at the local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26028	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26029	Here's my honest and esteemed neighbor, but I still need to say a few words and replicate. In fact, my colleague, I think we need to accept this law as it is. I really don't find any possibility of a problem being in volunteers and in criminal provisions. These volunteers are honest people, hardworking people, working people, and we've never had problems with them. The biggest problems are where? They're at the manager's, the coach's, uh, well-paid. There's a problem. If you were listening to the news at 7:00 this morning on the first program of Croatian Radio, a statement by a coach where he talks about taking off his underpants. That's the problem. In volunteers I do not find that problems and volunteers will surely not disturb these criminal provisions because they will never come into temptation to clear and break.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26030	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26031	Here's just that for a little while. I completely agree, I said I support and I will both arms as they say to raise for this law, because I think it is necessary and necessary to prevent these riots and these hooligans that embarrass our country. But what I'm saying is that here I just wanted to suggest to the promoters, because I can't read here that it doesn't apply to small sports clubs in municipalities, cities and villages. So it might be a good idea to put some piece of law where it can be read in this way, because I'm afraid, because it's not said to apply to clubs in the fourth or some kind of intermunicipal lysa. That's why my suggestion is like that, and in any case, I support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26032	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. He's gone. And finally last in the debate, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26033	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the Parliament, State Secretary. I have called for a debate on this subject for a reason to support the law, but also to give support to the fact that the law is as good as possible, so that through another reading there is more time to discuss everything that seems relevant in order to enter the law, to some change those provisions. Namely, I would like to make one important difference that may not have been presented so far, the important difference between fans and those fans who are making a mess, so that these fans who are making a mess actually sort of distance themselves from sports competitions and forcing them to stand at home, not to attend these competitions. However, all competitions do not have the same value in this regard. All competitions are not the same, in the same way do not pose a threat to others, do not make such a mess and I have the impression as if writing this law that primarily had football in mind and everything that happens at football matches most often, because in fact all of what we can witness is actually mostly through football coming, and the most has been expressed and actually started with Margaret Thatcher and that game... Calls, which has led to some more rigorous approach to it all together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with my colleague Gulić at this point and I would certainly support that if, it does not have to be right, but if the impression is such, that football excursions in football competitions were actually leading to the law, that first all sports are not the same as I said, but also that all levels of competition and professional amateur sport should not be treated physically, because simply some conditions in the amateur competition cannot be met and that this should be approached in some way. The issue of riots at sports resorts is a question that can be discussed from several points of view. This law has kind of apostrophealed prevention in terms of increased powers of police and directors, as well as certain obligations of organisers and sports competitions and provides for new illegal behaviours and sanctions. However, we have witnessed that existing legislation has in some ways regulated this subject only the question of how different our law intensities are from what we are experiencing in practice. Is it enough to have the law or the law should be both literal and applied, but of course we must have the law and this shows the proposal of this law shows that the Croatian government has seriously faced this problem and that it wants to end the events that are happening, the riots that are happening. Support for the law must therefore be in the first order of what I have said because of the distinction between fans and hooligans where not everyone can be treated equally. We know what mass means, how to manipulate and manipulate it in some cases, but the question of cheerleading shows one particular courtesy of people, a culture of behavior, and thus expressing dissension or simply manifesting some resistance by whistleing at an anthem is a question of civilization's behavior, not a question of normability that should be right. Just as it may seem simply crazy and quite counterproductive that we have experienced at the World Handball Championship that judges are whistled, perhaps even judges react in some cases the same way, at least not prone to it. Of course, when we talk here in Parliament there is no obstacle between us in the principles that this law should be passed, that these things should be regulated. However, there is always this danger when the content of the law and the reason why the law is being passed is beginning to run into some political frameworks and to give it some dimensions, so some statements that I think are completely inappropriate, I started from fellow Caine whom he doesn't want to tell him, so it turns out that I speak behind him, but he mentioned it so much as "kill a Serb" as if it was in war movies for a while that we killed more Germans in war movies than it touched them at all. So then it becomes self-inflicted, it has nothing to do with the law on riots on this one. The sociological theme is very important in this, but within this sociological theme something that is also looking forward to stadiums that is not a mess, let's say the same thing in this occasion presents an entirely beautiful event, a beautiful feeling when singing "My homeland" and when expressing one patriotism in a completely acceptable way, actually expression of patriotism because it is always acceptable but can be freely expressed and that no one assesses you in a negative context because it is expressed in the right place. Likewise, fans have shown themselves in other elements as real, so they are not necessarily people who make riots. Maybe it's from those who make riots that made people real fans, not hooligans or what the termologically might be called, but I think you understand what I mean by the term hooligan, when everyone sings an anthem. So, they're not a fan of apriors in themselves, so I'm glad and I'd like to hear more in the debate about the fact that it's about preventing riots in sports competitions, not fans, which is part of the debate has been turned. And we're also not talking about concerts, exhibitions and others where possibly riots can be created, because actually the debate is only about sports competitions, and I agree with the possible debate about it, but elsewhere. Of course, there is a lot of humor in cheering that the road that should not alone be prevented, it may sound different to someone, but there are also differences in the occurrence of cheerleading whether it's a local encounter, or a meeting within a state or a nearby unit of local self-government, or something international that mobilizes people. In any case, I would like to say that the law should be supported in every respect as a basis to come to an end with the grinding that we can through another reading lead to I would say perfection. I would also like to say what should be taken into account that commentators' comments and media interpretations of certain events may further pour oil on the fire that triggers and negative affirmation. I also find it very negative, harmful and actually not a little real when the incident in some event is pulled out of everything and I'm apostrophe of the incident, not the whole event, because then it turns out that we only want to look at one side. For this reason, I am opposed to the debate in which cases are generalised and talks about Croats or Croatia what is happening here. It seems to me that some political interest that can be realistic should not go to harm all of us and the state, our dignity and everything else. Of course, I am not a lawyer so that the legal norms of this law can be squandered and commented properly, but I would like to reiterate the need for significant distinction between fans and hooligans regardless of their termological name. And don't let real fans suffer from incidents that happen in sports competitions. Many do not go to sports competitions to avoid witnessing or compromise in some way. So the law in any case how it's set up to try to prevent riots, prevent riots from happening. The law dealt with how to stop a mess, if it can stop what I think another additional category could not be prevented in any way. Also, this law tries to sanction riots if they happened and could not be prevented. The topic is also very interesting for the debate, and I don't know how much damage you'd like to add to the law is a matter of damages. On whose account the damages are compensated and whether such a financial measure, a criminal, restrictive one could contribute to making some people come to their senses. In fact, riots related to sports competitions happen not only in sports courts, playgrounds and halls, they happen even more outside the streets, squares, etc. So that element of general damage is also useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26034	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26035	Well, I'll be colleagues to Roshin but also to many others who spoke, but he gave me a little reason to idealize the picture from the World Handball finals. I forgive at one point I felt very uncomfortable and it was at the beginning when a good part of the audience whistled and whistled at the French anthem. I had an exceptional sense of when it happened with the Croatian anthem on any other ground, and I think that both organisers and those who are calling through the voice to raise and greet one's anthem should stress that it is one of the basic elements of culture, no matter how likable our opponents are. Comrade Roshin, don't be angry. I only used you as the point where I could do it and there were a few other memories.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26036	Replica Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26037	Exactly. Comrade Roshin, you have noticed well in your presentation and you have pointed out this inappropriate and uncivilizing behaviour whistle at the performance of an anthem by a country whose representation plays. Because people don't know what they're doing. No one might have told them that. I'm going to go back a little bit so remember the early 1990s when Croatia was just moving into its independence the World Cup of basketball took place in Argentina when Serbian player Divac took down the Croatian flag from Kukoč, it seemed to me, threw down and trampled. Or when it was in Belgrade a year ago during a demonstration of the burning of the Croatian flag. How did we feel then? Catastrophic, offended and injured. Our citizens coming to the stadium should be clearly told exactly how we behave when we whistle at an anthem by the state. The coat of arms, the anthem, the flag, are the symbols of a state. Among other things, in this country, it was killed to protect these symbols as symbols of statehood and it needs commentators that you mentioned clearly in the transfer. The commentator also has this educational function especially for young people who may not be told it in their family home but is an opportunity to be told. If they knew that, probably a lot of people wouldn't whistle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26038	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Roshin's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26039	I thank my colleague Roncevic for giving me a chance to say something I didn't have a chance to say. Namely, in my speech, which is all the phenomena in the stadiums and I also took the world championship as an illustration, I said about the subject, the politeness, the culture of behavior when it was whistled by an anthem. So I pointed out this problem that my colleague Roncevic pointed out in terms of how ugly we feel, and I also told the judges that he was at least unwise if he was showing some normal behavior. The opposite team whistle is okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26040	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26041	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would use this final address to thank all the MPs who discussed this law today and I would just try to systematicize a few of my reflections that I have come up with on the basis of your discussions. First of all, I believe that the debates were indeed well-intentioned, that they were of quality and that several good solutions were already read out, which this law will certainly fix. I'll start at the end, try to be as short as possible, so I'll try this fear of sportsmen working in small clubs just to get rid of it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So, we expect that the really sport alliance of higher rank will be correct and prescribe those conditions that are realistic, which are necessary, which these small clubs can handle and if we consider it necessary, we can also further remove any possibility and doubt that these small clubs will impose unreasonablely high and expensive and unnecessary obligations. I'd say the same thing Mr. Franic said. I think the privatisation of clubs will, in part, begin to bring order into this area. It now happens that the profits from the transfer are mostly the income of individuals and the equipment of clubs, the equipment of stadiums, objects are a matter of the cost and obligation of cities, county, state budget or someone else. Once the clubs are privatised then the revenues will also be the income of private owners but also the obligations, responsibilities and costs will be the same obligations, costs and responsibilities of private owners. And because of this, I think that this law that the government has passed on to transform sports companies will indeed be the same beginning of law enforcement in this way may not be directly visible but certainly and thus will begin to create conditions for a normal functioning. I'm just warning you, too, that the English didn't come easily and quickly to such an atmosphere in the stadiums. In fact, we may have forgotten that in 1985 after that tragedy in Hessel for five years all English clubs were eliminated from all European competitions and Liverpool for six years. It started happening to us, too, that what's happening to Dinam is that he's going to play a home game without an audience at all, that he's going to go to two games without his fans. And be sure that European sports alliances will also make a contribution together with ourselves that those who break the rules, who discipline Croatia and indeed start to engage together and try to be a sport rather than a sport being a battlefield and arena for showing the lowest passions. The MUP will certainly say try to fix this law even more in that sense that we are just disabling those who are trying to use sports courts and terrains to show the lowest passions and who have nothing to do with cheerleading. And finally, let me just say it. Surely rights and freedoms don't go beyond limit, and rights and freedoms certainly have limits. We are fully aware on the one hand that the MUP and the complete state infrastructure and institutions have an obligation to be effective in curbing riots and to ensure more civilized conditions for true fans and parents with small children. But on the other hand, we also have an obligation to respect fundamental human rights and freedoms because they are also subject to violations. We will try through certain amendments and through certain repairs find the right measure to be more effective, to be more effective in fighting hooligans but not to violate anyone's freedoms and rights and ultimately ensure that the sport competitions are truly used in the history that people are friends with them, to root for their own but not to insult or demean opponents. And I hope that after such a good quality debate, we will surely propose for the next reading a law that will be able to obtain the necessary support in the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26042	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go. ... She was wrongly turned, but here's a correction to an incorrect quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26043	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, after the tragedy in... Not all English clubs were excluded, but all English football clubs from the competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26044	We have another correction, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26045	Thank you, Mr. President. I couldn't find another business form from correcting the incorrect allegations when Mr. Secretary of State spoke of sanctions to clubs and evictions. So, apart from the ban on competition when you don't win, in 2007, UEFA threw Partizan out of Europe because of the riots in Mostar, regardless of what they did on the ground. Therefore, even more severe penalties are possible. In that sense, here's the correction, but actually in favor of what you were saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-04-0.u26046	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. It will decide when other points of the agenda are decided. And now I'd like to announce that tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. we'll start with the agenda today 3. The proposal for a law on mortuary activity and then the three laws proposed by the SDP's Club of Representatives would come into order, likely to bring these three laws together. That's what we'll decide tomorrow, but I'm announcing it as the next item of the agenda. Thank you very much. I'll see you in the morning. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. It was the first reading, P.Z. No. 248. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusions: “First of all, the amendment law and amendments of the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions are adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, who is the conclusion for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 113 votes for and 7 abstentions.
