ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40190	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia here at the beginning of another great one and I hope to do a successful job that we will all do together. As you all know, we are here at the beginning, I call it at the beginning of the end, another big deal, first-class foreign policy, but quite certainly the internal political goal, and that is the conclusion of Croatia's negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union. And I am sure that all the jobs that we still have to do will be done in time, so that in the spring of next year, we will be able to say that everything is over and that from that moment on, we expect the final date of Croatia's entry into the European Union when we sit at the table of European states, or peoples in that civilization circle where we no doubt belong. One of the jobs that we have to finish by the end of the negotiations, i.e. I would say the job that requires, that is to say, the conclusion of the job is closely related to the completion of some other transactions that are related to the conclusion of the negotiations, is the decision to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You have before you the proposal that we have agreed in the ruling coalition, so the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as one of the mandated motions. Let me just briefly remind you how these amendments to the Constitution were born. So somewhere early this year, the government appointed a commission in the last term in which others were appointed and all the most prominent constitutional and legal know-how in the Republic of Croatia. At the head of the commission was the vice president of the Croatian Parliament and writer of the first Croatian Constitution Mr. Vladimir Seks, but there were also representatives of the government and a clear and representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Mr. Mesic. This working group has agreed to amend, on the basis of the work group's work on these amendments, some more have been added. First of all, based on some of our coalition agreements, but also on proposals from ministries such as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. All these changes proposed by the ministries are also related to the government's work programme until 2011. Afterwards, we discussed the proposal in the area of coalition parties and after all this work, I also invited the leaders of the opposition parties to discuss the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a clear goal of bringing the amendments to the Constitution to the Croatian Parliament not only the necessary majority but also the desire to vote for these changes by all MPs and all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, of course, if possible. At the meeting with the leaders of the opposition, or opposition parties, we agreed that this proposal, therefore the Government's proposal, should be discussed as provided for in the procedure for amending the Constitution on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. After that, at the plenary session, so here today, however, the government's proposal is not voted on, that at that point in a certain way, it stops, to wait for the opposition parties to propose their proposal, which will go according to the same procedure. So the Committee on the Constitution, then the plenary session, and then we would vote on both proposals. The proposal is, and so we agreed, that after the work that has been done, one body, one working group, not with the intention that it is said that a working group or commission is being set up when you don't want to finish something, but with the desire for this work to be done, we are already in the ruling coalition which our representatives would be and after that these people will gather meanings on both sides of the joint group and agree on the final amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. What we also agreed at that meeting means that all leaders of the parliamentary political parties are not too extensive in further proposals, so to stop at that job that is primarily necessary in order to complete the negotiations. It also means closing some chapters because some of the amendments to the Constitution and the criteria for closing certain chapters but also to meet those fundamental requirements that have been implemented over the past years and which are related to the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. What I'm saying is, we're in the government absolutely ready for dialogue. I think he is more than necessary in this business and that the amendment of the Constitution is certainly one of the jobs of general national interest. The Constitution is the foundation of the life and work of every citizen and every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, it concerns absolutely all of us and the amendments to the Constitution above all we must all know everything and in some way through representatives of the Croatian Parliament, through you who are national representatives and put into the truth what is most important to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Here is another opening point, perhaps, two on how practice has been in other member states, meaning candidate countries that have become members of the European Union. The same majority, except for how many I know of one, have changed the Constitution. Some have changed the Constitution several times. And now, ladies and gentlemen, about the changes themselves. I'll try to be brief because you've certainly all read what the government is proposing, so I don't think there's much too long and too long to explain. So I'm going to start from the original grounds. We propose that the original bases be complemented in this way, that among the members of the indigenous national minorities, both Bosniaks and Slovenians, as agreed in our coalition agreement. I will immediately state the view of the Government in view of the fact that, of course, there have been legitimate debates in the public that the Government has no objection, although to solve the problem of some other national minorities in such a way that we actually put all national minorities in the executive foundations, so to write down the simplest words, enter all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, so 22 national minorities. But please, it is for discussion here in the Croatian Parliament and for discussion of this working group which will ultimately decide and implement this final proposal to amend the Constitution. Also, I have already said that some ministries have also proposed amendments to the Constitution on the trail of jobs we have done in the meantime. Therefore, since the last amendments to the Constitution in 2000 and 2001 in the term of the then coalition government. As we remember, the Constitution has been changed twice. In the meantime, Croatia, as you know, and I am proud to repeat it again here, has become a member of the NATO alliance. And on the trail, among other things, the defence ministry has proposed some other changes related to the Armed Forces in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia is protected by the Armed Forces, protected by its sovereignty and independence, defended by its territorial integrity and by the Constitution in Article 7 of the Constitution, "that they may cross its borders or act beyond its borders only on the basis of a decision of the Croatian Parliament". These proposed decisions, in a certain way, redefine the role and behaviour of the Armed Forces. Therefore, the constitutional definition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should cover 4 basic missions and tasks defined among other long-term development plans of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, namely the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, defence of the Republic of Croatia and allies, participation in operations in response to crises abroad, participation in measures to build security and trust and help civil institutions in the country. The new provision also stipulates that most of the votes of all MPs are required to make a decision on the transition and action. What we are also proposing in these amendments is the introduction of the so-called institute. European arrest warrant. Since the date of accession of the European Union, Croatia needs to ensure the effective application of the so-called European arrest warrant. This is an instrument of mutual legal assistance, governed by the Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union. Therefore, the existing constitutional provision, in Article 9. The Constitution does not allow the extradition of Croatian citizens to other countries and is of course a legal obstacle to the effective execution of the European arrest warrant. Since the date of accession to the European Union, i.e. for the full harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the Council Framework Decision on the European Arrest Warrant, which I also point out, I have already pointed out at the outset that this criterion for closing negotiations in Chapter 24. Therefore, we propose to adapt Article 9(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which retains the principle of extradition ban as a provision of citizenship, but provides constitutional and legal basis for the conduct of the European arrest warrant. That is to say, the adoption of laws, or the adoption of regulations, which will be regulated in detail. It is certainly in line with the legal order of the European Union. What we are also proposing are provisions concerning the independence and independence of the Croatian National Bank, so the amendments to the Constitution guarantee the full independence of the Croatian National Bank, while dropping that provision in Article 53, which states the responsibility of the Croatian National Bank to the Croatian Parliament. I have already said that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has also proposed certain changes, related to the obligation and freeness of general education. Therefore, on the basis of the fact that the Republic of Croatia belongs to a group of European countries with the shortest compulsory education in Europe with a duration of 8 years and that the recommendations of the European Competence Framework assume a longer acquisition of basic competences than eight years of primary education, while for individual professional interests under the application of the European Union Directive, it provides for the obligation to ensure the acquisition of basic competences in the course of eight years of primary education, whereas for certain professional interests under the application of the European Union Directive, the obligation to provide for the provision of basic competences for a period of 50 years. We also propose this amendment based on the fact that persons who come out of the compulsory education system are 14 years old in practice cannot actually be employed in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Minimum Employment Age but also the provisions of the Croatian Labour Act which prohibits the work of persons under 15 years of age. The amendments and additions to the Constitution that we propose also strengthen independence, further strengthen the independence of the State Judiciary Council or the State Attorney's Council. As you know, the State Judicial Council is a key and central place of independence and independence of the judicial authority, which is in accordance with Article 4. The Constitution is equal to the other authorities. In this respect, the European Union certainly encourages the institutional and organisational strengthening of that part in a way that is independent of any influence of the executive and legislative authority. So, what do we suggest? We propose that the procedure for the appointment of judicial officials is fully managed by the State Judicial Council or the State Attorney's Council, that any decision on the appointment of judges and deputy state attorneys including appointments to management posts be adopted by an independent body on the basis of objective criteria which take into account management and organisational capacity. And of course, what we are proposing is to delete the powers of the Croatian Parliament in the selection of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council as well as the powers to give an opinion in this process. These amendments also regulate the right to local and regional self-government. Therefore, Article 19. The Treaty establishing the European Community guarantees the citizens of the European Union an active and passive voting law at local level in the Member States of the European Union. Therefore, Croatia is bound by the negotiating chapter 23, so the judiciary and fundamental rights to provide a legal framework for the exercise of that right from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. We also, of course, propose what we might call and what we call the constitutional basis for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, or a referendum. This may cause the most debate in this House of Commons. I will only say briefly what the Government's proposal is but please repeat again absolutely open for further discussion. As you heard probably yesterday on the Committee on the Constitution, some new proposals have already been made, and even the chairman of the Committee himself, Mr. Shakespeare, has made another additional proposal. There will certainly be a lot of debate about this, and I believe that you will ultimately make a good decision that will really enable citizens to rightly declare each and every one of them about Croatia's entry into the European Union. So what we are proposing is that the referendum must be approached by most of the total voters by deciding in the referendum most of the voters who voted in the Republic of Croatia. We also propose the non-depreciation of criminal acts committed in the process of conversion and privatisation, and therefore we propose that the property or property benefit achieved by these works must be taken away. We think it's good to finally open up all the suggestions, all the suggestions we've been listening to for years and about that. In fact, in professional circles, but also in the general Croatian public, it has been assessed and it is estimated that it is extremely difficult works for which it is necessary and justified to deny the application of the Institute of Depreciation, especially given the time, circumstances of initiation and the consequences caused. So it is certain that, at a certain time, "thanks" for these works, there has been an increase in unemployment, but that it has caused extreme revolt, a sense of injustice, a sense of abandonment precisely the fact that some of these works have rapidly enriched on the one hand and the feeling of people that this is why many are rapidly poored. So, because of all this, we think it is good to establish this provision on non-depreciation of criminal acts committed in the process of conversion and privatisation, with the fact that I want to point out and remind myself of the fact that we all know that the privatisation process is not over. Therefore, we can understand and understand this as well as a certain preventive measure, i.e. the message of all three pillars of government in the Republic of Croatia for the future. What we are also proposing is the full independence of the State Audit Office. A special chapter called the "European Union" is introduced where here we are talking about the legal basis of membership and the transfer of constitutional powers on the basis of the fact that membership in the European Union requires that certain constitutional powers be transferred to joint institutions as prescribed in Article 139. The Constitution. It also regulates the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the institutions of the European Union, then the law of the European Union, certainly the right of citizens of the European Union on the basis of the fact that we will be a full member of that large community of European peoples. Here you go, ladies and gentlemen, I've been trying to make the most of it right now. I know you've studied this carefully, read this. I want today's debate to be truly in one atmosphere of tolerance and mutual respect, respect and the Government's proposal of course. I repeat, the government is right to propose. The government, of course, did not want to, nor did the government think of it, that is, the members and members of the government to stand above the Parliament in any way and the powers of the Parliament. The final decision will be made by you, I believe absolutely to the satisfaction of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and thus further open the door for the final completion of the great deal in which we participated many, so former prime minister, prime minister before him, prime ministers before, certainly the president of the country. But here today I am particularly emphasising the role of the Croatian Parliament, not the President of the Croatian Parliament, the former President of the Croatian Parliament, all of you MPs and MPs, the National Committee headed by Mrs Pusic. And here, please, go into debate. As far as the government is concerned, we are absolutely open to all proposals, of course with one more request not to go too wide, too extensively, meaning that not all wishes and messages are introduced into the amendments of the Constitution, but that we go after the work that is priority, which is the conclusion of the negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40191	Thank you to Mrs. Jadranki Kosor, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Pupovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40192	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDSS Club, please pause for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40193	Ladies and gentlemen, we have reports from the board that after ten minutes of recess we will continue with reports from the committee that discussed the proposal for constitutional change. So in 10 and 12 minutes we continue the session. There's a break. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we will proceed with our work. It's been a while, and I'm asking Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40195	Mr. President of the Croatian Assembly,... Croatian governments, colleagues and colleagues. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] I am sorry that at this moment of importance for the work that we are going to do today and in the coming days I am interrupting what would be a normal path after the inauguration of the Prime Minister who, on behalf of the applicant, explained her view of constitutional changes. But I had to do it, and I believe you'll understand why I had to do it. Yesterday there was a football match in Varazdin between young Croatian and Serbian national teams, which was transferred on the second Croatian TV programme, the same for which we choose a programme council day and we are responsible for programming values. During that game where our team was sportingally superior and ended up winning, the entire time the stadium ran, among other things, to kill him, kill the Serb. And worse than that. The commentator has the need to say that torches should not be thrown on the ground, but the need to say that such a thing cannot be released into public space, called for violence, and there was no need for hatred. All the way to the intervention at the end of television when he was shy, he said it was something that was not desirable. A few weeks ago, a doctor in Otočec insulted local authorities by insulting them on an ethnic and religious basis, and denied the patient adequate treatment. At the end of the 4th month, during which I was the representative of this Parliament at the Council of Europe, where I was the representative of this Assembly, news came that at a concert in Split in the new Hall of Spaladium also about an hour and a half in the interior of Radio Split, killing a Serb was going on throughout the message. Is this a context in which, colleagues and colleagues, we make constitutional changes in order to adapt them to European and other legislation, European and other spirit? Is this a context in which our Ministry of Foreign Affairs will resent a state that has decided to ban such messages from being heard in its territory? Is that a context where we keep our mouths shut about it? Is this a context in which I, along with my colleagues from the SDSS, should participate in the debate on new amendments to the Constitution? Or finally, the time has come for what we swear in this House, what the Bible of modern states and modern parliaments, which is the Constitution, to finally be understood as a colleague a few days ago, to be understood as the Bible of our society and as the Bible of our country. I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that you will understand the meaning of this intervention and I hope that that spirit of constitutionality that is from the first to the last page in our Constitution stands and which we should strengthen by these changes, you will see as the need for daily life and everyday practice in our society. If he's not afraid that constitutional changes will be nothing more than a mere formality, and that life behind him will go the way we wouldn't want it to be and go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40196	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I think that this intervention was fully justified and I warn, i.e. I refer the representatives to the 3rd item of the agenda, so I think that within the 3rd item of the agenda, there will also be a debate on these phenomena of progress in the fields of speech culture, full and objective information, the development of public content in the implementation of the public television programme, and the removal of the discussion of possible corruption within the HRT, so when we get to that point of the agenda, it is possible to discuss these events on sports grounds in the Croatian Assembly. I now ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of Mr Vladimir Seks to report on the Committee's work on constitutional changes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40197	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Minister. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 38th session held on 13 October 2009 discussed the proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the proposal as a parent committee on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is prescribed that the Committee discusses the opinions and proposals of the constitutional nature addressed to the Croatian Parliament, and in the process of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, prepares proposals for appropriate acts. The proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was introduced by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, noting that the proposal in principle contains three groups of proposed amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Proposal for constitutional changes that should enable the opening, or closure of individual negotiating chapters, to meet the obligations of the Republic of Croatia arising from accession negotiations with the European Union. Secondly, the Amendment to the Constitution for the purposes of membership in the European Union. And amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia relating to redefining the roles and actions of the Armed Forces, the European Arrest Warrant obligation and the freeness of general education, not obsolescence of criminal acts committed in the process of conversion and privatisation, autonomy of the judicial authority and inclusion in the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Bosniaks and Slovenians among members of indigenous national minorities. The Committee discussed this proposal on the content of the draft amendment to the Constitution, along with the proposed decisions, the following comments were made: As regards the provisions on the action of the Armed Forces, it is necessary to retain 2/3 of the majority of the Croatian Parliament's vote on the basis of which the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia may cross its borders or act outside its borders instead of the proposed majority of the votes of all MPs. It is also necessary to review the provision under which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia can cross its borders on the basis of a decision of the Croatian Parliament and the Armed Forces of the Allied States may cross the border and enter the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. With regard to the implementation of the referendum as the basis for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the problem of the electoral lists and the problem of voter abstinence has been highlighted, with each non-referencing vote against. Taking into account the high percentage of electoral abstinence of voters with the residence of the Republic of Croatia in the debate, it is proposed that the provision of Article 18(2) reads: "A new paragraph 5 is added as follows: The decision is considered to be taken if it has been voted by the majority of voters who have joined the referendum, provided that the referendum has been approached by the majority of the total number of voters enrolled in the list of voters residing in the Republic of Croatia". As regards the provision of the obligation and the freeness of general education, it has been pointed out that the Republic of Croatia belongs to a group of European countries with the shortest general education in Europe, and is supported by a proposal to extend compulsory general education, so that the extension of general education should be brought into line with the rules on three-year and four-year general education. It is necessary to review the provisions on participation in the institutions of the European Union with a view to strengthening the role of the Croatian Parliament and the executive authority in the Republic of Croatia. The provision on the non-depreciation of criminal offences committed in the process of conversion and privatisation was presented in the debate short and unscheduled. It is necessary to provide guidance on the basis of the criminal proceedings which have already become obsolete and cover war profits. After the debate, most votes for 8 votes in favour, with one abstention, the Committee proposed that the Croatian Parliament accept the Decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40198	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Furio Radin, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 28th session on 13 October 2009, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed those acts as an interested working body. In the debate, the members supported the adoption of a Decision on the Accession of the Constitution amending several proposals on the content of constitutional changes. When it comes to the original basis of the Constitution, the opinion has been expressed that the government's proposal is not sufficiently reasoned, that part of the text of the Constitution is complemented by the inclusion of Bosniaks and Slovenians in the Constitutional formulation of indigenous minorities. There was no dispute in the debate over the inclusion of these two national minorities in the text of the Constitution, but the question has already been raised which criteria the applicant used when he decided to supplement only two minorities, i.e. why other minorities should not be included in the text of the Constitution. The question has been asked why, for example, Roma are not an indigenous minority in the Republic of Croatia as well as some other minorities. In order to avoid arbitration and the constant requirements to include individual minorities in the text, the current text of the Constitution is proposed to be complemented by the fact that there are, unfortunately, 22 national minorities who are entitled to choose representatives of national minorities under the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Republic of Croatia and under the former Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2001. The proposal put forward in the debate that national minorities in the text of the Constitution should not be named at all, it was found that national minorities do not accept such an opinion as an idea that such a proposal was also present in the amendment of the Constitution in 1997, but that it was not accepted because it was named as the provision in the Constitution for minorities guaranteeing the recognition of their identity, as well as that a significant argument by the Republic of Croatia in accession negotiations with the European Union. In this part of the debate, the opinion has been expressed that it should review the final part of the text in Chapter 1 of Chapter 1 of the original basis in which it is said to guarantee national minorities the achievement of national rights in accordance with the democratic norms of the United Nations and of the free world. The question has been asked whether the expression of a free world country is some kind of relic from the time of the bloc's division. In view of this, it is said that the meaning of such a formulation should be reconsidered in the text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and replaced by an acceptable term. In today's term, such as the words from the countries of the European Union and the Council of Europe to which the Republic of Croatia belongs. It has been pointed out that the constitutional changes should also include the paragraph 3 of Article 15. The constitution which leads to a kind of segregation based on national voting venues if only a special electoral right is applied to selecting representatives of national minorities and suspending, in fact, the general law of the Constitution established as one of the fundamental human rights, so on the so-called question. Complementary voting rights. For the Government's proposal to supplement Article 31 The Constitution on the non-depreciation of criminal offences committed in the Republic in the process of conversion and privatisation has given the opinion that it is not sufficiently precise and does not know who it refers to, in particular, which period, and that, therefore, the criteria for obsolescence should be clearly defined. In addition to the proposed addition to the Constitution on a European arrest warrant, it has been proposed that the possibility of supplementing the Constitution should be considered with a provision that would create the possibility of withdrawing passive voting rights for persons convicted of war crimes. It is proposed that the amendments to the Constitutional provisions on the State-Court Council be complemented by a provision which would determine that following constitutional changes, a new invitation to tender will be opened for that body to be filled in with the staff who meet the conditions laid down in the new constitutional provisions. The opinion is expressed that the decision to engage the armed forces, which was particularly important, should remain in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament because it is a matter of the close sovereignty of the state on which the decision can be taken by the Assembly. Apparently, the Constitution's proposal states that the government and parliament decide, which we consider inadmissible except cumulatively. It is proposed that the text of the Constitution be supplemented on the issue of the protection of children's rights, it is concluded that the current Article 63. The Constitution has exclusive access to children as an object of protection, i.e. it does not affirm an active approach from the aspect of children's rights as it is governed by international documents on children's rights. It is also proposed that the text of the Constitution be brought into line in a way that respects gender equality. After the debate was held, the committee decided, by majority vote 7 for, 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Assembly to decide in the proposed supplemental text on the accession of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40200	Thank you. Do other committee rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40201	Honorable MPs and MPs, the Honorable President, respected members of the government and the Prime Minister. I cannot at first comment on the statement by Milorad Pupovac, vice president of the SDSS and representative of the Serb national minority, saying, "What we sow and reap.". In a way, the public becomes a little bit already and blunt on these things, here. It's a good thing you took the word, that you asked for a break on behalf of the club to repeat some of the things that are notorous in Croatian society. That's possible. It is possible that the mayors say that Serbs and Montenegrins have never done any good and that their votes are counting, but more dangerous than that shouting in Varazdin "Killing a Serb!" It's more dangerous when politicians are calculated, commercials send such messages, and they may not believe it themselves. Because between delusions, manipulative youth that maybe if we do a good job and raise young people well for 5 or 10 years understand things, are much more dangerous than those in their 30s, 40s, 50s of life who say such things in the ether from the calculations. These are things we need to worry about more. Because between a message like that and a rehearsal, it's a short step. Thank you for your reaction because I don't think anyone else would have thought of that. As for constitutional changes that are always important and important in whose public and openness we insist on, perhaps the best example is what happened already in preamble to the status of national minorities. An example of non-transparency and even proof to me that this document before it was sent to parliamentary deputies none of those concerned had even read it because if he had noticed that there was no Roma as a significant national minority in Croatia in the preamble to begin with. I grew up in Zagreb and can say that both in the city centre and in Trnje, on the Pestnica that Roma are a national minority. And it's amazing that they weren't in the House until now, that they weren't in the Constitution. So, if the national minority were with the entity, excuse me, is the esteemed representative telling me something?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40202	No, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40203	Yeah. So it says that it was not even read because the ruling coalition had a meeting with its coalition partners. What was going on in that meeting? What were you talking about? So was there any discussion about the text sent to the MPs? It was only necessary on Saturday to draw the public's attention at a meeting of SDP, HNS and IDS that it was missed. That's why it's not good for a procedure to be conducted in such a rash way. And as for the agreement, which we have achieved in principle and gentlemanly terms, and we will stick to it, we have come to what the SDP proposed in February of this year. What did we suggest when a government task force was formed for the term of office of the previous prime minister? Let's sit down and start within the Parliament political agreement. Well, that's what's happening right now. Why did we lose eight months? Was there a need for that? Is the gorilla home? It's not. Are we now at risk of entering the European Union if we dedicate this business for a few months? It may not take more, but a few months in which we will speak publicly, in which media and interested journalists and editors will have an interest in monitoring and understanding what is going on and of course the general public, an open process. Maybe it doesn't have to be like in France where the procedure always takes a year, where the president forms a task force, maybe it doesn't have to be because we don't change the whole constitution, but let's start in order. So, given that we have our own proposal to amend and supplement the Constitution in which, in advance, our will, we did not plan to go too far, but in the depth of that, I will now remain mostly at the commentary of the proposal contained in this proposal of the Government, which by the Constitution is authorized to propose and try to indicate some of the highway directions of our proposals. So we started from the preamble and from the national minorities. Finally, it is good to mention all national minorities in Croatia in this opening part of the Constitution and preamble. I listed Rome as a paradigm because it is so obvious that one is a present and deeply rooted national minority in Croatia. They've been gone a long time, so let's get everybody down. It has been said that the Constitution is changing in 3 directions, i.e. 2 amendments and one direction. First, it is said that only what is necessary to adapt and necessary for Croatia's entry into the European Union for the closure of certain chapters or temporary closure will be changed. It's the first category of change. In total, four of them are more or less fully or with some changes we support and in their composition, the most I see is the role of the profession, i.e. European law expert from universities which do not have much in Croatia. A few people are here, whose opinion I would always listen to and literally write it in the Constitution. The second part is horizontal changes concerning what we must change in our own Constitution, because we are entering a new legal and political order, and the European Union is not asking us to do so at the moment. So we could wait, it's not necessary to close the chapter. And finally third and that's where the government went one step further from what it announced, are amendments to the Constitution that simply concern some fundamental values and rules of play and society in Croatian society in politics, political community, which is the political process. What is the political process and must be the result of the agreement and must take some time to reach that agreement. As it must be for some time when you choose constitutional judges. It's not good to choose them the way they've been chosen so far. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution also does not fall under this European Corps of Issues that need to be regulated and amended and brought into line with European practice and legislation, but concerns Croatia's indirect entry into NATO. Therefore, in the proposal for an amendment to Article 7, it was clearly intended to make it easier to define in a new way the procedure for sending and making decisions to send the Armed Forces to Croatia abroad, as well as the decision to enter the foreign armed forces into Croatia. I will only point out that no changes to Croatian laws and the Constitution in this sense were necessary for Croatia's NATO entry, so in this sense they are not a categorical condition, but one of our own decisions that we want to create or facilitate if there is a need to do so, or it may be more clearly defined, or perhaps to give it a chance, and even after nine years to bring it into line with the text of the Constitution in some other articles, and that is now an opportunity to make it. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food The constitution, or amendment and addition of these articles, is an amazing thing. It stands on page 4 of the text sent by the Government in the procedure, that the constitutional definition of the role of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should cover 4 basic missions and tasks of the Armed Forces defined by the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and then list these functions. In other words, not in other words, it is almost explicit that the Croatian Constitution needs to be brought into line with something that is not even the law. It is as if you write that the construction law needs to be aligned with the general urban plan of Zagreb or Karlovac. Well, that's not how it works. Yet the Constitution is a higher act of value, yet the Constitution is something that sets the longest-range rules of the game. So, gentlemen, whoever wrote this, this is such a replacement of thesis, I'm asking you to get this out of the way. And then what's next? It follows that because of this, but is not explained why, it is necessary to reduce the necessary majority to make a decision to leave the Croatian army outside the Republic of Croatia. Why is that necessary? Croatia has its own tradition, has its constitutional practice. In 10 years, no important decision-making has ever been made to obstruct, to make a mess, to make a mess of it. The two-thirds majority for the Croatian Army's exit to armed missions and peacekeeping missions with combat elements is a necessity and a good thing for every government and for every opposition, and it should remain. And in that sense we will redefine this whole text of questions and offer to our solution with another addition. The President of the Republic is defined in the Croatian Constitution as commander-in-chief. In the current provisions of the Constitution, it has not been seen in any way. So the military enters and exits the state without it being arranged by the Constitution, that the role of the president of the state is governed by the Constitution, while in some other parts, diplomatic and consular representations, the appointment of ambassadors, the appointment of heads of intelligence and security services, there is nothing here. The president of the state, too, I'm going to say now take responsibility for this. Do you know what it looks like in the procedure when the Croatian Army is sent to Afghanistan? Then you get the president's papers, which says, "I'm giving an opinion," point, signature. They don't scream positive or negative. The constitution should define that the previous consent of the president in this process, with the government's initiative of course, is an essential ingredient. That wasn't in the Constitution until now. It should be in the Constitution, we consider it firm. The Croatian National Bank shall comply with the requirements, i.e. the conditions to be met for the European Union. But here I'm merely stating one example of inconsistency. Therefore, the proposal to supplement the Constitution around the State Audit Office sets out its function and lists the function of the Chief Auditor. All right. At the same time, the Constitution does not mention the role of governor of the National Bank which you will recognise in practice and in reality much more important, if the constitutional category is more important than the main auditor. So there's no governor of the National Bank. This is an article under the article. You put the chief auditor in the Constitution, the governor still doesn't. Think about it. We'll think about it, we'll offer solutions. So, sources of law, so the governor is not mentioned in the Croatian Constitution. A ban on obsolescence. Elimination of limitation of criminal acts from the time of conversion and privatisation. So, if I have to, I'll do it again. It's a proposal that the SDP is detailed and minutely, I would say, elaborate. Ivo Josipovic and a group of experts, elaborated and gave in the procedure a long time ago. I'm glad the government finally took that view. However, the proposed solution is insufficient. That's an inconclusive explanation. His explanation is inconclusive. It clearly shows that this has not been accessed studioically, in detail. We offer a much better solution which you know and which was in the procedure and I must say, I'm surprised that the whole story is reduced to one stupid sentence. "There is no statute of limitations prescribed by law, committed in the process of conversion and privatisation. The property benefit will be taken away." Look, some of the most brilliant legal standards, say in the United States, are 230 years old and short. They were followed by decades and centuries of court practice. We can't compare to that. We need these things to be more specific, if you want to make a teacher's definition, in order to make sense. This doesn't make any sense. This is a nice wish. That can do a lot better, we'll make a suggestion. I believe that you will agree with this proposal and that you will not claim as the previous two years that this is a bad solution that is not feasible. It's executable. So, about the governor and the auditor, we said, education also good intentions, good intentions. However, we will propose something else and that will explain it in more detail. There's no mention of first call. This story without mentioning the first call makes no sense. It's also just a nice wish. Finally, last but not least referendum, referendum provisions. That's where we started to create I'm not gonna say Frankenstein but one little alchemy. Therefore, in Article 141 of the Croatian Constitution and in fear of real fear that this threshold is not too high, the criteria have been reduced. My opinion, I will tell you openly and in discussions with people who understand the Constitution and who wrote it as Mr Shakespeare in the 1990s and participated in its creation, I have argued and I argue that this article of the Croatian Constitution is not necessarily an obstacle to Croatia's entry into the European Union, or that the referendum should not necessarily be implemented in this article, but in that article on a simple referendum, because the entry into the European Union does not necessarily have to be interpreted in the sense of Article 141 as a merger and disunity with the alliances of other countries because the article, the original article of the Constitution, is written for Christmas 90. I will remind you that at that moment, the European Union was two more years in the future. So, I don't believe that you knew about the European Union at the time but you knew about Yugoslavia and Yugoslavia you had before your eyes when you wrote article 141 in which the key provision was not unanimity but that last item of disunity. Therefore, it is clear what the legislator's intensity was, and this article itself is not an obstacle to the referendum. In the European Union are the difference between Yugoslavia and that is the essence of things can come in peacefully and come out peacefully. So it's not a decision that's irrevocable but we approach change. All right. And now we're already getting caught trying to explain what the majority, which most of them need, is where they live. So we see yesterday on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that a new solution is proposed which for the first time is the right to vote on Wednesday in the Croatian Constitution introduces the concept of residence. You see, without any malice towards our compatriots in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are currently in a very difficult situation and we have to help them, there are things that concern us. As good neighbours, we will have to participate in this, but it is the crown proof, manipulation and abuse of this people, the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have finally come to the criteria of residence and someone is proposing it in the Constitution, and that is you, Mr. Shakespeare, which is not valid for parliamentary and presidential elections. So we can't be so unprincipled. We can agree that the criteria for the adoption of the referendum and for the success of the referendum and for Croatia's entry into the European Union will be as agreed, that they can be as in Germany, as in Ireland, that the threshold for exit should be as agreed and that the matter should be legitimate. But you yourself have suggested each other's solution to prove how unsustainable the existing system is and basically immoral and unprincipled. These need no residence and need not, and most of those enrolled in Croatia need not come out, and the vote of people who vote abroad accounts in quorum but does not count the total result. Come on, please, we've got chaos. We don't have a definitive proposal here at this point, that's the topic we need to talk about. And it also concerns fake electoral lists and the residence law because what can be done from the residence in Croatia is probably nowhere to be done. Or we have to clearly define it as Italy. Furio Radin has a domicill in a town far from Pula, there he has the right to vote. Everyone knows he doesn't live there and never lived there, but that's how Italian law was arranged. And when he votes for the Italian parliament, he must go to Italy or vote in the post office. But there are no 130 polling stations in Istria for the Italian Parliament elections, are there not? So we have a situation next. We need to put ourselves more seriously and more responsible towards our countrymen in BiH. This is just one example of doing it badly and there are constitutional changes in progress. We're not gonna write the Bosnian Constitution, we're not gonna turn our hands on anyone, we're not gonna get involved, but we need to talk. It's an opportunity to help. In this way, we show that we ourselves have created chaos that we are unable to sustain. I'm glad we agreed to close the deal the day before yesterday. So, the deal is I will repeat once again that within a week the SDP, HNS and IDS proposal comes to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, to come here for discussion and to discuss it but not to vote on it as it will not vote or vote on this proposal today, but to sit in parallel with it, agree but not behind the curtain. Yesterday there were GONG protests here. I welcome them. I want to hear content, though, and not just the desire to discuss it. Here, we're here, we're having a public conversation. I believe the proposed changes are profound and our interventions are far more profound than wide. We haven't gone too far, this isn't writing a new constitution, but when we talk about serious things, let's talk as seriously as possible. It's a shame this didn't start in February as we suggested. You can see for yourself that in this situation, we cannot lead the debate beyond Parliament and beyond the Croatian Parliament. Well, if something out of this works out, then that's exactly it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40204	Thank you. We've got corrections. First Mr. Representative Nazif Memedi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40205	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable Prime Ministers, respected ministers, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. And a respected fellow parliamentary representative, Zoran Milanovic. Correction of the incorrect allegations is in this, and a few days ago you media called the Roma special representatives of the Roma that we did not read the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that we did not give the amendment to... classification and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] national minorities such as Bosniaks and Slovenians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm glad that Bosniaks and Slovenians are included, but unfortunately, sir, you are IDS, SDP, the HNS you went public promoting yourself for political points and votes. And where have you been? I am Roma, I represent Roma, I represent 11 national minorities, I am responsible for my voters, etc. I have given the amendment to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and also to the Committee on Human Rights. However, Mr Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40206	Thank you. You may come in, Mr. Attorney for the Word, but it's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40207	But it's not true that I haven't read and I don't know. He can't disrespect the Roma. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40208	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40209	Please keep your voice down. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr Milanovic, I see that there is one competition politically who first came up with the idea of bringing constitutional change in the non-depreciation of the crimes committed in the privatisation and conversion process, and then mentioning your next initiative. But I must remind you that the initiative in which you won the elections, so the SDP and the 2000 coalition, was an initiative and the same coalition that was not unfortunately held. So this was indeed the first initiative, but at the time the SDP authorities did not implement it. And the second correction to an incorrect quote, it's actually not a correction. I also join the condemnation of those shoutings in Varazdin, but I would remind you that in July 27th in Serbia your one statement was made that without Serbs there would be no Croatia. Do you think the effect of such a statement is not somewhat or somewhat similar to those of the statements that were made in Varazdin?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40210	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote also, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40211	Thank you, Mr. President. ... Mr Milanovic, you said that the issue of participation and the way Croats take part outside the Republic of Croatia is in the referendum, you said, manipulation and abuse. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I don't think that's true, at least I'd say it's too strict and I don't think it stands amongst other things and for the reason that in 115 countries in the world where the different regulated issue of diaspora participation, colloktimally spoken or the country's country's country's country's country's complicity in presidential, parliamentary elections or referendum. And it doesn't have to mean that all three items are included simultaneously and in the same way. Therefore, this matter has been treated differently and no one is more interested than Croats outside Croatia to see Croatia in the European Union the next day. Therefore, if we approach this in a certain way in order to achieve a common effect, then it is certainly not manipulation. And of course I welcome, here I publicly welcome what you have said when it comes to constitutional changes in Bosnia and Herzegovina and therefore concern and care for Croatia and every political party from Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina as a friendly state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40212	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40213	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam President. Here's what I'm gonna say about yesterday's game. I have to admit, I haven't seen her, but a lot of people have called me high and high on this scandal, but let's let it go eventually. Well, then I'll do the same thing about Thompson. The central place probably of this constitution as I... I am now going to be busy with these provisions on the non-depreciation of works from the period of conversion and privatisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the famous Article 5, which reads that Article 31(3) adds paragraph 4, which reads: "There is no statute of limitations prescribed by law in the process of conversion and privatisation. The property benefit achieved by these works will be taken away.". And for moments like this, you might think that that Royce lesson "who's yawning, pitting" would collapse on its own. However, I will try to prove to you that this is the principle when it comes to turning harder than the strongest steel, than the very principle of gravity, and that in the end, Royce himself will survive. When did Royce say that? It was time to mean the 3rd January administration when many of us asked that crime from conversion be sanctioned because we promised it to our citizens in '99. A year. There was no will, I don't know why it wasn't done. But that crime will be sanctioned today? I'd really like it to happen, but I know it won't eventually. No doubt, conversion, privatisation was made at the time of the war. To me, she's equal to a war crime. A war crime understandably must not go out of date. To sanction war crimes, clearly, there is always time, but how are things in the Republic of Croatia now? The government, we know which government, there in the early '90s, decided, and no one asked her to socialize it, or the state, anyway, into private property. Why? So for hers to, that's my guess, the next day we can rule because we all know, especially in these campaigns, that without money it's hard to get to power. It's possible, but it's hard. And that's why these secret funds were created, from Liechtenstein, Austria, Italy, and all with the purpose of having money after their own, say, creator. Why is conversion a war crime? So because many who participated in it, I think they didn't believe themselves that these great systems overnight could simply be grabbed. So, these individuals are starting to transfer money abroad immediately to their private accounts. That's why a lot of guns didn't come to the front, which is why many mothers are here, and that's why they're turned black. It is clear that Croatia was primarily the victim of Milosevic's aggression, but many will agree in this country and these conversions. The mother of all robberies in Croatia, so I see it, is a conversion, although I dare say that over the past six years perhaps even more has gone by than at that time of conversion. Now the question is, can we take that time back? Unfortunately, the years go by, we can't bring back lost jobs, we can't bring back lost personal tragedies. Does it mean, though each of us would love it clearly, but what is needed for this revision today? Political will is needed and judicial reform is needed, because without changing the good part of the justice players from all of this, I think there will be nothing. So, where to go, probably from the judiciary. Now they have instruments, we see blunts. However, this principle, I would even dare say, is being built into the Constitution to achieve consensus between the position, opposition, etc. But let's now develop this kind of institute based on some concrete examples. Example one. I know a man who was the director at the time of the non-state bank, gave management loans and his son is co-owner today, so I'll say seven, maybe eight of the biggest Croatian companies. It weighs 100m euros, at least 100m euros. He couldn't put it on himself at the time, but he could put those stakes on the 18-year-old son and today he's here in shares, in money weighing at least 100m euros. Of the leading, co-owner of leading Istrian and Croatian companies. An example of another. Tourist companies in Istria, likely agreed throughout Croatia or were forced to re-valorate paid loans. That's how hotel company owners became our bank at the time. After the bank was resold, new bank owners became foreigners, thus using banks, factories, land, hotels, etc. And who can put that back to square one? I claim no one. If this were to be questioned, so I think Croatia would become isolated overnight, without any kuna loan. We would kind of become each other Venezuela, without clear oil, just don't know who would like to be in that country of Chavez. Example three. Croatian banks. ... Not me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Croatian banks have been rescheduled with 15 billion kunas, someone says 50. I'm sticking to a State Audit report on 15. They were sold for 7 billion kuna. It's also a robbery robbery. The assets of these foreign banks or 92% of our banks are foreign-owned and 320 billion kuna. Winning last year was 4.8 billion kuna. Our citizens owe these banks 120 billion kuna, businesses circus so much, etc. The bank first sold Matešina, then that third-month government, and that's also a conversion, and now the question is, what about it? What are we gonna do, close the Prime Ministers? A fourth example. I don't know, say... Not twice in the same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The man has already done something for something, is it possible to reopen some new processes now? Hardly. For example, he's singing. What if the domestic legal person involved in the conversion without any lip buys from the foreign company? For example. The tycoon sold them. Or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, believing in the legal order, in good faith. It's over. That's where I'm afraid nothing can be done. And does it make sense to list all other cases now? Example six. Is that an economic threat to the country? I want to believe you don't. And that's why I'm absolutely up for that norm, but if it is, then if something put the country at risk with work, with our interference in... I don't know how to light fires in a storm. It's certainly a conversion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the transformation put the country at risk, the revision shouldn't endanger the country. But now, is it possible if it's for example? Some company, as we like to say today under investigation, expect that a serious company from the west with the Croatian company will have to deal with it? Probably not. He won't be with any of the Roosters, let alone one of those companies. Could it be a blow to this country's economic base? You got it. And yet should we go to the audit? Well, of course you should. How? 96% of the people, according to the State Audit report, per me, who took over the Croatian economy in the 1990s, '92, '93. For years I claim they didn't have a single kuna. 4% of them had money and 4% of the conversion, let's just say it came to these factories. 1% might have had money inside that 4%. They need to take off their hat, the rest of them should take off something else, but what do we do? In Croatia there is that proverb that we take off our heads to little thieves and take off our hats. I will once again say, not all in the economy are thieves, like not all in politics thieves, as not all who participated in the conversion were not thieves either. But it's very, very little, maybe one, two, three percent tops. There were people who went into conversion, got involved to save companies so the hohstapplers wouldn't ruin them so that what happens today wouldn't happen in one Podravka. So that's what it was. I have the impression that, unfortunately, I haven't, but if I had, I'd be in it to disgust myself, but what you're going to do, in time, that disgusting ghastly, and the property remains clear. Example seven. Let's say that you came to the first conversion unfairly, and the rest of them after that honestly according to that Onasis or Golemovic, don't ask me where I got my first million dollars, but for every cent after that, I'm ready to answer where we're going to go from here now? Example eight. It's a company suck-up. Today I read in "The Vesnik" in 10 years from "The Podravka" evaporated 100 million kunas for prizes, dividends or I don't know what to their managers. And now it is. What's the point. And yet I stand for that standard. I don't think the tycoons are just gonna disenfranchise themselves. They have money, they have security guards, I don't know, well, easy for them, they may pay some parties, we haven't solved the issue of tourist land yet, I guess someone's got a drop of money. They have media, and through these media, I'm afraid I can run politics, that I can sort of bring down and put governments, as I don't know some candidates want to come to power and what little remains of the state actually capture or rob something. The biggest problem, however, is banks that credit and the economy, which credit the state and all of this can be subjected to this famous Article 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But I'm afraid that as the revision of the conversion, privatisation was not made in 2000 that unfortunately it would not be done in 2010 either because there is no time anymore in 2009. As we also promised to return 7.8 billion euros from Liechtenstein, Austria, as I know Switzerland, to this day of the 7,8 billion euros, dollars or whatever has not come here. What do you have to say, I'd say, those bankers who work in Croatia? The Croatian state will not work with you unless you publish the accounts of our citizens abroad if you do not publish all these offshore companies through which money is being laundered from the Republic of Croatia. But will they do it? He won't. Because the state is dependent on the loan of these same banks, so eventually it will go the way that the conversion went. What I certainly welcome is the return of the Slovenians and Bosniaks' preamble, and may it be an assurance of that status and the Bosniak community in Croatia, and if someone stood up for it on January 3rd, it is IDS. Clearly the Roma deserve the place, however, I think that what is most important at this point is that we guarantee the minorities a double right to vote in the parliamentary elections because otherwise the electoral will of Croatian citizens is falsified and I know that the HDZ gentlemen will not do so because they would lose several mandates in this House. For the end of the day, I am pleased that Mr. Pupovac mentioned this scan that happened yesterday, "Kill, kill a Serb" in Varazdin, and there must have been more in those repertoires "Kill, kill Janez", "Kill, kill Mesic", "Kill, kill Cain" as they scandal, enough of this killing, a lot of that commitment for those who run that policy, Mr. Foreign Minister, a lot of greetings "For Home", a lot of black uniforms, a lot of that primitive and fearing citizens of this country because these messages are not only afraid of the Serb population, but of all the well-meaning citizens of this country. And a lot of games like that and concerts like that, and if they don't want to break up that wildcarding on their own, then the government needs to end those games. Croatia will certainly enter the European Union, we see that Thompson will not, but such a policy that does not want to be counted against with its history is neither European politics nor it can be Croatian politics and leads us to the past 40th and early 90th. And what I can certainly promise is that in Istria it will not run so soon, but I want to believe that it will not run in the Republic of Croatia in the future. And that's why some individuals need to stop you in one word, because it no longer leads to anything other than embezzlement and Croatian foreign policy and domestic policy, both this Parliament and the Government and us as peoples. It's been 15 minutes? It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40214	Thank you. We have two corrections, the first Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40215	It is not true that the coalition government had a real desire to carry out the audit and return the robbery from the conversion, she made promises to win the election, when she came to power she did not keep it. What is important to say for the sake of the Croatian public over 80% of the conversion was made in accordance with the Law, there were many irregularities, what the public interested in why no government tried to change the Law that made it possible to make it possible to convert, it should be a question for all of us here, and I think it is time and I think that the conversion is not yet finished and put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40216	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40217	Thank you very much. counterpart Cain said that 15 billion kuna was spent in the recovery of the banking system, the data is not accurate, the overall recovery of the banking system cost the Republic of Croatia 87 billion and 400 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40218	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS Club, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40219	I thank Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister with ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Introductoryly, I think the entire Parliament should not only be fenced at this time but condemn the behaviour of fans at the game in Varazdin that Dr. Popov. As far as the HNS is concerned, we condemn the behaviour of fans at the game in Varazdin, and condemn the behaviour of Croatian-radiotelevision who did not immediately interrupt such a transfer with such candiding. Until it begins to happen, until the financial consequences of the organisers who, due to the absence of transfer, lose, will not end this outrageous behavior. Therefore, I believe that it is in the Croatian Parliament to condemn this behaviour and I think that it is necessary to discuss this when we discuss the behaviour of Croatian broadcasting and the interruption of such transmissions because in this way it is spreading and hating and actually calling for murders through national media, the public media on the whole country for our money, and that should end and that is really enough. And now, as far as the Constitution is concerned, where this kind of behavior turns out and this kind of behavior only adds to how important it is to regulate who we are and where we stand by the Constitution. The constitution, as is known, needs to be changed a little bit and rarely, because it is a fundamental document that guarantees, among other things, stability or introduces the stability of the institutional infrastructure of a country. At this time, the initiative to change the Constitution is not a whim or a frivolous motive but is the fact that we are preparing ourselves to do so for the entry into the European Union, so for full membership in one institution, one political formation for which we have decided, and therefore we have an obligation to amend some of the provisions of the Constitution so that it can function within the European Union as well as all the countries that have become its members. Therefore, the motive is obvious and the need is obvious and there is no dispute about it. What is unusual is the way we have approached it, we have today a proposal from one authorised promoter that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact HDZ and coalition partners and we have another promoter who has announced himself, it is a group of representatives, in fact the opposition party of SDP, HNS and IDS and we have announced a third joint proposal. In other words, we will discuss three times three different amendments to the Constitution in this House. It is my opinion that this should have been done and could have been done in another way, so we could have discussed both of these proposals in one debate. There was no need to put one proposal on the agenda today, another proposal on the agenda next week and the third proposal I don't know when, and on the basis of these 2 proposals to do then a joint proposal to change the Constitution. However, we are now where we are, as the proposal sent by the Government in the procedure has a number of individual remarks and things that could be better and somehow more regulated. This was discussed by colleagues before me and my colleague Milanovic, the president of the SDP club, cited a number of examples related to it. But we at the HNS club think it is important to warn at this point about the 4 or 5 key problems this proposal carries with it, so what government proposal it carries with it. The first problem is the issue of voting in a referendum on membership in the European Union, that is, in the Constitution of Article 141, in these amendments, Article 18. For the sake of clarity, I will read what the government has proposed to vote in a referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union. I quote: "The referendum decides most of the voters who voted in the Republic of Croatia" so, who voted in the Republic of Croatia, "on condition that most of the voters joined the referendum." This solution in itself shows that something is wrong with both our lists of voters and our voting model in the elections for Parliament and for the President of the Republic. In this way, we cannot have a successful referendum on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. There are around 4 and a half million people in the list of voters for the Republic of Croatia. In order for this referendum to succeed in the elections, 2 million 250 thousand people should come out. That hasn't happened yet. So the statement on this referendum should be 2 million and 250 thousand people. That this formulation could mean two things. One, to ask citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not live in the Republic of Croatia, so the diaspora in the first place is, of course, related to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to go to elections because it is necessary to come out if they do not come out of the referendum, but their votes will not count. Or a little less "storage the beak" that requires that people outside, therefore Croatian citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia, declare themselves in diplomatic and consular representations, which means that 90 thousand, but of course in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are more, so many coming out, and in total it would probably be close to 300 thousand people to the elections in one embassy and 2 consulates, come out for a referendum. It is, of course, clear to everyone that it is impossible, and others even theoretical places to vote outside Croatia, without being a voice in the Republic of Croatia. So here for the first time, HDZ has actually said one obvious thing that we have been saying for years, that this way of pleading for any membership in the European Union, but allow enough serious enough and membership in the Croatian Parliament is not good. It leaves room for manipulation, leaves room for dead souls to vote, leaves room for even the HDZ to be told by this proposal, cannot enter the European Union. In other words, in this model, we are unable to get a referendum to join the European Union. Our opinion in HNS is that not enough for the European Union is not good enough for the Croatian Parliament either. Therefore, if the solution that exists to declare membership in the European Union cannot be the kind of solution for the declaration of membership and the composition of the Croatian Parliament, then something is wrong and then something needs to be changed and it cannot be claimed that the European Union is something more serious, and then it should be different, more serious, and it cannot be put in place for a referendum on membership in the European Union to have one... for membership in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government have another... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That principle must be unique. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this game with solutions and other solutions that are also "the strangest beak" could be heard orally on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure yesterday and the political system. However, it is obvious that we have problems with lists of voters on which, according to some estimates of international experts, there are 900 thousand people who do not exist, so 900 thousand extra people on our list of voters. What's going on with that? Who's voting for them? Does anyone vote in their place? Why are they on the voters' lists? Why aren't these voters' lists arranged? It's not clear. But this proposal on a plea in the European Union referendum makes it clear that the situation is unsustainable and unsustainable. There, therefore, changes to the Constitution need to change something else, and this is, firstly, the Law on residence and the Law on Lists of Voters, so that we can even count on any chance of a positive response, i.e. enough to go to a referendum on the European Union's declaration. Therefore, any excessive solution to the referendum is a prerequisite for amending the law before that. Other issues already mentioned here are the issue of additional voting rights. We in the Constitution at this time have a provision that allows for the additional right to vote, but the laws in the implementation have turned it, not into an additional right to vote for national minorities, but an alternative or political right to vote or an additional one. So either you vote for the political option and the parties or you vote only for that little segment of your own interests that you have as a member of some national minority. That should also be resolved in this Constitution. The mandatory schooling issue that appears here is badly solved. It is necessary to introduce a proposal in this government paper that has come before us, that it is mandatory to study for ten years. As is known in Croatia, there are no two-year secondary schools, only three-year and four-year-olds. Therefore, compulsory schooling is a minimum of either referred to secondary schooling or listed for eleven years. Ten years would mean either changing the system together or adapting what was proposed in the Constitution. And the fourth issue is parliamentary surveillance when Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. In this government proposal other than what is written in the Lisbon Agreement, so it will be an integral part of our accession treaty, there is no parliamentary oversight, so no control of the Parliament over the executive authority participating in the European Council and the Council of Ministers is foreseen. So the Parliament knows neither, nor in any way has control over it, beyond what is an integral part of the Lisbon Agreement. We at the HNS club believe that it is absolutely necessary to pay attention to this and to introduce instruments of Parliament's control over Croatia's participation in the European Union in the future. One example we have of, let's say, what we have been waiting for is the vote of the parliamentary committees in Slovenia, because they have parliamentary oversight on the executive authority regarding decisions concerning the European Union. These are some of the topics that we feel should be paid attention to, to solve them differently. As for initiating the procedure for amending the Constitution in the Croatian Parliament, the HNS Club supports them and will support them. As far as content is concerned, they must be significantly different so that we can support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40220	Thank you. We've got corrections. First Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40221	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mrs Pusic, there is no connection to the vote in a referendum with the right to vote in parliamentary and presidential. ... He doesn't have to, he doesn't have to. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now I'll tell you why. Take the brochure of the European Institute for Democracy and Election Assistance, which they have processed, so listen to me now, which has been processed by 215 countries, in which they have shown 115 countries that have different access to parliamentary presidential elections or the issue of referendums. It has nothing to do with each other. That's true. Here's my responsibility. It's another thing. It is impossible for Mrs Pusic to vote in Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina or New Zealand. That's impossible. Now that's impossible. If there ever was, I don't know. I now responsibly claim that it is impossible. And vice versa. It is impossible for someone to be registered in Croatia at this time to vote in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's my responsibility. The truth is that there is a problem with the access of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia and consulates, I don't know it where I can vote because of the spatial distance, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40223	And that is why I propose that this issue be resolved by the additional vote and that everyone has equal rights. And this thing with each other has nothing to do with what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40224	Thank you. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40225	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mrs Pusic said, speaking of these changes concerning education, that secondary schools are three-year-olds and four-year-olds. Which isn't true. Secondary education can be completed in one and two years, especially in vocational education. So what now seems to be changing to kind of extend compulsory education, or here we call it general, we'll see if it's going to be a basic education, it's going to allow students to get to their first qualification. That's exactly what I'm So high schools aren't just three-year-olds and four-year-olds.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40226	Thank you. It's just 11.34 minutes past the time to report 10 minutes to the hearing. On behalf of the HSLS club SDAH Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40227	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Let me at the beginning as Mayor of Varazdin and as a representative and as a citizen of this country tell about these racist insults that were sent yesterday to the Serbian young football team and their fans and also to the Serbian people and others. Unfortunately, some groups of fans abused both the household and the hospitality of the Varazdinac and indeed insulted us in an offensive and rude chauvinist, racist way. What I might have been happy about is that it was a handful of fans outside and that it was still a minority of stadiums. According to an estimate of everyone who was there, maybe ten percent of the total number of fans, the others did not accept such racist candiding. There's no excuse for that. I already apologized as mayor this morning. On the other hand, however, we should not put ourselves in the task of preventing such a thing, which unfortunately exists not only in Croatia but also in other countries. You've got a group of fans coming in just to insult and make a mess. And what has absolutely happened is a serious incident and something that needs to make us all aware of the fact that such groups of young people who thus express their opinion live beside us. What I also want to point out is that there was no organized or rampage or insult around the city before and after the game. There has been a small incident and an attack on a member of the Serbian Football Federation delegation, and I would like to point out this in particular. The Varazdins themselves, therefore the citizens of civilians defended man and actually removed him from any danger. So it turned out that we were good hosts. Unfortunately, such unkind events will take place. I'll give you an example. Last year I was in Slovenia on 18.8. at a game of friendly Slovenia-Croatia in which we won 3:2 and also almost half of the stadium at one point was shouting in Slovenia racist insults to us Croats. Therefore, what is unfortunately happening in the European space and it is up to us above all in the Croatian Parliament to condemn such insults but, above all, to education because, let's say, the attackers of this delegation member were two minors of 16 years of age. Thus, it is still a matter of minority and a handful of fans, young people who must surely be reared or at least warn of some historical facts that such insults would no longer occur. So again, I'm expressing regret. As far as the draft amendments to the Constitution are concerned, we are all aware of the fact that this should happen, that it is a job that we should do in this context and I would not be too unhappy and even reluctant to be several different proposings, or that at least initiatives on change, and then, of course, about some formulations come from different sources. It is simply a democratic right, it only adds to the fact that in Croatia today we also have different opinions on constitutional and legal categories. It is up to us that if possible and I believe it is possible to reach a general consensus on these issues. I would therefore not be in favour of trying to shut someone's mouth or in any way to discourage or discourage the initiatives of all but to try to agree and bring a new text of the Constitution or amendments to the Constitution. There's an excerpt in constitutional and legal philosophy to the American "The Constitution needs to be so clear that the donkey can understand it." This is one sentence that was actually meant to say that the basic document that actually comes out of fundamental human rights and guarantees fundamental human rights, guaranteeing the constitutional and legal order of the state that must then be a guarantee of protecting the rights of individuals, so that these formulations must be so clear, so logically defined, constitutionally-legally no-technically arranged that everyone can truly understand what we want to achieve and what certain provisions apply. If we look at it that way and I think it's good to look at it, then unfortunately some of these provisions, some of which have already been discussed, are difficult for a donkey to understand, so it's hard for us to understand, in a transfer of meaning, all the citizens of this country, especially those who may not be referred to and to the meaning of certain constitutional and legal provisions. So the initiative and motives are absolutely acceptable, but I'm afraid we all need to think a little bit better about some formulations together. I will not read the individual provisions because it would lead us too far and everything has already been spoken about, but I would absolutely advocate that if we are going to expand the Constitution, led by some national minorities not to happen to us again, because the Constitution really shouldn't change too often that we're going to have to expand the Constitution to guide other national minorities, then think about one of the criteria, perhaps indeed the right of national minorities to choose MPs, and then suddenly fit in and somehow subsume all those national minorities that should be namedly listed in the Constitution. Equally, I don't think it makes any sense to take such a provision on the non-depreciation of criminal offences committed in the process of conversion and privatisation as a provision from which certain legal mechanisms can arise, not to say further criminal mechanisms or any other criminal persecution mechanisms. It is simply too indeterminate and it seems to me that it is more used to calm the conscience of all those who have spoken of that it is possible to carry out audits and that it is possible to return the wheel of history back, that it is possible therefore to get to a state before the very process of conversion and privatisation. Look, the Constitution and the laws don't come out so that we or someone else can calm our conscience or just one administrative act to satisfy the needs of the citizens and maybe our own political promises. The constitution is written so that, once again, it would be clear enough and logically and legally determined and that it would be clear to all of us, and then to those who would need to follow the Constitution and the laws that we really want to achieve. It is clear to all of us that out of all these intense calls, the call of combat, political and pre-election on the revision of conversion and privatisation will be nothing, because simply the wheel of history cannot be restored. One injustice cannot be reduced by doing a hundred new wrongs. So it's just not possible. And even if you want to see today a list of all those companies that the State Audit has designated as companies where certain irregularities have been committed. I'm not saying there were crimes, but if we take it as some kind of comparative material then you'll see that in many companies where certain irregularities have been committed today, owners do extremely well, grow on the market, expand production, become regional players. Therefore, I do not know how, from the point of view of some economic justification or ultimate intent or ultimate purpose, we could justify such procedures, which, of course, does not mean that someone thinks that I am advocating that irregularities have been done by doing business today, I am not talking about it, but only about not having mechanisms on the one hand, and that perhaps in our excessive grill without good and valid mechanisms, we will actually destroy some companies in which irregularities have been committed, but today they are doing well, hiring our citizens and contributing to the general economic well-being in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm not advocating irregularities not to be misunderstood again and not interpreted. I just want to say that with this provision we will actually achieve nothing but one way to calm our consciences to citizens who already know that in these ten years the crime committed in the process of converting and privatising and revising it has actually not happened at all or happened very little. I would not agree with my colleague Pusic that such a provision, i.e. a change in Article 65 which is distributed primarily from compulsory education, also means immediately two-year high school. Every country today that is considering labour employment in modern, global, modern dynamics, difficult conditions and employment and business, every country that thinks about it distinguishes basic education from compulsory, i.e. primary education, primary education from compulsory education. So primary education can last eight years and nine years as proposed, it can last six years as a basic and then expand to basic education in general, so for another three years. But surely compulsory education can't end with children, students being 14, 15 years old because he simply can't become a working person. And likewise in today’s world of rapid knowledge and the growing need for living competences and qualifications, it is certainly not with a primary school that people can get what is needed for general or compulsory education. And I would therefore like to advocate that it remains a provision, so that education is mandatory in the Republic of Croatia. This should be determined by the Constitution, mandatory and free of charge, general education mandatory and free of charge, and then legally determined what compulsory education will mean. In my personal opinion, it should at least mean that every citizen of this country needs to get a job qualification. It will sometimes be able to last one semester, two semesters, three semesters, two years, so it is something that is later determined by law, but it is certainly mandatory education must end with those life-long competences and qualifications that make a person a job, or which enables a person to acquire another fundamental human right and then, of course, social rights, and that is the right to work and to live on the right to life from what they do. We also believe that, I see that the consensus has already been reached, that it would not be good to distribute the right to vote in the referendum and the second right to vote. So there you need to find a happier solution and formulations that will cover each other. It is absolutely certain that it would not be good and instructed that, of course, we and all the citizens of this country, bringing the Constitution, in fact, are closing our own ability to vote in a referendum at all, that the outcome of the referendum is valid whatever it is. So, if 50% of the voters don't come out, and that's colleague Pusic calculated it well, 2 million 200, and I don't know how many thousands of people, so we're actually afraid that we're already going to disable any accession to the European Union. But it should also be said that then and all together, we should ask ourselves in what way it is important to explain to the citizens of this country why it is important to go to the referendum. Because you know, the Constitution is still a fundamental act, and if the citizens of one state don't want something, then they show it to the electoral abstinence, it's also their right. So that also speaks of the general mood of one state's citizens. So, with the motives and the initiative to change the Constitution and our consent to move, I think we have enough time, that we still have enough sense to really write one Constitution, once again to use that formulation that will be clear to everyone and the donkey, and that in that sense some of the provisions that we are proposing today are much clearer, much more specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40228	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40229	Well, I would like to correct a representative of the Czechoko who says that many companies that have passed this conversion and privatisation work well today and that therefore should not enter into the revision of this conversion and privatisation. I don't think it's a lot of companies first of all, these are rare companies. Many unfortunately do not exist today because of this conversion and privatisation, and I think it is necessary to enter, that it is very important that the Constitution is built on to try and correct how much of this injustice against those who have lost their jobs, and that in some ways the restless dream of those who have exploited themselves has been enriched in one immoral and illegal way. And I think the State Review in its report best said when it estimated almost 90% of the illegality and irregularities in terms of the conversion and privatisation that has been carried out and called Croatia's robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40230	Thank you. Correction, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40231	Comrade Chehok, it is not true that the syntagm of general education is good and that it provides tomorrow's employability, and that seems to me to be the goal that we all agree on. General education does not end with any qualifications, and therefore it seems to me that it would be better to agree simply to put into the Constitution a formulation that we all agree on, to declare compulsory and free education to the first qualification, and then to decide in special laws on how many years it is at secondary education level, or at primary education level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40232	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40233	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen representatives, Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, in its basic provisions as one of the highest values of constitutional order and the basis for interpreting the Constitution and interpreting the entire legal order, the Republic of Croatia has also established in the Christmas Constitution equality, freedom, national equality and respect for human rights. Respect for the right of man. This occasion, presented by Mr. Pupovac, indeed deserves to be imagined by the fulfillment of this constitutional provision in Article 3. The Constitution and the highest values of the constitutional order. Both the World Football Federation and the European Football Federation and the European and World Sports Federation had a big movement that had animated the whole world and directed Europe to stop racism, stop xenophobia, stop hate on either side. And this particular occasion that was at the football game in Varazdin yesterday should be one turning point, one ruby that truly this European and world action that means stopping racism, hate speech, xenophobia to effectively break off. All actions taken by the legislative body, parliament, the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions, all actions did not bear fruit. In our stadiums, it's still thundering, shouting not only kill a Serb, shouting gypsies, shouting at the killing of cargo, killing a purger. That's got to stop. It must stop, it must really stop, but effective. The game of any sports must be stopped immediately, empty the stadium, no more drugs. There's no medication. It cannot be tolerated, let one group of Croatian citizens and Croatian people, call them and call them the ugliest names, tolerate hate speech, talk violence. At first there was a word, after that work. And that is why I am also suggesting and joining on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives that the Government, and that the Croatian Parliament, too, find an effective response to stop and stop everything that just encourages both hate speech and racism in our events, in our stadiums. I hope we find an adequate and quick answer. With regard to constitutional changes, the Croatian Democratic Community supports and supports the government's proposal to approach the change of the constitution in the proposed scope. We are also open to any other proposals that will be made for the change of the Constitution and on the path that is drawn in the methodology and technology of the adoption of changes to the Constitution. We will discuss today at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament the proposal of the Government to approach the amendment of the Constitution, in a few days a proposal will come to approach the amendment of the Constitution of the SDP opposition group, the HNS, the IDS, I presume. The Committee on the Constitution will discuss the proposal for constitutional changes next week, after which a joint multi-party of constitutional change and constitutional change parties will probably be held next week, and a group that will try to reach a joint proposal to adopt the constitution, not only as the Prime Minister presented the two-thirds majority, but also that those in the general consensus in the Croatian Parliament, because there is a very widespread and political will to bring this change to the Constitution with the highest possible degree of consensus. In February 2008, there was one first attempt to move forward with changes to the constitution, no clouds over the blockade yet, nor was there a blockade of negotiations with the European Union. At that time, everything seemed very pink, very bright, and I, as chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, called on the Rules of Procedure and the political system to launch, to submit initiatives to change the Constitution. And there was also a round table organised by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system for presenting various proposals, initiatives, ideas for changing the Constitution. Unfortunately, it all came down to this, the full attention was created on this, on an initiative which was shown as if it were currently to be realized that by changing the Constitution, the constitutional position of the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic should be appointed to the Croatian Assembly and brought to mind with constitutional changes to something that would be only one decoration. That is why these other constitutional changes have stopped. In February of this year, the government appointed a constitutional, one commission, one working group, which was precisely all the intelligence from the constitutional law department of the office, and the Office of the President of the Republic, and two representatives and members of the Government and judges of the Constitutional Court, the State Secretary, the chief negotiator and here we have drawn up in that constitutional committee, I will look mainly at these changes that the Government and accepted from that working group, the changes that are related to the closure and opening of certain chapters and to the accession of the European Union itself. This was the core of the government's working group, the government's working group limited itself to this, the government adopted its constitutional proposals, constitutional nature, but this was the basis and core to prepare for the closure and opening of certain chapters and for the accession of the European Union itself. The person's attention is caused by one provision and that's the one relating to the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen in this matter indeed in the Croatian public and the media etc., there is one forest of different solutions but there is one forest in the forest in communication. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution is such that it is corrupted during its 1990s and does not have any members of the European Union, none of which required a presumption of the validity of the referendum set out in Article 141(4). The Constitution. As a result, the working group accepted the proposal by consensus, and the proposal was also incorporated by the government in its proposal to amend the constitution to decide most of the voters who voted in the Republic of Croatia in the referendum, provided that most of the voters joined the referendum. This line of voters who voted in the Republic of Croatia does not mean that they are voters who will vote in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in polling stations, but it also means voters who voted in polling stations in diplomatic consular offices outside the Republic of Croatia. This led to large debates on the Law on Referendum, on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum, on the Constitution, on amendments to the Constitution in 97, where it was also clear in the Law on Referendum in Article 5. The referendum law states that Croatian citizens who have residence in the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens who have residence outside the Republic of Croatia. Also, it does not stand for the thesis that today pointed out that today is the first time the concept of residence is being introduced, that is precisely in Article 5. The law on a referendum that's just taking place. It is also in Article 45(2). The constitution that says the Republic of Croatia will provide citizens outside the Republic of Croatia with a vote in the elections for the Croatian Parliament and for the President of the Republic. Finally, we have an 11th constituency in which Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia vote. The 11th constituency includes all Croatian citizens as a separate electoral body, those who have residence from the US, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Germany, BiH. The truth is that in this election body that has a last list of around 396 thousand, 260 and some thousand are Croatian citizens who have residence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was sought the easiest way to secure a referendum, especially because the success of the referendum on Croatia's accession to the European Union, especially because in all the national elections for the Croatian Parliament so far, it was the rate for the President of the Republic and the percentage of the voter's bodies from 19% to 25%. And that's why you asked for the most convenient and most favourable majority to provide. Many countries have this model that the government also proposes and a model that had, for example, in its Slovakia Constitution. Many countries in the Czech Republic, Poland, Latvia, Latvia, Estonia, Slovenia have a far lighter threshold, enough for a referendum to be successful for the European Union to vote in favour of accession or Slovenia as either Poland or the Czech European Union. Hungary wants 25% to go to the referendum and most of the 25% to vote for Hungary's accession to the European Union. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is extremely incorrect that in part of the public it was stated that the diaspora is colloktically seeking to be instrumentalised and manipulated. There is no point in the proposal for these constitutional changes so that Croatian citizens who do not have residence outside Croatia have to come to Croatia to vote in a referendum, there is no question that they would be denied the right to vote at polling stations in Croatia or at polls outside Croatia. The second is just a question of one calculation, one methodology proposed, according to that one idea of mine, whether it will be accepted is another thing, that this number of circuses is 400 thousand in the base for calculating the percentage of accounts according to that figure due to the high degree of abstinence that have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. So it's not about any strange beak colleague Pusic, but it's about one possible variation that many other European countries have to make a referendum, but the diversity and leprosy of controversy over the referendum majority of the first ones, the second thresholds will be discussed many more times in this assembly at all three stages of the adoption and amendment of the Constitution. In conclusion, the Croatian Democratic Community will support these changes proposed by the Government, and it is also likely that all other changes proposed by the other opposition parties, if they comply with these basic commitments, will also support them. We hope there will be a common solution to the general satisfaction of all Croatian citizens and Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40234	Thank you. We have a correction, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40235	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Shakespeare is not true that many European countries have such a proposal as regards the referendum that the Government has proposed here. Many European countries have the solution that the positive outcome of the referendum is more than 50% of those who came out, they do, but the government did not propose it. The government has proposed that for the quorum, then for the turnout accounts over half of all voters enrolled in our voter lists, so also diaspora, but that only those voices that fell in the Republic of Croatia, so those who fell outside the Republic of Croatia are not counted. In other words, come out, but we won't count.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40236	Okay. We have another correction, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40237	It is incorrect that Mr. Shakespeare claimed that he appeared in the media and that he was talking about it and that that is not true, that the voices of the diaspora are being manipulated, or manipulated. If anything is true, then it's exactly that, so I'm correcting that assumption that these voices have been manipulated, that they're being manipulated now. At first, it was so desirable that there were as many as possible, that they voted to the fullest extent possible, and now we see in this proposal a ripe example of that. How do you get out of this? Now they're an obstacle so the referendum won't work. And why wouldn't he have made it? Who led to mistrust in the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40238	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40239	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here I would like to thank you for your discussion, unfortunately because of the obligations previously planned I will have to leave, will remain here authorised representatives of the Government who will certainly listen to the debate until the end. I thank you for what I've heard so far. I believe that in this atmosphere of tolerance, understanding, respect will pass and the rest of the debate and let me say something in the end about this event really unkind event in Varazdin. So, on behalf of the Government, I would like to say very clearly that the government is absolutely, completely condemning this kind of savagery and I am ordering on behalf of the Government as a whole that we will not tolerate it. No one can tolerate it. It can't be tolerated any longer. In the meantime, I co-ordinated here with several ministers, and we'll meet today, today is a session of the rope cabinet. We'll see what else can be done, but I think it has to be done anyway. Probably some more changes and additions to the law, but it's obviously not enough and it can't be enough. So obviously we're going to have to move on because as long as the games don't break up in such cases, until the transmissions of such events are clearly interrupted that the savages won't understand the message. And in that sense, the government will work, certainly with your support. It's not just about breaking the Constitution in such a way, breaking the laws. From the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, it is simply an uncivilized behaviour that we cannot allow in Croatia. Thus, it is obvious that so far laws, or legal frameworks, were not sufficient. So we're going to be looking for definitely the full responsibility of the organizer. The organizer in these cases can't be on the sidelines and can't say it wouldn't be good for sport. For sport, for life in Croatia, such behaviour is not good for each of us and is not tolerable and definitely cannot be tolerated. We will therefore look for opportunities and go in the direction I have announced. Mostly all ministers will be involved in this business with a clear message of zero tolerance for savages and savagery in Croatia. Thank you very much, and I'll see you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40240	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to all the clubs, i.e. their representatives, who, therefore, are all the clubs that have so far discussed and who have supported the view that tolerances towards intolerant, violent behaviour in sports or other stadiums cannot be and that this is contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the law and against the values of this country. I would now like to say a few things on behalf of the SDSS Club on the proposed amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Part of it has already been read by our colleague Dr. Radin, president of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. First of all, as far as preamble is concerned, it is good that all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are present in the preamble. It is good that opposition colleagues have warned of the importance that the Roma cannot be avoided. Roma are certainly one of the indigenous minority communities in the Republic of Croatia if seen. In view of their deaths in World War II and in view of the still present socio-economic and political situation in Croatian society, Roma should be and should be those to which we will give adequate attention to this type of treatment. This is of course true for some other minorities in the Republic of Croatia and for all those who should be in the preamble to the Constitution. As for the other parts of the preamble to the Constitution, I really think that the phrase that Croatia belongs to the countries of the United Nations and the countries of the free world can now have a place in the Croatian Constitution. Croatia belongs to the countries of Europe, whether it is the European Union or it is the Member States of the Council of Europe, but it is Europe. One organised as a complex state and another organised as a community that believes in human rights policy, which believes in minority rights policy, which believes in a policy of tolerance and believes in the common future of an enlarged Europe. And these countries are from Central Asia to practically Canada. In this world, Croatia is safe as well. But the cold war formulation that Croatia belongs to the countries of the free world is simply something that I should no longer have my place in the democratic Constitution of Croatia. And in that sense, the SDSS Club will propose to replace that part. Another thing I'd like to say about the electoral law that most of the clubs have discussed here. And rightly open a debate with positions that understand what the problem is. Already several mandates in the Croatian Parliament, representatives of national minorities are elected on the basis of the following interpretation of Article 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is that if you have decided to vote as a member of the minority community in the Republic of Croatia for minority representative, then you must (a) declare that you are a member of the minority community and (b) you must give up general voting rights. Both are, in our opinion, unconstitutional. This is the first act of segregation in a place where the secrecy of the electoral process must be guaranteed. So from the moment it enters the space where the electoral procedure is secured, to the moment until the ballot is inserted into the ballot box. The act therefore practices segregation and violates the secrecy of the electoral procedure in one of its segments. And secondly, general voting law is the fluid of modern democracies. And no state is practicing the abolition of general electoral law because it has a policy of positive action or a policy of minority rights. Rather, it finds solutions in which, in addition to the general electoral right, additional voting rights will be guaranteed. And that's why we expect from the government, and we expect from the Parliament, Mr Vice President, that this matter be reached before the Constitutional vote. If we are not already going for constitutional change, then the minimum that needs to be done is to adopt the parliament's conclusion, to bring the legislation and legal provisions so far in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. If the Constitutional Court has not had the guts so far, this Assembly, either by its authentic interpretation, or by the provisions of an agreement that exists between members of the national minorities of the SDSS Club and other representatives of the national minorities and members of the ruling coalition, I mean, above all, the HDZ, should create assumptions that such a practice that has existed so far has been interrupted, while ensuring that another practice that will avoid segregation at polling stations, interruption of secrecy, guaranteed secrecy in the electoral process and of course that people will not be deprived of general voting rights because our constitution and our laws guarantee and additional voting rights. And that conclusion is something that the SDSS Club and I believe so the National Minorities Club considers an important element in the further process of discussing and adopting these changes to the Constitution. As regards the State Judicial Council as an important body that can speed up the process of reforming the Croatian judiciary. Increasing the autonomy of judges and increasing professionalism in the work of courts. If it is going to change the selection process, if the autonomy of the State Judiciary Council is strengthened, we are, of course, in agreement with that. But we expect this House to propose that then the existing composition of the State Judicial Council be dissolved, in order to choose a new composition of the State Judicial Council in accordance with the new provisions of the Constitution. Because we know very well that much of the difficulty in functioning courts in choosing judges is actually coming from the practice of the State Judiciary Council. And if that is the case, and if we are choosing this Constitution for greater autonomy and greater professionalism in the State Judiciary Council itself, then I think it is important that we give the opportunity to give these new provisions of the Constitution that we support at the same time and are immediately practiced in a different way, i.e. with a new composition. As far as the referendum is concerned, it is truly unusual that something we have not settled by law, we are now trying to resolve with the Constitution. It is truly unusual that one practice that was actually illegal in a series of elements, we are now trying to resolve by the Constitution, Mr. Vice President. The voter lists had to start much earlier, to regulate the issue of voting rights and how they would vote diaspora and determine what diaspora is and what the diaspora is not. There's no doubt, I'm going to say something now that no one would like to understand. If the Serbs in Croatia saw someone from Serbia as a diaspora in Croatia, we would be offended because we are not diaspora. We are the historic traditional minority Serb community in Croatia. Now a minority. By the 1990s, in the status of the people. And Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are a people under the existing constitution and are not diaspora in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The diaspora are our emigrants in Australia, Canada, America, Scandinavia, Western Europe and a series of other countries. Is that blasphemous if we say so? It's not. Because it strengthens the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is there a better way of taking care of them than through an institution of choice and voting rights? I believe there is. This, of course, applies to all other voters who, in the meantime, have become after wartime circumstances to nationals of other countries, with the possibility of deciding which citizenship, which they wish to retain, is independent of nationality. And if we had practiced a different kind of approach, we would now have more or less arranged lists of voters. Finally, as regards the participation of the Republic of Croatia in activities of allied, militaryly outside the Republic of Croatia, we understand that membership in military alliances is of course an obligation. We understand that Croatia can thus benefit as it can certainly bring significant risks to the very safety of the Republic of Croatia. However, what we think is not good and what we think cannot be accepted is that, after the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces or members of the Croatian Armed Forces in possible Allied actions, the government decides. In our opinion, it is up to the Parliament to decide. The government can make a proposal, the government can discuss this in accordance with its constitutional powers, other governments and representatives of the Allied but sovereign decision of the Parliament to decide when Croatia will enter the war and peace activities it must remain the right of those who represent the sovereign will of the people, which is the Parliament. And for that reason, it is necessary to remove those provisions that cast doubt that only the Government without the Parliament can do so. If I am wrong on behalf of the SDSS Club, of course, I will be happy to correct my position but if I am not mistaken then we expect the government to correct its position in this regard, simply because in recent years, we have had a situation where countries have been drawn into wars that have ultimately turned out to be contrary to the interest of peace, the conflicting interest of democracy and the conflicting interest in the stability of international order, and that is what our obligation here is, and that is what must stand in the Croatian Constitution. There is, of course, a little more to be said in this regard when it comes to the proposal for constitutional amendments, but these are the things that we particularly point out, which we especially insist on and the tone that the Prime Minister has to approach and offer to everyone on the approach to the final text of the draft amendments to the Constitution and encourages me as I believe it encourages everyone in this Chamber. And if we keep it that way, I'm sure we'll get to some kind of consensus then we'll get to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40242	My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you at 13:15 to enter the Assembly of those who are outside it, and those who are in it to stay to supplement the agenda. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40243	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, fellow MPs and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the government. It is clear to all of us here that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the constitution of each country, is a fundamental act that is relatively rare to change and that it takes a really careful procedure that usually takes place, an agreement is needed at all levels, sometimes a consultation or opinion and civil associations and civil society to bring a quality act or quality change to the Constitution. In these 18 years of adulthood, the Republic of Croatia has really very often changed the Constitution, which is unusual for many countries, especially which someone here called the free world or the European state. In fact, one change to the Constitution in the Netherlands lasted 20 years, 20 years of the Dutch Constitution's change procedure and the US's not talking Constitution. With us change the Constitution promises already here until 15 November as if it must be so because here we are just about to enter the European Union for Christmas, which I do not know about Christmas. The Croatian Democratic Assembly of Slavonia and Baranja stresses that Croatia is indeed, let's say, on the European Union's threshold and that this fact requires a series of reforms to be implemented. However, many of the amendments to the Constitution actually fall under the legal procedure, i.e. amendments to the law that could regulate some things earlier. We are now increasing the number of provisions and putting into the Constitution perhaps what is not for the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as the highest, as the basic act of the Croatian State. The HDSSB, the Croatian Democratic Assembly of Slavonia and Baranja, therefore advocates constitutional changes with these facts which have already been called here by my predecessors or by the Prime Minister and for the purpose of the new regional structure of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it advocates reform of the administrative and territorial structure of the county, the municipalities of the Republic of Croatia and the decentralisation of the state to the regions. The region is a stronger unit, suitable for the more significant transfer of state competences and the assumption of a more effective policy of uniform, even, regional development. Therefore, in addition to the other items cited here as changes in the Constitution, the HDSSB will propose the introduction of another home in the Croatian Parliament, a home region which will certainly ensure a more balanced development of the regions in the Republic of Croatia. If someone says or makes a correction here to the incorrect allegations, then they can also quote Presidential candidate Hebrang, Andrija, Mr Hebrang, who said in Slavonski boat that more investment should be made in Slavonia and Slavonski boat, just as one example. And not to mention the Croatian Bishop's Conference, the World Bank and others who cite Slavonia as the most backward part of Croatia. That is why, I say, if the amendments to the Constitution so if the amendments to the Constitution are understood by this HDZB requirement for the introduction of the home regions into the Croatian Parliament and the new and regional structure of the Republic of Croatia, then the HDSSB as a representative club would probably be for changes to the Constitution. If not, then we won't be for changes to the Constitution. When we observe what is proposed in these amendments to the Constitution that are now here at today's debate, very soon after this break because of the Independence Day, then we must see what everyone here is getting for an eye, and that is the right to vote. So it is very simple to assert and determine that problems or hence the main stumbling block, the main stone of interference lies in the Law of residence and residence. And if in that law, therefore, we would not give the Constitution, but in the Law on residence and residence, which was passed almost 20 years ago, if we found a modus there then there would be no problem with the right to vote, voting rights for all citizens covered by that law. We now have various proposals, various comments on the right to vote by those living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and other peoples, peoples, or Serbs in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, who also have the right to vote in Croatia, let us not forget that. And those who actually live in what they would say is a true diaspora, so in far away Australia, New Zealand, the United States or across Europe, Argentina, South America, etc. So we also support the initiative of civil associations that this matter, these proposals for accession, are available to all interested citizens, so very broadly. I believe that many wise decisions can be drawn from these proposals, which can be made in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the processing of criminal privatisation or non-depreciation in criminal privatisation and conversion, I repeat once again that here it is in 2000, I was hoping and voting for those who promised in 2000 that there would be a turn of justice for criminals in privatisation and conversion, but it turns out that Royce was right and said "who pitied, Jamio". That's how it ended. And those who ruled this country from 2000 to 2004, and these, so left and right, turned out to be much smarter. And I fear that this formulation prepared for the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia will again be bitten by a donkey wolf and nothing will happen. Why do I say that? I'm saying this because there's no formulation in the provision that formulates that matter, no text to further regulate how to sanction those who have done this dirty work or criminal work in privatisation and conversion. So there is a proposal, there is an opinion that a different constitutional provision is formulated, so there is no statute of limitations committed in the process of conversion and privatisation prescribed by a special law to be passed under this constitutional provision. If this were to stand in the change of the Constitution, therefore the constitutional law which will then directly regulate, precisely regulate what crime is in privatisation and conversion and deadlines, periods of time in which it was happening, then we can expect some result of this change of constitution, otherwise it will indeed be bit by a donkey wolf or as Royce said "whomio, jamio", it will continue to be so. Keep going. I see that the amendment also recognised, to say the right of the national minority to Slovenians, even though we do not have reciprocity from the Slovenian state and Bosniaks. It happened that somehow in all of this Roma were left out, although in Slavonski Brod, for example, someone was talking here about Zagreb, about the Sandstone, we have in Slavonski boat a settlement that has about a thousand Roma. I know that there are also in the vicinity of Sisak, Šaš etc., in Zagreb and in all parts of Croatia, Međimurje, there are numerous Roma communities. I'd say almost an autochton that's been here for a long time. That is why I do not want politics, but only to note as the fact that they exist here, that they live stationaryly in Slavonski Brod, Sisak, Međimurje, Zagreb and all parts of the Republic of Croatia. And in order not to raise anyone here and act politically, I think they deserve this category of constitutionals they've got, too. Furthermore, when it comes to national minorities, then for a long time in Croatia, Mr. Pupovac has been talking about what is called a positive discrimination against the elections, so the right to vote and the general right to vote and the right to vote for the national minority. I think that we will continue in our Croatian state, in the Republic of Croatia, to have this problem, I think that this matter remains unaffected in these changes. It is an interesting debate on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and here I have the signature of Mr Radin, which says that the opinion is that decisions on the engagement of the Armed Forces should remain in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, which I agree with, as it is a matter of close concern to the sovereignty of the state, which only the Parliament can decide on. It would be a nice analogy when it says that these issues, therefore, are issues concerning the involvement of armed forces related to the sovereignty of the state, which only the Croatian National Assembly can decide on. Unfortunately, there is no such provision that would constantly amend the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian National Assembly may say again, and I do not want politics, because when the state says I mean no history or past, but I mean all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, all of these 23 national minorities, and those not mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, they are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we represent them in our Croatian National Assembly. But there's no suggestion of that. The HDSSB has the right to propose in the course of the debate clearly on this, this matter, this material and its proposals. And he'll propose. So once again, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja is only in the principle of change, these proposed amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but unless I say an amendment, but the proposals of the HDSSB that I have presented today in this presentation are at least seriously considering some of them and respecting, especially those on the territorial reshuffle of the Republic of Croatia and on the two-dominated Parliament or Parliament, the state assembly of the Republic of Croatia, possibly eating, in which so-called The upper home of the region, which will take care of the equivalence of the development of all regions in the Republic of Croatia and of equality in decision-making, so that our region of Slavonia and Baranja, or what it will be called, I don't know how it will be distributed, because we still haven't opened a chapter here on regionalisation and on the regional reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, although it is a chapter that we have to open to the European Union, open and close whether it is. So here are our observations and I say that, in principle only if these proposals we deliver to the Government of the Republic of Croatia come face-to-face with serious thinking, serious thinking and adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40244	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If we had invested at least part of our strength in achieving the values of the Constitution, how much we have invested in amending the Constitution so far we would probably be in achieving constitutional values in a better position than we are today. Because you see, for example. When we read what the Constitution says, we are now dealing with changing the Constitution and dealing with things that are more practical than principled nature. But you see, stay simply found by the facts and values that are written here. The Republic of Croatia is a unique and indivisible democratic and social state. Listen further, freedom, equality, national equality, gender equality, macroeconomic, social justice, respect for human rights, integrity of ownership, preservation of the nature of the human environment, rule of law, etc., in Article 3. But these are the values, these are the positive goals to be pursued. You could say, Mr. Vice President, I'm only talking to you because I know you're a specialist in this area, you could say that the Constitution is actually one inventory of what is not there and I guess what needs to be pursued. Because otherwise how to explain, you see in the light of what Mr. Pupovac said before he stopped this Parliament for 10 minutes, the work of this Parliament for 10 minutes to protest what happened in Varazdin and what happens in many other places, and no one reacts. We react declaredly, after five minutes we forget. What does article 39 say? It is also prohibited to punish any calling or encouraging war or the use of violence against national, racial or religious hatred or any form of intolerance. What's going to happen to these people, these young people who yelled kill, kill Serbs? Will the Ministry of the Interior react? Will the minister be determined according to what we said today? Is something going to happen to these people, is something going to happen to non-reactive sports workers? Is anyone going to behave and something is going to happen to this poor reporter, I'm telling you, because he didn't need to be determined according to one of these big events that the Constitution is talking about? Is something going to happen? That's what I expect. Mrs. Kosor spoke earlier about something going to be done, and I guess she'll also be in the Cheerleading Law. The fan law is strict enough, we have all the instruments to react when such things happen and we have all the instruments to react when someone doesn't react to such things but nothing happens. But we wait, we'll keep asking those questions. We'll keep asking this Varazdin question. Because something big happened, and it still happens, and no one acts pedagogically repressive and preventive when such things happen. You see the stadium in Varazdin is not under video surveillance at all, it says in the Law that all stadiums must be under video surveillance, except in part, we received such information except for part Maksimir. Why is it that, which is the power in this filthy world of sport, we can't tell the dirty fans from the clean world of sports, sport is dirty today, what happens here without doing anything and even in terms of video surveillance. But in front of the national minority club, I want to mention two things mostly. The first is the one concerning the original foundations, preambles, this Constitution, we absolutely agree that Bosniaks and Slovenians once again after being expelled, again become part of the Constitution, of course our wish and our proposal to enter, not only did it say the opposition before, and the sooner it was stressed by Mr Grubisic, not only Roma, because I was Mr Memedi when he made the proposal to correct what about Roma was never in the Constitution of Croatia for them there was never room for them, he did not give it because he was modest, because he just did not propose that only Roma go in but that all minorities go in, here are Albanians, Montenegrins, in Istria are absolutely autochtons in Peru. There are other national minorities, and since sociologically it is very possible to determine indigenousness, and define autochtonicity, and in everyday life it is a direct explanation, the autochton is precisely known in which part of Croatia is which minority of autochton but it is impossible, Mrs. Ingrid, there we are. But it is impossible to legally define autochtony then it is best to list all national minorities and we will insist on it, I have said that, however, I say that we are happy and satisfied that the promoter himself has reclassified Slovenians and Roma. These two facts, the needs for other minorities, what's proposed, don't rule out, we're just asking it to be complemented. The second is the question of the so-called question. Additional voting rights, i.e. Article 15 of this Constitution which is not touched at this time. I will read this article 15, so that it is clear to everyone about what, that part, that paragraph: "The law can provide the members of national minorities with a special right to choose their representatives in the Croatian Parliament," the additional voting right is the Constitutional category. This can not in any Western civilization be explained differently than that it can, and not as it tries here every time we want to change the Law of Elections, to interpret it as not necessary. It's infantile interpretation, I guess the kids say it can mean it doesn't have to. If you tell someone that you can, do it, he realizes that he can, doesn't realize that he doesn't have to, or the child doesn't realize that he doesn't have to, just in this House, it's how it's interpreted regardless of the party in power. When one party comes to power she's convinced it can mean no, when it comes down from power then she's convinced it can mean yes. It would be good if, while not in power yet, that party puts what they think in writing, so I think that we are on a good path, we will support the proposal to change that article in the sense that there is nothing, for me there is no doubt at all now, however, if someone suggests that this can be taken down, regardless of what there should be a need for it, we will absolutely support it, but in any case we will give as Mr. Pupovac said one proposal conclusion in which it will be clear that it will change. I know what the remarks will be, the remarks will be that we have not signed in which direction it will change with the Prime Minister before, or with Prime Minister Kosor now. That's true, but on how it's going to change, about how we're going to solve this problem, it's going to depend, because that's our first request, it's going to depend on whether we support the government or not. It's a very simple calculation. No one has to respect the Constitution, however, then no one has to respect the agreements that are, if one side does not respect them. We will propose such a conclusion and see if everyone in the party in power feels the same way as the Prime Minister when she told us that this problem will be resolved by the end of this year. We are not sure that everyone thinks so, we will be safe when we propose such a conclusion and then accordingly we will probably treat the thread, of course how who, but I believe that we will, that most national minority representatives will have such an opinion, since they have already signed such an opinion. Here, we will, of course, support that with all those proposals that we have made and which are contained in the conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, we will support the launch of this initiative to change the Constitution, but I hope that it is taken seriously what I said today about possible problems and obstacles from here to the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40246	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Radin, speaking of this disgrace yesterday in Varazdin, you said that the existing Law on the Prevention of Rios in Sports Stadiums is already sufficiently rigorous. Unfortunately not, and in this House, my amendment has been rejected, which would oblige the police to break up the sports game when such things happen, and there is only one obligation left to interrupt when health, lives, people and property are at risk. My request for an amendment to the Sport Act has been rejected where sports alliances would be legally obliged to assume responsibility and interrupt such sports games. "At first there was a word," she wouldn't listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40248	And there's a word. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40249	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the Constitution before Christmas 1990 created fundamental assumptions for the independence of the Republic of Croatia. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club believe that these constitutional changes are largely in line with the recent membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, and that our entry into the European Union is in line with the values and standards of the European Union. We believe that the amendments will improve the content of the Constitution and thus pave the way for amending several laws so that European practices and principles can be brought to life with us and we hope to correct a number of illogicalities and perhaps certain injustices. We in the Croatian peasant party believe that the way to the final proposal or, as we have heard the joint draft today, we consider it a good model because it allows enough time to involve all interested people in this process, interested associations, citizens and clearly all of our Croatian public. This model requires maximum dialogue, and the dialogue when adopting this document is needed and welcome. We are convinced that this will not only be declarative changes or alignment but that these changes will help European norms and rules to live with us in the Republic of Croatia in reality, or in practice. As part of its preparation for membership in the European Union, the Republic of Croatia adapts the entire legal, economic and administrative system. The criteria require the harmonisation of legislation and the strengthening of administrative capacities and reforms which include, in part, the reform of the fundamental functions and competences of individual state bodies and institutions. Membership in the European Union also includes the transfer of certain constitutional powers to the institutions of the European Union of direct legal effect and the application of European Union law and the guarantee of certain rights to citizens of the European Union in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The need for certain constitutional changes was also warned by the European Union during the accession negotiations process in a number of negotiating chapters. Thus, certain constitutional changes are identified as a direct condition, i.e. as criteria for closing certain chapters. We believe that, in order to complete the accession negotiations and to ensure an adequate constitutional and legal basis for accession as well as the effective functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, it is necessary to approach the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in this way. In the HSS we also want to point out to us a very important area relating to the area of action of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, although we have seen here today, in most cases we are talking about a referendum or even taking advantage of the opportunity, so a large number or part of the time we have used for problems in football while this is an extremely important and far more important issue for me. Therefore, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states in Article 7 that the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia protect its sovereignty and independence, defend its territorial integrity and that they can cross its borders or act beyond its borders only on the basis of a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The proposed amendment redefines the role and behaviour of the Armed Forces after the conclusion of the North Atlantic Armed Forces Treaty, and the attack on any NATO Member State will be considered an attack on the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia will be required to protect the sovereignty and independence of the attacked state. The constitutional definition of the role of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should cover 4 basic missions and tasks of the Armed Forces defined by the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Allies, the participation in crisis operations abroad and participation in measures to build security and trust and help civil institutions and countries. We also point out the importance of Article 31, which states that there is no statute of limitations prescribed by law and committed in the process of conversion and privatisation for which we in the Croatian peasant party and in particular advocate, and on a number of occasions we pointed out as the need to regulate it in this way. This provision also stipulates that the property benefit achieved by those works will be subtracted. This addition to the constitutional text introduced the Institute for the Non-depreciation of Crimes committed in the process of conversion and privatisation because these works are considered both in public and in professional circles, extremely difficult, and it is necessary for them to justly and justifiablely deny the application of the Institute of Obsolescence, especially in view of the times of the circumstances and the consequences that have been committed. During the implementation of the conversion and privatisation, the expected economic effects, i.e. conversion and privatisation, did not have a more significant positive effect on the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary. The implementation of conversion and privatisation resulted in an increase in internal and external debt, a significant increase in the number of unemployed persons, a disproportionate and rapid wealth of individuals on the one hand and an unfair poverty of many others on the other. A real drop in wages and pensions relative to the cost of life, and a number of other consequences. It is also fair in the spirit of international law that perpetrators of such serious crimes are deprived of the possibility of becoming obsolete and avoiding criminal responsibility by applying the institute. The foundation of the Institute of Obsolescence is a guarantee of legal certainty for citizens. However, it is certain that this institute should not go in favour of the perpetrator of serious crimes which, through old age, practically enables the legalisation of the effects of such acts. More importantly, we send this message that there are no protected persons when it comes to serious criminal offences, including converted crime. We hope this will encourage the State's Attorney's Office, courts to be even more effective and thus resolve the important issue that has been frustrating Croatian public and citizens of the Republic of Croatia for years. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club believe that these changes and complement the constitutional rights of our citizens and strengthen the role of state institutions, give greater importance to local and regional self-government, we believe that the proposed changes go in the right direction, create basic conditions for the arrival of good compromise solutions and ensure the functioning of constitutional and legal order in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40250	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40251	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, members of the government, State Secretary. First, I would like to refer to the Prime Minister's statement of the other day, which corresponds to the opposition's remarks that there should still be a little delay in constitutional changes, that the haste is in order to wrap up negotiations for the European Union in time. And then, in light of the reasons for the constitutional changes, the criteria number 17, 23, 24, 32, which Europe gave to Croatia, so the homework that we have to do in order to complete these negotiations. Those standards aren't since yesterday, not three days ago, not three months ago, but since last year. So it was clear last year that for Croatia to enter the European Union we would have to change the Constitution, not because of the referendum, but because of these criteria relating to the area of economic monetary policy, justice, justice and financial supervision. It's been waiting too long. I ask myself one more question, whether the essence, content or significance of these constitutional changes is so great that the existing article 86 should be applied. The Constitution and ask citizens in a referendum do they accept these constitutional changes? I think so. Because these amendments to the Constitution, we are now enrolling in the Constitution this year a provision to transfer some of our sovereign powers to the European Union. And then the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia will be this. That's what it says in the amendments and additions to this Constitution. So the time has matured for the Croatian political elite to be free of the burden of difficult decisions and take responsibility for constitutional changes and ask the citizens if they have prepared a good proposal. Article 31 on the non-deprecated privatisation crime in a provision as proposed, I fear that the citizens of this country will create a new false hope that injustices from privatisation will be removed. As false hope for the citizens was also the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. They were waiting for the results, the results came and stored in the archives. And this constitutional norm will be entered into the Constitution, people will have great expectations and later be disappointed, and it will be our fault. For the exit of the Armed Forces outside the border of the Republic of Croatia, it is not acceptable for me to reduce the two-thirds majority, and how much fear there is before the citizens of this country, the fact and the existing provision of the Constitution, that changes in the borders of this country can also be done without a referendum. However, Article 82 now receives, in my view, a qualitative correction, to seek a two-thirds decision by the Parliament. So far, there has been no provision in the Constitution that the majority of parliament can accept any changes in borders. And I remind you that soon, on the agenda of this Assembly, there will be an agreement on resolving the border issue with Slovenia and that by voting on this agreement, we will agree to arbitration and in advance accept the decision of arbitration, that we will actually vote on possible changes in the border. By accepting a proposal for a way to resolve the dispute with the Slovenians, we will decide in advance on possible changes in the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Does this mean that this agreement with the Slovenians will also be sought by the two-thirds majority, if these constitutional provisions were voted before that, the changes voted in the Parliament? State Judicial Council and State Attorney's Council. So far, the Constitution has listed how to choose. Now, the provision of a choice by me of an extremely important two bodies in the domain of the judiciary, we delete and say that we will settle it by law. Therefore, the Constitution no longer resolves the way in which the State Attorney's Council and the State Judicial Council are elected, only prescribes their composition. It's easy to figure out why. And I hope those laws will at least be interpreted as organic. Article 141 and that unfortunate referendum. First, I could not agree with my colleague Milanovic that a referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union could be followed by Article 86 of the ordinary referendum. But I'm worried about something else. In addition to the text of amendments and additions, the Constitution has a lot of public statements of those who worked on its text and it seems to me that I understand well about the number of responses and results for the new formulation that is now entered into the Constitution to actually mean the following, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia we call diaspora, therefore those who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, will not count in the number of total voters registered but will have the right to vote as they have so far. Their voices, the fallen votes will count on the results of the referendum. So there won't be 4 million 400 eligible voters and 2 million 200 needed to get out, but that figure will be reduced by 396 about how many there are. So I understood not only the text of the Constitution but also some subsequent statements. But I allow myself to be misunderstood. But with this provision, it is actually a startling fact that the number of voters in this country has reached the number of inhabitants, and if the referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union is not a strong enough argument to clear first of the law on residence, the Law on Election Lists and the composition of a final new list of voters, then I don't know what it should be, and we've had enough time. Let us use this and these constitutional changes and this expected European referendum to finally clarify and remove all dubiosis from the voters' list. Article 141a, which is added to the Constitution, which is visible from the reasons, is, in fact, now a sign of the transfer of power to the institutions of the European Union. So, by the way, Mr. Vice President, and in your explanation, if the Lisbon Treaty enters into force, in light of Article 141.b, I hope that the President of the Czech Klaus will last put the paraphras into effect and that this document will come into force. It may be directed and good and that the Croatian Parliament offers representatives and in its archives the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, which is amended by the Lisbon Treaty, as it becomes an integral part of our legislation. And I'm done with the next one. Article 141b uses the term that the work of the Council and the European Council shall be attended by the Prime Minister or by the President of the State depending on the subject. The word "in the Council" was probably meant by the Council of the European Union, which is also called the Council of Ministers and almost rarely only by the Council as in the shortened variant, so I would suggest that we do not use in the State Constitution the shortened terms of the European Union institutions but as it is officially translated into the Croatian language, which is the Council of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40252	Thank you. Col. Lesar, Article 8. "The borders of the Republic of Croatia can only be changed by a decision of the Croatian Parliament." This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution brings two-thirds of all votes to the Croatian Parliament.".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40253	So I commended this dorado that's now being done.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40254	Please determine the quorum to supplement the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. With a debate on the proposal for a Decision on the Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitution. It's Mr. Representative Damir Caine's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40256	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the House of Representatives, representatives of the Government. What I failed to do before I spoke in front of the club to say, which I failed to finish, I think it would be a good idea if, through some form, I could put in our constitution a provision on the direct selection of MPs. Why? I suppose that would strengthen Parliament's normal position in this way, and that would probably strengthen the position of our citizens. One word would thus strengthen parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia. Whether it will happen primarily depends clearly on the strongest parties, but I think those patterns from the direct election we had in '92. Or '95. It certainly helped the credibility, among other things, of this House, but above all Croatian politics. The second thing I want to note is this provision on the half-dominated majority regarding sending troops outside the Republic of Croatia. It's normal for the IDS club to advocate the two-thirds majority, and I personally advocate the return of the army from Afghanistan. Unfortunately, our young men will start to die there. I'm asking myself a question for who, for what? For one lost mission in which the new American President Obama has the impression that he is capable of less or worse than Bush himself. I stand for three clearly and for the double right of minority vote. If twice the right to vote in a way, based on these provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as of tomorrow, so to speak, I can also have citizens of the European Union who will have a residence here, if the double right to vote can have a Croatian diaspora, it is not a good diaspora from Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I suppose that this double right should also be given to members of the national minority communities in the Republic of Croatia, rather than to punish those political groups representing their positions with the absence of that double right of voting de facto. In fact, I dare say that we are not even punishing voters from the ranks of national minorities, but we are punishing parties whose worldview is that they are in some way identifying themselves with members and members of national minorities. Which, for example, is... Is it going on in one Istria? If someone wants to vote, for example. It is not important now for an Italian representative then he cannot clearly vote for the party so that this transparent game, I dare say to HDZ, brings a large amount of irregularity to the elections, and to HDZ always a few more mandates. Unfortunately, it should be fair and admit that when we warned about it in 2000 when Parliament changed the Constitution twice, and then the 3rd coalition was in power, there was also no understanding of what I was talking about. What saddes me most is that the representatives of the national minorities about it are becoming less and less if they even speak. Third, the conversion I was talking about, I've been talking about reviewing for 17, 18 years. I no longer trust simply no one on this issue that anything in this country will be resolved and regulated, and at least I trust the judiciary that should sanction these behaviours. In the country, let's go under quotes, crime, the bought-out judiciary, in the country by the capital of the dependent media, I think eventually the audit will come down on that one, Royce: "Whoever pits, pits!". I'd love to be wrong, but no one's just gonna convince me that this power regarding the audit is serious, and that's where it's supposed to go from here. To be clear, even the 3rd of January has done nothing about it, but this is where it should really go because the transformation that was made during the war is equally a war crime, and such a war crime must not go out of date in any way. It is clear that all those who participate or participate in the economy are not criminals and them, these honest people, caps down. A drop down and some who with their money got into that privatisation, but I'm sure I won't say that 99 or 96%, is in an extremely immoral way something that wasn't supposed to belong to them by human or God's laws. All honours and those I don't know, were involved in protecting their workers from hostile takeovers under quotes, that's the notion we now associate with the "Podravka" that is often used, but I'm sure 95, 96% of the conversion, privatisation is done in one extremely immoral way, and this gang should just ask: "well, gentlemen, tell us how you got to the first million euros, to the first million dollars, Swiss francs or something like that." One who can't answer that Understandably that this property should be returned to his people. The one with the quotes. Another question that should also be put into the provisions of this Constitution for me is the position of our protected tenants, for example. These people in the Republic of Croatia, in fact, those apartments where they live, have about 5 grand. It is certainly one of the most unprotected, most discriminated against categories of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If we now have an institute of non-depreciation for conversion, perhaps the Constitution should ban and dissuading them, review that denationalisation under quotes of apartments where they live, and in fact we all know that tomorrow some of them and their families are going to throw them out on the street. We made this unfortunate law an injustice from '47, '48. Or 50 and some of us solve each other with an even greater injustice or an equal of such injustice, throwing these people out of their lofts under the quotes of their apartments. Nationalization was certainly an injustice like this turning people out of their homes. It's an injustice squared that needs to be stopped at this point. Another gentleman of the institute, which has actually been "applying" in the Republic of Croatia for a long time, is the famous article of the 180th former Law on Mandatory Relations, which has been abolished in order to prevent the restoration of houses, watch out for mined outside war zones, I call it "one patriotic terrorism". Why? Because those houses were tearing down guys in our uniforms, it doesn't matter if it's police or military uniforms. So just like that, you've got 600 of those broken houses that were destroyed outside of the war zone. They are clearly destroyed by dynamite, they are not renewed, and these people do not have the right to rebuild, which, for example, people in those areas that were occupied during the war, which is something that should at least take account of or correct that injustice as well. Let me just say a few words about something the Constitution is talking about, but not enough. It's decentralisation. Croatia has all been getting along a lot lately. Among other things, it goes backwards because of this "metropolisation", or centralisation. Clearly, metropolisation is not the fault of the Zagreb authorities, it is the fault of the authorities. But the fact is that the periphery is largely backward and almost destroyed. This periphery outside of Zagreb has run out of industry, no jobs, no source resources anymore, only to see what is the state of Slavonia, Lika, the hinterland of Dalmatia and the like. I think something radical should change about that in this Constitution. Croatia has full right there in '71. She asked for a change to the Constitution, she asked for a return to her foreign currency, one financial independence. But how today some politicians who may have robbed for this country do not mention the need for decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia. How can we integrate the country? Well, we can integrate it with one decentralisation, certainly not with this kind of centralization. And just one more detail, Mr. Vice President, former President of the Croatian Parliament, when it comes to conversion, or privatisation. You see, one of the MPs sitting here recently said, so what if I fail, so I'm left with 100 million euros in real estate. Here's when we start reviewing conversion through this institute of non-depreciation, I think we should start with these examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40257	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40258	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There is no need to idealise the situation in Croatia, but if the situation in Croatia were as the colleague Cain often says, indeed none of us would want to live in such a country. But actually through the replica, I want to say something else. A colleague of Cain is almost always equating the politics of all governments in Croatia from the 1990s to today. And he's talking today about how the 2000 coalition government failed to carry out the audit, and then at the same time speaking the results of the audit. So, the review was carried out. What both the government and Parliament should have done was done. She did it in a satisfactory way for all of us, the State Audit Office, which the judiciary didn't do what had to be done. That's Croatia's problem. This is what we are talking about today, and we are often warned about this from the European Union as well. However, we will not solve the problem only if we introduce non-agency of converted crime into the Constitution, it will be necessary to make certain amendments to other laws in order to implement it. However, I would like to warn that it is not only a crime in conversion, crime is in all segments of the economy and after conversion and it will be very long. And if we don't legally regulate economic crime properly and properly, it will continue to take place. If the laws are good, that doesn't mean crime will be prevented. But if there's a will in society to sanction him, then that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40259	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40260	Well, it is not true, Madam Representative, that I am equating the coalition and this authority, but it is uncontestable that we are today discussing amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that this Constitution has been changed on several occasions, twice. And after the third of January, after the coalition in which IDS was held for a year and two months. So we changed that constitution twice, and we forgot to carry out the first revision of the conversion, we forgot to give double the right to vote to the national communities, we forgot to include Bosniaks and Slovenians who were deleted there in '98. A year. No one thought of Roma at the time. We forgot, for example. The Constitution lays down a provision that the budget of the Republic of Croatia, weighing 120 billion kuna, must be adopted by a half-dominated majority. In fact, we've actually deleted those provisions to have a larger committee of conduct. I don't think that was correct, I don't think that was good, I think it was something that in some way "compromised" that third January administration, and among other things, the party that I'm a member of. I think if we want to criticize this government, and we have to, because we have a reason why, then we have to be at least one small dose self-critical and self-inflicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40261	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try to limit my debate to only a few topics, although the issue of change is a very broad framework. Because as we know, the Constitution is the fundamental law of every organized society. What I want to say at first is the dissatisfaction with the way in which the procedure is going, or the way it is promised to continue this process. There is no doubt that constitutional changes should be approached with the greatest possible attention, with the greatest concentration possible and with the greatest responsibility possible. And this also means with the highest degree of public insight into what the Croatian Parliament will do in this process. It has been shown for years but this is the only opportunity for us to enter the European Union that has made what has been shown and which has been pushed under the carpet finally sees the light of day, which is that the existing Constitution in many of its provisions has not reached that level of democratic standards that we want for our country. So it is definitely clear that it will not be possible to surgically change this Constitution and call for changes to be as short as possible and as soon as possible is not good. Namely, I would like to warn our colleagues with whom we will do most of this Croatian Parliament in the future that HDZ will never allow what we allow now and that is the consensual adoption of the Constitution. So if we don't solve some open questions now, we won't solve them in the second term. What are these questions that I want to especially highlight here? It's a question called the so-called question. The additional voting rights that many unwittingly call so-called. A double right to vote. I will remind you that since its independence, the Republic of Croatia has already had the experience of additional voting rights and that it has been phased out since the first democratic elections. What actually happened to this constitutional provision in Article 15(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? The constitution where we have ultimatically asked all of our citizens who are members of the national minorities to choose whether to vote in territorial electoral units, so use their general right to vote, or getoise and exclusively be able to vote in their minority election units. In practice, thousands and thousands of people have experienced great humiliations, inconveniences, ridicules, and it is not rare that they were forced to vote solely in their national minority election units to prevent them from expressing their true political will. The result is that almost 80% of all people who go to elections in national minority electoral units fall because the Croatian Parliament enters those units with a much smaller number of votes than it enters territorialally, which is normal but there is no way that 80% of people whose votes fail in these election units are entitled to their general right of voting and say their political preferences. And then what did we get? We got it that 80% of the people in one constituency don't have a representative at all. I have the right to say that as a member of the German national minority. In this Croatian Assembly, I am represented by my colleague, Nazif Memedi. ... And it doesn't represent me very well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What he's doing is not a good representation. But I'm not going to talk about it here for college reasons. The additional right to vote is the democratic valve of all societies where national minority communities have an important and profound lead in the history of the majority people. Let us remember the Croatian National Revival and count the Croatian giants who were not of Croatian origin. Should it be remembered that Ljudevit Gaj was a Franco-German Croat, should it be remembered that Stanko Vraz was a decapitated Slovenian, should it be remembered that August Shenoa was taken away by the Czech, should the memory of Dimitri Demeter of the Greek, should Peter Preradović be remembered as a Serb, should the right hand of Ban Jelačić of his wife, Count von Stockau, or the left hand of Baron Neustether? These are all Croatian giants who at a given time when the Croatian people needed everything they knew, everything they had, everything they could get into the idea of a national rebirth. Why? Because at this point, the Croatian national being was relaxed and completely certain that members of national minorities could give very much and that they would give much, and the results of this rebirth have been seen to this day. These are the brightest moments in the history of the majority people that resulted in the construction of civil society in the late 19th century. God gave as much time as possible that the majority people have no frustration towards minority communities in Croatia because he is on his own, he is the most numerous, the greatest, and no one will ever take away his freedom again. Another thing I want to mention here, colleague Cain touched her and that's the question of nationalization. The constitutional categories of ownership, unfortunately, have not solved the problems arising from the denationalisation or recovery of the seized assets in the period of totalitarian regimes. And there is no party in the Croatian Parliament that has no butter on its head, so we understand each other. From the first day of Croatia's independence to today, few who can say that she has had a hearty approach to solving this problem and that she has done everything she can to correct this injustice. The Act on the Compensation of property seized during the communist rule solves nominally all types of seized property except one. He gave the Croatian Parliament then the task of the Croatian government to report within six months on what and how to do with the property of former land communities. To this day, the government has done nothing. One, the other, the third. Yell this injustice unto God. These are hundreds of thousands of people who paid the country for long and hard work and acquired the right to participate, and in 47 C.E., the Parliament seized them without the right to compensation. We're running away from it. It is time for Croatia to understand its obligation, for the state to understand its commitment to citizens because a country that has its roots at least a small-scale robbery cannot realise the capacity of the rule of law and we must be aware of that. The return of that property and other forms of seized property in an unfair, immoral or illegal way is our obligation. And this is the time when one sentence in the Constitution should allow for it to finally be resolved, not that this property is used for mutilation, robbery, reselling, speculant maneuvers, as is now the case with state agricultural land and other forms of seized property. How can we look these people in the eye and flee from the truth? We need to do everything we can to reach such solutions in the months ahead that will satisfy the highest level of public expectations. In this sense do not rush, do not hide rather than show the public the draft and allow public insight into what we are doing. That's the only way we're going to justify the mission of the people's representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40263	Thank you. Mr. Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of the Croatian government. My colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I welcome the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the accession to the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to express my satisfaction with the preparedness of this joint project by all of us, both members of the government and its partners and members of the opposition. It is good that we have agreed to go with the two-thirds majority, because practically each of us and as members of individual parties and individually we will have the opportunity to express all of our wishes, the desire to make the new Constitution transparent to the European Union and in some way express the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry that Madam Prime Minister, the Prime Minister is not with us. But I would like to quote her words immediately because she made it clear at first that she was ready to listen to any proposal, either by those who support the government, either by the opposition, and in this context, it seems to me that I could say a proposal here orally, if necessary in writing. On this proposal, I was kind of driven by the decision and the willingness to make the Croatian National Bank, to manifest its independence. And although we all who follow the work of Željko Rohatinski can already say he really acts independently, but it is good, it is also good to say in the Constitution that the formulation of the independence of the National Bank. And that's a good thing. In this direction, I would suggest that also one of the same important institutions and a very important institution in the Republic of Croatia be granted independence status. The word about the State Statistical Office of the Republic of Croatia and as a professor of statistics I have had numerous contacts with my colleagues who have somehow warned me that in many countries, here I suggest, we open the website of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and you will see in the first few words they highlight their independence. Perhaps this independence is also needed for some other reasons, because many of the information given by the State Statistics Office to both the Government and other users significantly determine the conduct of certain services in the Republic of Croatia. It doesn't matter if they realize that prices have increased by 2%, 5% or dropped 1%, so we need to know that it's an independent body in which the waist and generates that behavior. So once again, I think as we are all going to support the National Bank of Croatia's status as an independent institution, I think the State Statistics Office should also have that same status. I stress, many of my colleagues in conversation with me have in some ways suggested that I say it here. Besides, there's one more moment. We, at least members of national minorities, are reminded of the 2001 census and we know well what has been done and that there has been a drastic decidation of members of national minorities. And here without some big fences, I'm going to say that it's the State Statistics Office and some parts have done a little bit of a bad thing, so when we talk about the number of members of some national minorities, it's certainly not a real reflection of the actual situation. But enough about it. I will focus to the greatest extent on the government's decision to return to the preamble of the Croatian Constitution of Bosniaks and Slovenians. I stress that, when I entered the Croatian Parliament in the first term, I supported the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader, HDZ and in one of the first articles we stressed when the change to the Constitution was made to return Bosniaks and Slovenians would be incorporated into this act. Since there was no change in the Constitution in that term, we remain only in that formulation. In 2007, I was re-elected as the Croatian Parliament and we reiterated that provision and thank God that we came to this situation that there was a change in the Constitution and, of course, I thank the presidents of the Croatian Government and the strongest party who respected that provision that the return of Bosniaks and Slovenians to the Croatian Constitution is something that is a natural act. But parallel to that decision and the willingness of everyone to accept this as a fact. I'm surprised with the behavior of colleagues from the National Minorities Club, from the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, where they are, instead of discussing some fundamental elements why it is so and what the decision is to '97. Bosniaks and Slovenians will be expelled from the Constitution. What adverse consequences have come to pass. And what harmful consequences today are members of the Bosniak minority. Instead, one of the creators of the amendments that the Bosniaks and Slovenians were expelled from Furio Radin, he offers us a completely different situation in his report. He says, I quote, there was no dispute in the debate on the inclusion of these two national minorities in the text of the Constitution, but asked the question of what criteria was being used by the proposer when he decided to supplement with only two of the said minorities, he seemed to forget '97. the year that these two minorities were excluded. He already wants us to have this debate where he's set up as some kind of judge, an interpreter by which it should be different. Still why some other minorities are not involved, etc. I repeat, Bosniaks still have many adverse consequences today. All I'd like to mention is a census in 2001. '91. The year of the Bosniaks was 45 thousand, 2001 somewhere around 21,000. The truth another 21 thousand were Bosniaks who were then on the list of voters led by our religious name Muslim with a large M. The same situation hit Slovenians, 40% of Slovenians were practically reduced from the 2001 census to 1991. It is certainly something that has had a negative effect and I hope that all of us together will make one quality proposal, and that the return of Bosniaks and Slovenes will be something in itself normal. If the Government insists that other minorities be included, then if nothing else I will have one moral pleasure to say thanks to my initiative and Roma and others have been returned and included in the preamble of the Croatian Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40265	Thank you. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40266	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So, of course, for me personally and for the Croatian party of pensioners there are positive solutions that are given to the draft decision, i.e. in the proposal for a draft constitutional amendment. Of course, praise is certainly the independence and autonomy of the judicial authority, to praise the proposal that judges of the Constitutional Court are elected in the Croatian Parliament by a more qualified majority, i.e. two-thirds majority. However, of course it is the order to be commended first, and then to say your critical review, and my critical review will go on three to four, four points covering this draft. First of all, I think that we do not bring amendments and additions to the Constitution for our own sake and for the political elite in Croatia, but to bring amendments to the Constitution because of our citizens and that we are obliged to provide them with a minimum of public debate. My proposal is to conclude that within 60 days of this debate, the Government came up with and held a public debate in a horizontal way, so that the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, 21 counties and by vertical means should be covered by certain structures of society, academic community, economics, social partners, etc., because all those who will practically base their rights on this fundamental law of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think that's as problematic as a possible lack of a willing moment. We have nothing to hide from our people, we have nothing to hide from our citizens and we have to involve them in this story, not exclude them from this together. And I don't think a 60-day deadline is too long or too short, and it's possible to do that. Secondly, of course it is commendable that there is the mood of the promoters to put all the national minorities that are included in the electoral law in the preamble to the Constitution and to me that is what I am looking forward to. I know that national minorities are the wealth of every country and I also know and I should say openly that this change does not create any new costs in the state budget and that it is indeed a positive gesture of goodwill, a positive gesture of political will, and I don't think there are any who would be against it. But I have one question for the government. The question is, what did the Government of the Republic of Croatia do, in principle, to recognise the Croatian minority? We are neighbours, we are constantly negotiating something, we are going to do all this lege artis, but the Croatian minority in Slovenia is not recognised. Therefore, it is nice to do good, but we should also talk about it, and put others in the ear that they do the same, as President Bebic said in a recent meeting with Macedonian Parliament President I know you do not have much money, but at least symbolically put in your budget the Croatian minority in Macedonia. I think that's how it should be done at all levels, from the parliamentary level to the foreign affairs. This impressed me, Article 18, as it was written. I have to, I'm impressed by the creativity of the lawyers who wrote this, because it can legally stand, but mathematically it doesn't stand. It literally writes in the referendum to the majority of voters who voted in the Republic of Croatia, provided that most of the voters joined the referendum. That's not true. It would be true: "In the referendum, the minority of voters who voted in the Republic of Croatia are elected, provided that most of the voters joined the referendum." Because a million and 150 thousand voters who would say there's a minority in that referendum, not a majority. It is said here that the majority, says I repeat in the referendum, is decided by most voters who voted in the Republic of Croatia. I would be satisfied with a different formulation, which would read: "A decision was taken in the referendum if the referendum was approached by a semi-half-capital majority of voters established by the voter list, and if most of the citizens who joined the referendum had spoken to the referendum on the referendum issue." And not here we're talking about deciding most voters, which is not true. It's mathematically not true, and legal creativity allows a lot of things, there are other qualified majority, but my personal opinion that there are two fears here. The first is fear if it remains what the Constitution says today, that so many voters will not go to the polls, and the second is if they liberalise it as there is one number of European countries to decide most of those who come out to come out much more against joining the EU. So we must find a solution between these two fears. So, if it's possible for this to be mathematically and legally aligned, I'd be asking for the interventions of lawyers I really admire about creativity. Secondly, if the fourth one, if I understood this correctly, I'm diagnosing a problem called, or the question would be the following: how many of us actually have living voters in Croatia and abroad, let someone tell me, and then we'll be very easy to solve this problem. So the key question from whom we should have started is how many living voters we have in Croatia and abroad, from that parameter we can plan all other actions and I ask that someone answer me that I do not have to ask parliamentary questions to the members of the government. This is how we say that most minorities are and the minority is the majority, which is in the long term unacceptable to deceive ourselves and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If I get it right here, we'll have three discussions, this is a debate, or four debates. This is a debate on the draft proposal and will be another one on the draft proposal, so we will discuss a draft proposal that should be united with the draft of the two to discuss the final proposal for the third time. I like it so much, and it should be clear to everyone. These two first and proposal drafts and draft proposals are made by a supra-almost majority of all MPs and the third final two-thirds majority of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I said this just to make it clear to myself that I was right, and that we all understand what's waiting for us, at least three more discussions on this issue and then why don't we have a public debate. Still, it is easy and I am glad to include in the amendment and supplementation that crime in conversion and privatisation do not go out of date but that is not enough, we in the Constitution have that we are a state of social justice, that we respect the right of the apartment but that is not enough. So, if we're going to say that the crimes in privatisation don't go out of date, then we have to say that after this we have to pass the property origin law that we know what someone had in '90s, and then we're going to find out if they paid all the taxes to the state or not, and then we're just going to find out what crime is and what isn't. Because crime isn't just what is revealed, it's what isn't revealed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40267	Thank you very much. One replica Mr. Zdenko Franjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40268	I didn't want to get up because I'm not Goran Franjic. There are 820 voters at home in Vinjani, lower number 902. So I give you this as an illustration of your debate. These can be quantum effects because they actually get into each other like wave functions in quantum physics.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40269	According to the reply to the replica, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40270	So, I'm familiar with these deviations, the list of voters or voters' lists, and that's why one of my conditions is to vote yes or no, with a handful of good things that bear these changes, be it to wipe and touch dead souls from the electoral lists or not, and not just dead souls. I have a case of my secretary whose brother changed his last name, died in Canada, he can't be erased because of our administration from the voter list, because instead of "Ic" that "Ich" came at the end and now we're so hard to keep these people in election lists which will produce that in one 50 years we'll have 130 year olds on election lists that have been dead for 50 years. I think we can handle it in a much simpler way than we do now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40271	According to official data from the Central State Administration Office on 5 October of this year in the Republic of Croatia with residence in the Republic of Croatia, 4 million 85 thousand and 460 voters were enrolled, and in the central record recorded by the number of voters, hence the adult Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia 394 thousand and 15 voters or a total of 4 million 475 voters. And now... Yeah, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And five minutes of debate on behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40272	Mr. Vice President means in Croatia we have 4 million 85 thousand 460 voters with residence plus 394 thousand 15 of these from the diaspora, so at this point we have about 30, 40 thousand more than the Republic has residents. Normally there aren't any kids on this record, but good. I am the same opinion among other things and that because of this detail this Constitution must be changed. This proposal I think the opposition is far better than what we have on the table, but good and we'll discuss it. I think we need to change the Constitution as soon as possible, if for nothing, let's say for the sake of this arrest warrant that criminals from one country don't flee to another and vice versa, that they don't make fun of the values of a civilized community that we're seeking. I don't go into court now, they can be like this or like that, but surely if I could, the fugitives in Croatia wouldn't be welcome. In the bunker with them like with Jelavic and across the border. Unfortunately, this arrest warrant should concern Bosnia and Herzegovina and vice versa and vice versa, however, the arrest warrant does not concern either Bosnia or Serbia but concerns criminals hiding in the European Union where we already know that they do not have the right of citizenship and that they will be relatively quick, easy and easy to get back to the Republic of Croatia. A man really asks himself how it's possible to say someone convicted, for example. for war crimes can move freely between Bosnia and Herzegovina or Serbia anyway, or Croatia, and that the country that receives them, aside from its citizenship, does nothing, but is solidarity with the alleged criminal. Either judge him or bring him back from where he came from. That is why I am for constitutional changes, but in this part the Constitution does not change. Secondly, here I was recently replicated by a simple majority of this budget. Who introduced that? Well introduced by the Constitutional Court judge Mr. Mato Arlovic. So January 3rd coalition. Who was against that provision? Kramaric and Cain. Then the two-thirds majority for the Constitutional Court judges. Absolutely, even if it can turn into a store that's often worse than if someone later appointed judges themselves because we see what happened there in the end of '99. years, but I'm up for that principle absolutely. Fourthly, I absolutely can't have a Croatian soldier outside the border of the Republic of Croatia without a two-thirds parliament decision, and these 300 soldiers we have in Afghanistan would be the smartest thing for us to pull them out as soon as possible. Where I have a grudge with this proposal, with these changes, we are in some way weakening this not strengthening Parliament, strengthening the government instead of Parliament, and all this would be achieved if we introduced the principle of direct election of MPs. I absolutely agree that in preamble we also introduce Roma, all minorities, we have always stood up at least we in the IDS for Slovenians, Bosniaks who we did not return even though we should have done so long ago, etc. The diaspora issue should be regulated in an important other way so that in Croatia the vote, in my opinion, whoever lives here, who pays taxes, who until yesterday served here the army, in one word who is born here, dies, and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina must understand that Bosnia and Herzegovina is their homeland. They must contribute to the stability of the country because without stable Bosnia and Herzegovina will not be stable Croatia and vice versa, not for example. Dodik in Mostar to award awards "persons of the Year" among Croats etc. One word and today I think we pay for the mistakes of Tudjman's policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and indeed, as the biggest victims in Bosnia were Muslims, so they become Croats in peace, and only if they do not understand that Bosnia and Herzegovina is their homeland and the capital of Bosnia Sarajevo. And no one, who will be president of Croatia or the government tomorrow, will return to Tudjman's politics to Bosnia and Herzegovina because by doing so, let Bosnia and Herzegovina break Croatia from the inside. And they just have to figure it out. On decentralisation, revision of conversion, etc. I've said something before. I absolutely support the CNB. I support these proposals of the opposition that will be found, and indeed we have to go to review as soon as possible so that some of our colleagues can't claim it, so what if I end up bankrupting me remains 100 million euros or marks or dollars or I don't know what, no more marks, no more euros, not me. I'm afraid she won't stay. What if I end up in bankruptcy, I'll have 100 million euros left in real estate. I mean, respected gentlemen, you just can't get over it anymore. Well, he had someone and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40273	We want you to stay out of bankruptcy. I'm closing the debate. The SDP proposal, the HNS proposal is also expected, and I assume the IDS to approach the amendment of the Constitution and then we will discuss this proposal next week on the Committee on the Constitution and probably when, after that debate on the Committee on the Constitution, we will discuss this second proposal for a change to the Constitution. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40274	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work and get to point two. This is - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Helen Republic on the fight against international illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, international terrorism and organised crime, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 447 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior Mr Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is therefore a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Helen Republic on the fight against international illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, international terrorism and organised crime. This is another in a series of contracts signed by the interior ministry with other countries. So far, all these contracts have proved to be an extremely effective means of co-operation by the police, i.e. the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the interior ministries of other countries with which such agreements have been signed, have led to much better cooperation and more efficiency in the joint fight against various forms of crime, as it is generally the most difficult forms of organised crime of terrorism and other serious forms of crime. I propose that this law be adopted by emergency procedure so that the contract becomes part of the internal legal order and that cooperation between the Ministry of Interior of Greece and Croatia also have a legal framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40276	Thank you. Do the committees want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one in the name of the clubs. But there is an individual debate, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40277	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law confirms the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Helen Republic on the fight against international illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances of international terrorism and organised crime, allowing its provisions to become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Helen Republic on the fight against international trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances of international terrorism and organised crime is a product of common desire to promote, improve and deepen mutual cooperation and assistance, as well as to promote and coordinate actions in the field of combating international illicit trafficking in drug and psychotropic substances, as well as in the field of combating international terrorism and organised crime. For this reason, and since the Croatian Parliament confirms the treaty, which expresses the willingness of the Republic of Croatia to be bound by this Treaty, I support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Helen Republic on the fight against international trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances of international terrorism and organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40278	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40279	Dear Mr. President, I would like to inform you that the Croatian People's Party Club of Liberal Democrats will accept this proposal by welcoming the government's desire to arrange bilateral agreements for relations in this area with as many states as possible, fully aware that trade, drug trafficking, is one of the biggest halls that enables the supply of huge financial resources that are being laundered through mob channels later in such a way that these funds are invested in some economic initiatives, which we already know are just a front for international crime. In this sense, we want the attention of the state services of both the Republic of Croatia and Greece to be raised to the highest possible level, because we have an unpleasant experience behind us, which is the experience of a procedure led against Captain Christ Laptal, who spent several months in prison, so that the worst thing that could happen to him would happen to a man who claims to be innocent, which is that he has been harassed for months and then out of pure peace by a representative of the prosecution, and it was obviously the State's Attorney General in Greece to give up all charges, without any excuse, without any possibility, so that he publicly disproves his guilt, i.e. to receive just compensation. All this requires subsequent major traumas and his present situation in which he clearly can't find a job anymore. Some media have observed the exact opposite of what he was saying, which is that potential employers tend to employ people who, for the sake of their own safety in the future, will pay much more attention to the examination of cargo on board ships, or in all traffics, so that we do not have a plantation that we witness almost daily around the world. In that sense, it is good that the Republic of Croatia and Greece have constant communication channels open in all cases, and even in cases such as this which I hope was such a bilateral agreement, it would certainly be milder, differently guided and with a higher level of influence from the state itself, i.e. state representatives from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40280	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide once the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40281	We're going to vote on the debated agenda points. First. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Helen Republic on the fight against international illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances of international terrorism and organised crime. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get on board. We can vote. The result? With 95 votes in favour and three abstentions, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40282	We're going to try one more item on the agenda. And that is - Report on progress in the fields of speech culture, complete and objective information, the development of public content in the implementation of the public television programme, and the removal of the discussion of possible corruption within HRT is submitted to the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio-Television. The Programme Council submitted this report on the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, adopted on the occasion of the debate on the report on the work of the HRT Council. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Djuro Popijac President of the Croatian Radio-Television Programme Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40283	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here is the report and this was the obligation of the Council of the Croatian Radio-Television based on the Croatian Parliament's Conclusion of 5 December 2008. In the current procedure, the report was discussed by the relevant bodies of the Croatian Parliament and adopted their opinions and proposed the conclusions of this House, of course, to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. I immediately note that the HRT Council does not have its own professional service or is composed of professionals but exclusively of public representatives without the right to compensation, so in such reports we must rely on what is being prepared for us and the Director-General, the HRT Directorate, the editor-in-chief and their professional services. Furthermore, I remind you that there are 11 members of the council and that we adopt these reports by majority of the votes at the sessions that are usually marathon. The average duration is 4 to 5 hours and is maintained at least once a month. The Council is certainly and ready to accept all the remarks which are made to us by distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs as well as members and members of individual parliamentary committees, so I believe that our future documents will certainly be even better and more content. Since that report was delivered by the Council in writing and if you had it in front of you, I would not, at this time, convince its contents but rather stick to the essential parts and I think these are the conclusions which the HRT Council has come to by considering the above issue. Regarding the culture of speech on HR and HTV programmes, the Council concluded that the Ministry of Language and Speech of the HR and HTV professionally carried out their tasks and obliged the editors of emissions and programmes to coordinate the education of journalists in the use of the standard Croatian language in cooperation with these services. In the event that some journalists do not comply with the established rules of conduct in accordance with the general acts of the HRT, they should bear appropriate consequences. For the implementation of this conclusion, the directors of the Croatian Radio and Croatian Television who are required to take part shall be responsible for informing the HRT Council. As regards the objectivity of the information, we agreed with the conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which fully corresponds to the conclusion of the HRT Council, which is still necessary to monitor the situation on HRT continuously with a view to achieving the full independence of this public service, ensuring objective information to the public, strengthening the professionalism of its employees and achieving the highest standard of media action. With several conclusions, the Council also warned the editors of individual shows for bias in individual emissions and repeatedly pointed to the representation of one and the same guests in contact with the emissions resulting in some progress but still insufficient. As regards the development of public content, a general assessment of the HRT Council is that certain shifts have been made in this area in the last two years, however, the fundamental observations of the HRT Council are on dates of broadcasting of such content and the need for them to be really accessible to the audience to which they are intended. The topic of corruption is a topic that is continuously current throughout society, so it should be in Croatian Radio and Television programmes as well as within the house itself. In any event, the HRT programmes should be made more significant moves towards more open journalism in devoid of self-censorship, not falling into sensationalism but retaining the main advantages of HRT and these are given to our legal obligations when it comes to the public role of HRT. And finally, of course, something about the current state from the council's perspective. Today we are witnessing serious problems facing Croatian radio-television, especially the financial situation which makes the council concerned about achieving programme orientations in particular of public content. Although we council members differ in our own worldview and in our way of expression, we are increasingly unique in pointing to the problems facing Croatian Radio-Television today. However, we have witnessed that not only the council members but also recently HRT employees and journalists point to a worrying situation in the house, but it often defends itself with its own actions and justifys "the council", and our opinions, therefore with the opinions of the council and who at least have no real impact on the business of the house. Here, such numerous cases under quotes or perhaps even without them from HRT that we read about daily in various media certainly do not help solve these problems. I have to look back at the last awkward event, I have this opportunity from this pay phone. The Council, therefore, personally on behalf of the council, strongly condemns the transmission of a game from which we could hear a hate speech and what you pointed out from this pay phone this morning. The HRT Council will ask the question of responsibility but also insist on those responsible to find a way to address such losses in the future. The Council will, finally, continue to pay particular attention to raising the reputation and credibility of HRT in the public to the level deserved by one institution of the highest cultural and national values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40284	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Committee on Information, Information and Media Chairman of the Committee Mr Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 23rd session, the Committee on Information, Information and Media considered this report as a parent working body. In the discussion, the board members stressed that during each debate on HRT, they also encouraged a debate on the state of language and speech on public television. The HRT speech is in crisis, but this situation can be successfully overcome. The School of Speech of Croatian Radio has been known in the world, and it is necessary to make additional efforts to restore such a situation. Several objections were also made to objective information. For the first time, too many black chronicles have been observed in information shows and that the same persons as guests are often invited to such shows. Furthermore, as of early July this year, when HTV broadcast a special show with Dr. Ivo Sanader's speech at a party meeting in the evening period of one hour, although he had already resigned as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and that resignation was accepted by the parliament. The opinion has been expressed that Croatian broadcasting has violated the legal provision for the ban on advertising of political parties here, but most board members believe that the HRT has thus fulfilled its role as public television and acted in the interest of the public. Note is given to the term of the "Normal Life" issue of people with disabilities, and attention is also given to the fact that this problem should be represented in other shows, such as sports or information content. After the discussion, the Committee decided unanimously, with 7 votes to, according to the Government's opinion, to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament: "1. A report on progress in the fields of speech culture, complete and objective information is hereby adopted. 2. It undertakes the HRT Programme Council to submit the 2009 Annual Report with a specific reference to the assessment of the state or progress in the field of social, religious and national tolerance in Croatian radio and television programmes." Let me just add that these remarks that have been made today on events at the football game confirm the justification of this second Council conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40286	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40287	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Council of Croatian Television. Fellow representatives. The Croatian Parliament has committed the Council of Croatian Radio Television to prepare and submit the Progress Report in the fields of speech culture, full and objective information and development of public content, with the aim of receiving more information on the implementation of the public television programme and, if necessary, the removal of possible corruption within Croatian broadcasting. The Council of Croatian Radio Television has divided the report into four chapters: speech culture, full and objective information, public content development and measures to remove the discussion of possible corruption within Croatian broadcasting. When it comes to the culture of speech and the correct use of Croatian language, the Council considers this part a strategic task of Croatian broadcasting and considers the state of language and speech on Croatian Radio to be much better than on Croatian television. In order to improve the culture of speech on Croatian TV in the Council, they committed themselves and obliged the editors of the programme to better coordinate the education of journalists in the use of the standard Croatian language in collaboration with Croatian radio and language services. The fact is, however, that the recommendation of the Croatian Television Council was ignored by the editors of Croatian television so that the Council must seriously consider sanctioning those who do not comply with Croatian broadcasting rules in relation to the obligation to consult with the Croatian Television Service. At the beginning of this year, the Educational Centre of Croatian Radio Television for Language and Speech began to work with the aim of better education of journalists and editors of Croatian Radio Television, so that an improvement in language and voice media literacy of journalists and editors of Croatian Radio Television can be expected in the coming period. The education programme includes journalists from regional radio stations and television studios. Education for improving language and speech culture should be included in the job description of journalists, managers and editors on Croatian Radio and there is no need for any additional stimulation. I think it should be entered normally into their job description and that normally it does not need any additional stimulation that would promise to in some way encourage them. It is unacceptable to point out the problem of language and speech in a way that they exist in other television houses, because such justification cannot be accepted from Croatian broadcasting. Croatian broadcasting has all the conditions to maintain a central role in promoting the quality of Croatian language and speech. Therefore, the selection of its staff, as well as existing employees, must take account of their education and competences in order to remain a model for other radio and television companies and therefore we believe that the Croatian Radio and Television Council will show greater satisfaction and better cooperation with Croatian TV editors in solving the problem of language and speech quality. When we talk about full and objective information, Croatian Radio stands much better in this area than Croatian TV because it respects high-level standards, especially in the segment of fast and accurate information, without unnecessary sensationalism inciting information and critical and public debate. Television is a different medium, but that is why you should be careful not to fall into a trap of sensational and superficially developed and unprocessed topics. This occasion should repeat what we have been talking about here several times today, and it should be repeated so that perhaps those powerful editors on Croatian television may hear and perhaps finally do something to think about whether they really need to broadcast events, especially those from sports fields, those who call various nationalist, racist outbursts to violence like this here was an event now in Varazdin where a football match was played between Croatia and Serbia. Croatian broadcasting precisely gives meaning to such savagery, and I would say to the savages and I think they should extract the message. If we remember the football game between England and Croatia when that goulash ran to the field, then you could notice that the camera was just showing something else, that it gave no meaning to such an event, and that our cameras would most likely escort it to the wardrobe. I think that is where these editors and editor-in-chief of Croatian television should learn some lessons after working on Croatian TV for so long. It should also be reminded of the importance of investigative journalism as well as of a number of topics that precede research. I can't be properly processed in a short period of time just because the editors are looking for it, because the result of such work is just a superficial and sensationalism colored story. It doesn't matter how Croatia's TV should take more care of the choice of guests that we don't have to look at the same faces from night to night on different shows as if we watch the reruns every day. Some guests are so often on shows on Croatian television that they don't feel sad or change. Public television must also invite various experts from one area to another, whether from politics or economy, and not to get the impression that in Croatia the letter has always fallen to one of these, as if others do not exist here or as if we do not have other experts. The Council of Croatian Radio Television and only noticed, including the directorship of Croatian Radio Television, that there are problems in relation to communication and professional cooperation, particularly within the information programme of Croatian Television. That's not enough. The Council of Croatian Radio Television must propose solutions and the necessary measures. If the editor-in-chief of the information program cannot solve these problems on its own and contribute to improving, professional work and communication on Croatia's television, then it is you who are going to suggest something, not just to find out. The development of public content from day to day makes progress even though it is necessary to listen more to the pulse of the public and to adjust the terms of individual emissions to the requirements of the viewers. Of course, the reception of the term is not over-prepared, but it is also a pity that the observed and valuable content that contributes to the development of a positive environment throughout society is almost undetected in late times. Corruption and conflict of interest are topics which are not spared by Croatian broadcasting. Employees in Croatian Radio Television, especially those in front of cameras and microphones, are persons who have a great influence on public opinion, which is why they must be an example of their work and behavior. Disclosure of the affair is part of the domain of investigative journalism, making sure that it does not turn into superficial sensationalism, i.e. that the research of possible affairs does not become an affair. Finally, the behaviour of individual actors of various stories with Prisavia should be highlighted, although the public always cares about what happens behind the cameras. Some public workers do harm to the home itself through illegal and incorrect acts. Although it is not unusual that in such a large system as Croatia's radiotelevision of human relations is not always at the highest level, I repeat, because of the great influence journalists and editors have on the public eye should pay more attention to the professional relationship, i.e. That not every disagreement should be a subject that deals with some of the newspapers on its yellow pages. Similarly, those who criticise the most should know and receive criticism, not make fun of others’ critical attitudes through the media. As fond as the general public is of one of the esteemed faces on the screen that suspension is a great thing, I quote, suspension is a great thing because pay goes and you don't. In the end, it is offensive for all those who work and fight fairly for their pay. In the end, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the report in view of its objectivity and an open apparition of all the problems that must be resolved on Croatian broadcasting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40288	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40289	Dear President of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club has carefully considered this report and the SDP Club will accept this report and accept it with the aim of encouraging the HRT Programme Council and encouraging it to carry out its responsibilities. Especially when it comes to full and objective information on Croatian broadcasting. Full and objective information is a fundamental feature of public television. The struggle for public television was neither easy nor short-lived. Croatian TV when it was established, then as RadioTelevision Zagreb, was established under the terms of a unilateral system as state television, and since the social structure was unilateral, it was certainly party television. Democratic changes in the '90s. and by introducing multilateral and multilateral democracies in Croatia, such a position of Croatian broadcasting has not changed. She remained state television, she remained party TV. At the time, it was perfectly normal for the vice president of HDZ to also be the head director of Croatian Radio Television Mr. Vrdoljak. It was normal for society as a whole, it was accepted without talking. There was then certainly a shift and a cleanup of all the editors, as most editors and journalists were bringing in similar and obedient ones, and it was perfectly normal for the editor-in-chief of the information programme to be a member of the ruling party's main board. In 2000, a political decision was made by a change of government. The ruling coalition then decided to turn Croatia's broadcasting from such a structure, as a state note, into a public service. So, she's no longer, she's not allowed to be seen as an election prey anymore. Two amendments to the law followed, the first few failed, with good intentions, but failed as much as the Croatian Council was formed, but members were elected directly by civil society's decision, without political intervention. Full politics was wanted out of HRT, however, it was experienced that these council members, so elected to the council, set up a political party in the council and announced that they were going to the elections. It was quite clear that it was necessary to amend the law and new amendments to the law took place in that same term. The creator of that law was counterpart Antun Vujic. With minor additions and adjustments to that law later today we have a good Law on Croatian Radio Television. A law which is in conformity with all European Union directives. Now the question is how is this law respected? For example, by law. prohibits the promotion of political parties at a time outside the campaign. Well, if that's what you respect. In July of this year, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader resigned. His resignation was discussed here in the Parliament, this session of the Parliament was of course directly transmitted to Croatian broadcasting all in accordance with the law, but the prime minister did not come to the meeting in resignation. He did not come to explain the reasons for his departure before this House who chose him as prime minister. He was in the Assembly building that day, but he snuck into it through the basement like he snuck out of it, but he didn't come to this assembly. A few days later, the HDZ Assembly was held. Croatian broadcasting has brought the entire speech of the former prime minister to a party rally in one hour's special television. That didn't happen on public television until then. And the TV that does that isn't public. She doesn't deserve that honorable epithet of public television. This could not have happened during Mr. Galic's principalship, but it happened during Mr. Sutlic's principalship. I will remind you that when former Prime Minister Ivica Racan died, a memorial gathering was organised at the "Fire of Lisinsky" hall. There were no party features or any party speeches. It was a memorial to which foreign statesmen came. Croatian broadcasting refused to pass it on because it said it was a party-organization and must follow the law. Okay, we've accepted that. We accepted it well-intentioned. On behalf of that well-meaning, we cannot accept that a special one-hour show is being broadcast from a party's convention. The excuse that there was an interest in the public to hear what Prime Minister Sanader would say about the reasons for his resignation is transparent and untrue. The video was broadcast four hours after the speech was delivered. And the editors knew that Ivo Sanader there in that speech did not explain the reasons for his resignation. They also knew that he used the speech to attack other political parties, primarily the SDP. And I would dare say that it was Vanji Sutlic and Hloverki Novak-Srzic who was reason enough to release that show, even the main reason. The HRT Council considered this case and unfortunately accepted one view that there were no violations of the Law on Croatian Television and the Media Act here. If the Croatian Radio Television Council continues to interpret the HRT Act in this way, then I fear it will fail to fulfill its role. And the role is to prevent public television achievements from collapsing and destroying, and to turn public television back into state television and become a party again, regardless of which party is in power. The parties change in power, the elections are every 4 years. It's not good, it's not good for that TV to be in the hands of any party. When it comes to anti-corruption measures, the role of the programme council is also important. Suspicions and objections are much, too, and criminal charges have been filed against Chief Director Vanje Sutlic. The criminal report was filed anonymously and the fact that it is an anonymous criminal application may be enough not to speak of it anywhere, but the fear that clearly rules on Croatian broadcasting, fear of retaliation if irregularities are spoken of in that house, is probably the applicant of this criminal application prevented them from signing. Why am I still talking about this criminal report? Because it has a far more significant and interesting supplement, which is a review of the observed weaknesses and irregularities in business and financial reports in the '99s. until 2008 at the find of the audit house. How does this audit report come up? When Mr. Galic became director, he hired an audit house to control his business, to help him do business, to help him make the wrong or illegal decision, not to make it. To help him with that. The audit was doing its job by doing that private, private audit. What did she establish? It found that these were made up of untrue content documents, that false balance sheets were displayed, that the account was obtained and lost, and other financial reports in which the state and movement of assets and the success of the business was untrue. The peak is the find of the audit where it says that HRT faked the 2008 profit and loss account because it showed that it has a profit of 133 thousand 752 kuna instead of declaring a loss of 68 million kuna. A false balance to which the report will show or be shown for 2008 to the Croatian Parliament. Lying to the Croatian Parliament? It's a fake balance sheet, and that's what the ant was doing. It's an ant radio. It is now not the applicants of the application but the auditory house says Vanja Sutlic was working. You're gentlemen, you accept financial reports. You don't accept them, but you consider them and you give them an opinion. You have a responsibility to make sure that this institution that is too important for the Republic of Croatia is public when it comes to information and that it is done fairly. I've got employees coming in, Mr. Popiac, and I've got employees of this Croatian radio television as chairman of the Media Committee, and they're telling me that there's a mobbing going on in the Department of Scenography, makeup. Why mobbing ask, what kind of mobbing? Where do you think you're from now on? Because some people close to the administration run private trading business with these cosmetic preparations. And he wants to sell those preparations to radio television. But in order for them to do it now, they have to replace those people who work there. Because these guys work fair. So far they've been working, working on this job for years without any objection. Now they're down 30% of their salary and threatening to quit. It's a clean mobbing. They spoke to the court, asked for judicial protection, protection of the union. But if it's allowed on radio and you keep your mouth shut, I won't. I won't shut up. But I wonder if you'll keep quiet about it. Will you allow HRT to continue to turn into party television? Will you tolerate false balances being displayed? And will you tolerate mobing? Let me get this straight. We accept this report, accept it as an encouragement to you, Mr. Drinker and your colleagues, to fulfill the task entrusted to you, entrusted to you by this House. I assure you, at the SDP club, you will have an ally here. You will have allies in all your efforts to do fair business in that house, to do it transparently and to keep the information objective, timely and true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40290	Thank you. We've got corrections. First Mrs. Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40291	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague has made several incorrect allegations, one of them is who I want to correct. One of these is that state television is up to the '90s after a multiparty election, that it was normal for someone to be a party television. That's incorrect. It was democratic television in those times. And my colleague obviously wasn't answering, so he ran off the same TV, even though he was back in '95. was her employee. And the other thing is that the transmission of former Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanders' speech is proof that HRT is not public television. That's not true, fellow Stazic. This was also confirmed by the Programme Council of Croatian Radio and Television. And I will remind you of the provisions of the Croatian Radio-Television Act in the chapter of the programme principles and obligations of Article 5(2) of this Article. "In meeting the programme principles Croatian Radio and Croatian Television will in particular inform the public about political, economic, social, health, cultural etc. events and phenomena in the country and abroad, and ensure an open and free debate on all issues of public interest."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40293	In accordance with Article 7 of the Financial Regulation, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. HRT and HRV are obliged permanently and truthfully and entirely,
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40294	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40295	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40296	Correction by Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40297	Thank you, Mr. President. So I want to establish the same from a series of false things that Mr. Stazic has wrapped up so well. Speaking of President Sanader's speech at the party's meeting, you said HRT conveyed that speech when the president was no longer president. I want to remind you, the HDZ party's assembly was 4.7, and the sixth was the Croatian Parliament where former President Ivo Sanader was resolved. So he was still two days president when HRT delivered that speech. It's one of the lies again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40298	Thank you. And the correction of Mr. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40299	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my fellow Stazic, who several times said party television. So I don't know what game you mean? You're probably thinking about your ex-party. Because that's exactly the kind of TV that followed your campaign, followed a lot more SDP parties and mentioned it. And we've just witnessed that you from your party were setting the truth not directly, but indirectly, the personnel on that television, so I don't know why you're mentioning the party. You're going back right there when she shot you. And as far as Prime Minister Sanader's speech is concerned, I guess that television recognized the prime minister who led the state of Croatia and this government, so she probably recognized that speech that obviously bothered you and didn't like.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40300	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Djuro Poppie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40301	Here I thank all those who have supported this report and who support this programme council who will soon experience here and after your decision to make a certain change, to continue their efforts to control the legality of the work of Croatian Radio Television and to further improve Croatian Radio and Croatian Television. I have to say that if you'll just allow a minute, so somehow by my engagement in the programming council I've been working on a programming council maybe I've got in a few different tones. And there's another colleague, Grgic, who's all over it. For the first time, it may be that the Council itself has started to open topics that are of crucial importance precisely for the functionality and functioning of and serious business houses, above all. Well, then you're showing certain indicators whether they're correct or not. Namely, the programme council is a law, a statue of very dubious and limited importance of authority and opportunity. At last, we naturally appoint the principal. Director of Croatian Television and Croatian Radio to the director of the programme. But we don't bring an annual report, we don't discuss the audit report. By personal desire and will, it is more or less accessible. But most or many in the programming council really are very difficult and can accept such a role and responsibility. I know it's the only body, so the programming council is the only body that's even appointed by the highest legislative body of the Parliament, so it can't have any alibi in the HRT Act itself, so it can be co-responsible about the state of the house as a whole. And all of what you are saying, of course, regardless of whether formal or informally something is written in the law, we responsible members of the Programme Council will certainly know how to act, and we will at least be able to warn to the level to which we have the power to do so and finally, if such a situation arises, that there may be serious problems in any segment of business we will have to reach for final powers. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40302	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40303	Dear Mr. President, HRT representatives, distinguished gentlemen of the council. This report gives a title on progress in the field of culture of speech fully objectively informing the development of public content in the implementation of the public television programme and eliminating the discussion of possible corruption within the HRT. I don't know, I really don't understand where the problem with the language on Croatian radio-television is. I don't understand where the problem with the Croatian radio-television speech is. I don't even understand that someone has problems with Croatian expression on Croatian radio-television, but these formulations about removing the discussion of possible corruption within Croatian radio-television do not know how much it is in the spirit of Croatian language, but let's let it go now. Mr. Kunst mentioned this investigative journalism among other things. But who, for example, will deal with research journalism at HRT in order to "refuse" talks on possible corruption within the Croatian Radio-Television. Clearly, no one will do so, so the question is also how autonomous some journalists are. Since everyone mentioned Varazdin during and this debate let me touch him for just a moment because what's going on in some stands, at some concerts it really went too far and it becomes one I would say national shame. Is that yesterday? It's not. It's been a while, but I assure you that what's been going on lately hasn't happened in the 1990s. However, when we tried to talk about it, they all shook their hand, so I almost said they were making fun of us and threatening us. Somewhere in Zagreb two and a half, three years ago in Ban Jelačić Square, a concert also screened for "Kill, Kill a Serb". After that I literally told my folks down in Istria in Istria you won't. And he won't. The truth is, we were trying to prevent that phenomenon as much as we could. He made it through our private visit once, but I can also tell this singer that where the IDS is going, he won't. However, I am going to tell him today and I am ready to say this publicly first aid, even three years ago I was the first to help him in this country but on one condition to give up this philosophist. Now, when we talk about that hate speech or what it says here is a culture of speech, etc. whether Croatian Radio-Television, whether it is important to prevent hate speech. I say absolutely yes. Whether Croatian radio-television in any way promotes hate speech, I claim so. How? If he doesn't isolate the carrier of that phenomenon. Does Croatian radio-television then encourage intolerance in Croatian society, for example, about these phenomena? Yeah, if he doesn't isolate the bearer of that behavior. How? So we or you actually, we're gonna watch and you're still having a 15-minute interview today I'm reading in the paper with Thompson that I want to congratulate and give birth to. He will speak again about the past and we see the European Union forbids him to enter his space or into the space of that Schengen. He will reassure you again as I have the opportunity to read today that greeting is "To home ready!" an old Croatian greeting. So where's that? So who can be such a sucker on Croatian radio or in this Assembly, or in Croatian society not to see the background of such a transparent game. Who's provoking who here? Whether he is provoking through Croatian radio-television us or Croatian radio-television through him again wants to provoke the entire Croatian public or one good part of that Croatian public who has more and more every day and that is what encourages it. He will also tell you that by running at these concerts "Kill, Kill a Serb", Janez, it doesn't matter, Mesic, Caina, it's the police's responsibility, not him. If he sings or sings about Jasenovac or Stari Gradišca, he'll say it doesn't matter, it was some private parties, etc. But what matters is that someone who manages to get together, that's what's worrying, tens of thousands of people at their concerts just doesn't want to be fenced by this retrograde policy or ideology. This morning we heard from Furi Radin and some others and he says so we have constitutions that prohibit any discrimination, so we have laws that prohibit any discrimination and that is indeed so. However, there is obviously no will within politics and Croatian radio-television to put an end to it. What's the solution? The solution is simple. End of the game, break-up of the concerts, but what it looks like I'm about to tell you. Here's to Pazin, a thousand 500 people are running "Kill, Kill John, Mesic" the loudest when Cain comes in line. And the police say they didn't run at the concert. And since they didn't run at the concert, those who were there were almost offended by it. They say we've got to be running. They say no, they ran before the concert, not the moment this one started singing. But if the chief of police got rid of it, I'm telling you that after that, it wouldn't have happened in Pazin or anywhere else. If the head of a football club, an alliance, or the one renting those premises, I think everything in this country would be different. In one word, it would be different if there were a little minimum political will. It is clear that there should also be a ban on going to individual matches, going abroad, and what is most important is to interrupt the transmission to Croatian radio and not after that, such as hoofs or noises as well as to invite Thompson to some ordered or not know what shows on Croatian Radio-Television. One word should marginalize them and simply do everything to obstruct the public from them, one word should amputate them from the public, isolate them, and that is the only way to treat them. We saw Kunst talking about what happened at that unfortunate game 1:5 in favour of England in London, but something similar to Varazdin happened also against Andorra in Maxim. Same story. And enough of that. I can only order one thing, in Istria it will not appear, but I am also deeply convinced that as time goes on, there will be less and less in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. This report speaks of corruption, yes or no. Yeah, there's corruption on Croatian radio and we don't need to paint on it. Who said that, yes, I mean Mr. Hebrang, the questions some candidates for president answered, so clearly it was a game of the PR. I don't know what this internal investigation has shown, but whatever this internal investigation is, I think it's clear to all of us that the game was more than transparent. Gentlemen, on Croatian TV, we all know that, shows are sold, and now we see that they furniture the emissions. They also sell minutes on information emissions. That's, I'd say, one subtle crime, it's far more dangerous crime than that crime that appears in public procurement. Why? Because it affects who might be in the position of government the next day. Croatian broadcasting is not mine, not ours, but we can freely say our television, television of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is public television. I'm getting a little chilly, let's just say the principal's messages that he's gonna sue me. It bothered me at the time when local elections were often the appearance of some local candidates, but I said I got cold. I've taken it all out, all these statements from people on TV. In the end I said I won't talk about it anymore, just let it be behind us, there's no need. We've also heard from people on TV, okay, from Croatian TV. The opportunities in Croatian broadcasting, so you all know that, are not good. Mr. Stazic mentioned a financial document that would require someone to handle the consequences. On the one hand, they are talking about a profit of 150 million kuna, and on the other hand they are talking about a cumulative loss of about 60 million kuna. So where there is it, so who can simply fabricate it, better put it this way, forge reports like this. Well, that's why someone should go to jail for it, not to send the director of television to jail for the pay phone in those cases. I think that, with the revision of Croatian broadcasting, maybe some independent body should come in to really give us the situation from that television, not in a way that the Parliament is now forming but that maybe a few of these journalists from Croatian RadioTelevision simply tell us what's going on there because we have opportunities to read how ratings falls, how Croatian radiotelevision becomes less attractive, and that certainly for any of us, for this society is not good. Croatian broadcasting is certainly one of the largest public houses or public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia. Directly employs about 3,000 people, indirectly maybe even more. At an annual level, it generates revenue of 1.5 billion kuna or more, from a television subscription if I am not mistaken for a billion and 100 million kuna. It's huge money, it's money that the tourism ministry seems to have somewhere on the annual level of 200 million kuna. So that amount corresponds to the seven annual budgets of the Ministry of Tourism. So clearly, where there's money, there's everything, there's abuse. Where there is influence, there is also everything in the public, and there is abuse, where there is pressure, and Croatian broadcasting is in some way in the right sense or transferred sense of power, but Croatian broadcasting must not be the ruling TV or the party in power or IDS, nor the prime minister, or Damir Kajin, or anyone else. Croatian broadcasting as national television should survive, it should survive, be stronger year after year, be more open and even more credible, someone mentioned earlier and more professionally. I don't understand, and I wouldn't want anyone to think that I'm criticizing some journalist there right now. No, absolutely not, but I also cannot understand when some journalists from the house warn about this financial situation so that they are later punished, in a way eliminated from an editorial scene or as it is already called, that they are simply being denied the public statement. As in Podravka, I have the impression that as in Podrava, someone would prefer to privatise Croatian broadcasting, but I know that it is simply impossible. This can't happen, but Croatian TV is already overprivitated already, but regardless of Croatia's broadcasting, it's always been my television and I always liked television. And another sentence that I want to say in this pre-election time, and I might want to conclude this controversy in some way with Croatian Radio Television, that there are no more candidates first, second row, but simply all should be in the same position, and it is clear that no one can go beyond that if there was a fake of these business balance sheets in that institution and those who thereby obstruct the financial power of that institution should at least give this one a stand down. To begin with, a team that oversees the work of Croatian broadcasters and those who lead it should perhaps step down. Finally, what would Croatian broadcasting do to others if they came to such knowledge? Well, they'd just tear them all apart at sixteen, and we can see that everyone else has to keep quiet. This is also happening because of a fake, as I would say, professionalism and false collegiation of some other media. All in all, we will also accept this report, but let the television be autonomous, let it be credible, let it be timely, let it be fair, not that we must wage war with them through a pay phone or those on information shows with us. Maybe at this time it would be best for a man to keep his mouth shut, but I mean everything I wanted to say I said to an honest, honest, and I probably wasn't far from the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40304	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think my colleague Cain made a lot of incorrect allegations, so we can figure out it's far from true. But there was one stuck in my ear when he said that those who think otherwise would not appear in Istria. I think anyone who meets the legal requirements will perform. So, in that part, so, of course, you're a dear fellow fellow with democratic achievements, but I didn't know that you were such a powerful man, so that the sea, I'd be happy to come to Istria, that I'd have to call you in Istria if I came, to announce myself to you there in Buzet, so thank God, if that's what you need to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40306	My colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40307	I didn't say he wouldn't perform in Istria if he thought otherwise. Everyone is welcome and everyone thinks what they want to think about anyone, but no one in Istria is going to stop your friend Thompson. That's what I said and I'm behind those words and that's how it's gonna be. It's not Damir Cain's work, it's the dominant population of Istrian space.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40308	You remember that show, that movie, "He who sings doesn't mean evil." HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40309	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Programme Council, dearly disturbed colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking colleagues who know how to handle this to help their colleagues. Today, we have a report that includes several topics, which are hard to trick under one cap, we would say, because this topic from language to corruption is quite broad. It also includes a discussion of how public and in what way, by means, Croatian broadcasting is, above all, software and then by which orientation it fulfils its public service tasks. The fact is that the work of Croatian Radio Television, primarily Croatian television, is causing many recommendations in the public, both professional and general public, on this platform of achieving the public of its work, i.e. public role, the role of public service. We have the right as Croatian National Representatives to demand and demand a lot more standards both in reporting and in the way of processing topics and in the overall work of Croatian RadioTelevision but also because it is set up under a special law, because it does not have private capital behind it, as well as other national television stations that must also move within the frameworks of the law, but which have far greater software freedom than HTV. HTV simply needs to fill all the gaps that in the information space deliberately miss to fill commercial, radio and television stations, above all because they are guided by profit logic, profit logic, and not by the logic of public interest, education, awareness and information. The fact is that Croatia's television, first of all, has been shaking down various affairs for years. The fact is that we are witnessing almost a week of different reports, conflicts, shifts, and the fact is that this report also lists a number of cases, but it is also the fact that none of these situations have been solved in a way that determines the problem or the case of corruption. As we see in this report, those who are competent to carry out these procedures to the end, which is not the Programme Council, regularly conclude that there are no grounds in the applications submitted. Well, it's almost impossible, statistically speaking, that none of these major circuses and scandals could have identified any particular bad intentions or bad performance of the one in question. Such a large system of separation, spread across the country, in regional radio and local centres, television studies, is an excellent target for all those who think and want to mutate. I've been warned that one space has been completely unexplored, and that's the rental space of equipment. For the purposes of producing its programme, Croatian television spends a huge amount of money annually to hire equipment from private companies. As a result, it is suspected that the prices at which the equipment is rented are more than the prices that you or I can get if we order it for private purposes. It is reasonable to believe that business cooperation contracts are not concluded on the basis of more than one offer, but directly by contract, in reduced procedures and at a level not sufficiently controlled. I would like to see the State Audit report, but not a report of financial documents, but a deep report on the work of Croatian television, where the state audit would address this particular segment of business of Croatian television, in order to either establish irregularities or eliminate suspicions. But the fact is that this is the space where millions and millions of kunas are spent, let's not forget, Croatian citizens who pay the subscription and that this space should be explored. The same is the fact that Croatian television is still the most powerful medium and is as attractive to advertisers. The fact is that the process, relations between advertisers and those who advertise on their behalf must always be under the bat because it can be a space for corruption especially if a whole series of intermediaries, agencies, etc. participate in the process. We know that the more actors in this business, the easier part of the money is to get out. If I were the director or director of Croatian television, it would be my first and primary task. Worried that the space where corruption can happen to tears is as much as possible, not publicly polluted with parliamentary deputies, rather than publicly accounting with those who have criticism about the work of Croatian television. The leadership of Croatian television must be aware that the very fact that a political process has been chosen in its duties and by performing a public duty must be hit by criticism and that the public is not a place for polemics in which neither the director nor the editor-in-chief of Croatian television will participate. Croatian television plays a particularly social role when it comes to spreading or establishing a culture of tolerance or suppressing discrimination. What can allow themselves small, private, insufficient professional radio and television stations Croatian broadcasting must not allow itself to sleep. She's the one who has to set the standards, she's the one who has to keep the bar high. And hence these observations in the council's report. That many shows that have a very large social role are placed in the wrong terms and that are under the auspices of battles for so-called. "received by it" many very important shows push on the sidelines of the programme. What nonsense we do not see at a time when the family is together, and important information, important shows of educational relevant programs can be seen only at 23:30, at midnight or after midnight. When did you see a single science show during the day? Why is science on Croatian television treated as a paranormal thing only bats watch after midnight? That's just one example. There are as many as you want. How is this public interest done? I'll give you an example from my city. On 25 June 2008, in Velika Gorica, the greatest monument to the dead Croatian defenders in the Republic of Croatia was officially discovered and dedicated to the debt left to us by more than 100 dead defenders of the large-scale region. If we exclude a monument in Vukovar that has more than symbolic and monumental value because there is an early nation, a monument in Zagreb which is the capital, then this must be one of the greatest, most important monuments to the fallen Croatian defenders. To this day, Croatian television viewers have not seen this monument, although there have been very relevant social events along with it. I think it's a shame. It is a great artistically relevant thing done by the academic sculptor Mladen Mikulin which Croatia cannot see. If you're asking me why? Because it was prevented from being seen. But in the end a few words about language. Croatian standard language is a language that must be promoted by public service such as Croatian Radio Television. In this sense, it is extremely important that and how not only those who work on television speak but also those who participate in the information and educational part of the Croatian Broadcasting Programme. However, the Croatian language is not only a Croatian standard of Ichavah and kikwak language. Croatian language is both a chakavian idiom and an Idium and an Ikva and an Ekvai speech and the role of Croatian television is also to promote these idioms, dictionaries and speak Croatian. I'd like to hear Međimurje's cocoa more, mountain cacaucasity. I'd like to hear an Istrian icicle, but also a Dalmatian icicle and a hammer. Too little of what they say, what most of our people use on public television. Because it's part of our heritage, it's a living part of our heritage, and I wish we could understand each other better when we speak in our dialects. The island of Hvar alone has four different dialects. It's a fortune. It is the wealth of a nation who can rightly say that it has a great language and a strong language, a rich language. And the role would also be for Croatian broadcasting to raise awareness of that kind of value that we have. And I would like to hear, of course, not in "Dnevnik", of course not in the information program, of course not in the official shows that have a very specific programming framework, but certainly in part of the regional programme, in part of the educational, educational, therefore, programme to hear much more the dialectal word of Croatia. The Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will welcome and support this report as one of the steps and efforts to ensure that the programme council achieves the greatest role defined by law and statute in order for Croatian Radio Television to be a speech of education, speech of pride, speech of truth, speech of congratulations, but also a speech on all Croatian dictionaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40310	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40311	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here at the beginning of the presentation on this report, I will say the same as the SDP Representatives' Club that I support the report in terms of certain efforts to make certain improvements in the fields of speech culture, information, the development of new public content on television. But most importantly, of course measures to eliminate corruption on HRV. What I think is that the report has certain indicators of qualitative but of course it has to and can do a lot more. The situation on HTV is alarming to me right now. I'm not just going to say business-related, but I'm just going to say about the state and objectivity of sometimes information and what my colleague Stazic was already saying earlier, and it seems that according to the statements of HTV employees that we can read in recent days, for example, Dennis Latin gave a few days ago, an interview in which he said that HTV has elements of party television. This is confirmed through the example of this famous already historic talk. I mean historical from the position of the past Prime Minister of former Sanader, through certain other things that appear every day. Also, the one open as an HTV employee has been calling from the most responsible people, not now, but for many years. And there's nothing going on. He says that, internal investigations show that there are no problems, but of course internal investigations can sometimes serve to close things down. Not to reveal the core of the problem that the HRV is familiar with. I would say about objective information, or the closure of potential corruption affairs, which unfortunately some people on HTV know how to close. Here, I'll give you an example. We had a short show about Podravka, where in my opinion one big affair, one big problem that happened in the Croatian economy, tried to close down with one show. On the grounds that it is current, that the Croatian public is troubled. Of course, it was supposed to work, but the concept of the show, the guests who were invited, went for the story to be closed. I'll remind the invited are the man who made the transaction in front of the financial house and the journalist who was supposed to professionally ask that man what happened together. And then, of course, the man from that financial agency tried to explain how he was going around trying to make himself... I'd say the leading structure of Podravka's bodies wanted to take over the company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, through the E.P.P., that story is closed. It was as if everything was going in the interests of workers and employees in Podravka, but no one was even the host of that show asking a single elemental question. Which is why he was secretly spilling capital through SMS and through another company. So that show in my court served exclusively to close the story in the interest of those who were hunting in the dim. It's another thing. We had the resignation of one of the directors of the public, or the replacement of one of the directors of the public company. Same show, same host. Corruption in public enterprises specifically to HEP. And then, of course, the story is not important that he was working in HEP that man was employed there, and he didn't show up at work, he worked as a volunteer at HDZ, but another guest was invited, the subject of the same case was reportedly being opened in another city, to make it look the same, politics is the same, they are all the same, and that in this way the story is closed, that is to show the Croatian people on HTV not that the problem in the current government and run these public companies at the moment, but that if the government changed probably the same thing would work. Because it's obvious that HTV shouldn't work and that's what the HTV Units shouldn't do, that they're covering the current government in a way that they're reviving topics. In the case of crime in Podrava and in the case of incompetence of corruption, intransparentity and criminal behaviour in public enterprises. In the first case, through the the thesis that it wanted to privatise the company and save it from hostile takeover through the ENP, but I would not say that it was the ESOP, it was a clean purchase of the ruling furniture in Podravka that wanted to gain power over the company. And in the other case, all politicians are the same, so it doesn't matter that HDZ and its public companies are working non-transparently and in one, I would say sometimes the wrong way, or that in HEP, it's precisely what happened things that aren't allowed. So that's what HTV shouldn't do. It's another thing. Corruption on HTV and such non-transparent behaviours in this report are seen to have been listed in the last 4.5 years only 4 cases. This is and in all these cases has proved to be as if there was no need for any reaction. I'll remind you, it's about cases where she hired a PR agency to get some space on HTV. Apparently, there was no problem or any nontransparent behavior. There have been other cases mentioned, but absolutely in such a case only four internal investigations which then show that everything is fine, I don't think they show seriousness or desire to be with corruption on HTV account. And one thing that is particularly interesting, current, is that in recent days it appears in the media, and it is said that there is a bad financial situation on HTV that will be reportedly resolved by reducing workers' rights, i.e. the abolition of transportation for non-members in Zagreb, i.e. the release of a thousand 300 employees. I'm asking the question here. What is the reason for this and why the crisis was to occur, to reduce advertising revenues, to start doing business rationally on Croatian television? It means that in the last who knows how many, perhaps 15, 20 years, we have unnecessarily had a thousand and a half people employed, and that in this way all directors, including the one who has now spent public money, and I must remind you that, however, on HTV, the largest part of the income goes from television tax over a billion kunas, a billion kunas, 200 million kunas and that the money of Croatian taxpayers is spent. And it turns out that all these years we've had a thousand and over 300 employees who maybe, someone mentioned it, they're lucky they're under suspension, they're getting paid and nothing. But it means that money was spent untransparently. And in the end, I'm going to say one more thing that always makes me regret it. I know how to take a long look at the BBC and I know how to look at the BBC Business Report. In this public television that should be an example of our television, we see the impact of this television on the education of people, on the development of awareness of certain topics. Polls are being conducted to see how public television has affected, say, education, some education of citizens. We've also had her reports on TV, and I'm asking here's the president of the television council that even in this way the reports will be working in the future, not just how much revenue they've been making, how many expenses, how many employees they've been, how much they've spent in production. Here in the end, I will support this report and I hope that finally in HRT we will get public television that will effectively do what it has to do, that we will not have any complaints from HTV employees who have been on TV all these years and testify to changes on TV, that this television is now a party. And what particularly bothers me as a television viewer is that a closed show that has become a cult show for 20 years, "Latin" which has opened topics that are not, no one else has dared to open. She was removed from the program allegedly under the pretext that Mr. Latin would run for president. As the man recently said that such ambition no longer exists, I hope that he will return very soon to the HRT programme because "Latinica" is a show that needs public television, which is needed by Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40312	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Maras said, incorrectly, that the TV show about Podravka wanted to close the affair. It will be closed by our institutions doing their job when you do it, etc. You allow yourself also to say these, they wanted to take over and they committed a crime. Crime will be proven when it's time. And you're still allowed to say that HTV should do this and that. HTV has its own bodies doing their job and of course we can like it or not, but that's the way it is. So let's let the institutions do their job and then we'll see who did what and how things were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40314	Mrs. Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40315	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Programme Council of the HRT and Vice-President of the Council, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As my debate goes right behind my colleague Maras, I'd just like to take a brief look at his debate. Says counterpart Maras that public television, Croatian radio-television has the elements of party television. And now don't be surprised if I say I'll agree to what my colleague said and I'll set an example. The crisis tax that we have voted here in this High House in the Croatian Radio and Television news is called the same word as the dear colleague whose left hand side of this Assembly called the law. I also said it could happen even though I'm against it on commercial television, but it can't happen in public. After all, my colleagues, Stazić, quoted the programming principles and programme orientations that Croatian Radio and Croatian Television must respect. And yet let us go back to what is the subject of today's debate, which is the report by the Croatian Programme Council, by fulfilling the obligation given to him by this High House in December last year when he discussed the Annual Report on HRT's work, the Directorate's work and the Programme Council's implementation and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the HRT Act in the HR and HTV programmes for the period of 3 September 2007 to 14 October 2008 and on the basis of a number of and I will say here the reasoned observations and proposals presented at the plenary session both at the meeting and at the meetings of the Assembly working bodies. You have been committed and fulfilled, you have submitted a progress report in the fields of speech culture, full and objective information and public content development in the implementation of public television programmes and the removal of discussion on possible corruption within HRT. As this report says in the first row in its chapter on progress in the fields of speech culture, I will make an immediate comment that I have already made. If there is ever any change and addition of the Law on Croatian Radio-Television, then I suggest that the report that the Programme Council is obliged to submit once a year to the Croatian Parliament to determine its name precisely because it stands, it is prescribed that it is the report on the work of the Programme Council. This is the number of sessions held and what the Programme Council discussed at its meetings as well as this and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations set out in the Law on HRT, programmes, etc. We've got sausage headlines, we're talking about language, we're talking about promotion and language and speech in programs, maybe even in this law, and we're just talking about the Programme Council and we know what it's all about when we get it. And right away at the beginning, I'm going to say that I'm going to support this report with certain notes. This report has been reviewed in the first six months, and no matter how many half a year it has been sufficient to show that the Programme Council has put into focus its interests and works those segments that have not been adequately explained and shown in the annual reports delivered to the Croatian Assembly so far, and they require and deserve not only because they are a major public interest but are also part of the tasks entrusted to the Programme Council in accordance with the Law on HRT. As evidence of my colleague and colleagues, I will say that the Annual Report that we discussed in December 2008 on the work of the Programme Council contained 12 pages. This now delivered report contains 13 pages in 6 months. Move and progress is visible. In general, it seems to me that the Council's conclusion has awakened and encouraged the HRT Programme Council to carry out those tasks set out by the HRT Act. I will once again quote only the provision of Article 17. "represents and protects the public's interest by conducting surveillance and improving radio and television programmes." In short, it is the task of the HRT Programme Council. That's how we find it in this report. Let's say we return to the first chapter on the culture of speech in Croatian Radio and Croatian Television and it is said: "For the Programme Council of Language Quality and Speech in the same programmes as it is used by journalists and editors and leaders, as well as public education obligations on the proper use of Croatian language is the strategic task of HRT as a public media". And then we find that the existing services for the language and speech of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television from 2006 to February 2009 have no one to work with because there is no cooperation with the editors of the show and the program required that journalists be instructed to further education in the use of the standard Croatian language. What happened before that time in 2006 remains unarranged to us, but the consequences are evident that this period lasts longer than that. The period of drowsiness, laziness and comosion ended with the establishment of the Educational Centre of Croatian Radio Television, which started in February of this year and whose results should be monitored and expected in the coming years. I therefore welcome the recommendations made by the Council, especially by introducing education to improve language and speech culture to all journalists, editors and leaders as a defined job obligation. I would advocate, as I believe it should have been before, I would have advocated this recommendation and for the education of the culture of dialogue and not only the guests of Croatian TV and Croatian Radio shows and programmes, but mainly employees. My colleagues and colleagues, even today some of us have been trying to speak against hate speech, using hate language, equally for the education of the culture of dialogue, as well as objective, true and responsible public reporting. Or it only belongs to the next chapter of this report, because I personally think it's pervasive and that's why I point it out in this place. As we all advocate for true, whole, impartial and timely information of grief, I am presented in the report in the chapter "Full and objective information". When it comes to the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities on the current state of play in Croatian broadcasting held in February of this year, the report argues that members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media have left the session due to disagreement with the agenda. This finding is only partially accurate, because we left the session by clearly stating our position that the internal things of Croatian television, so the relationship between editors and editors of the information program are on their route, that it is internal Croatian television. And since the members of the Information Committee are presented seeking the protection of editors for wage reduction, they are not and cannot be the subject of discussion of the parent board of directors or we are misinformed. In the assessment of progress and recommendations in the "Publishing of Public Content" chapter, it is concluded that in the last 5 and a half years as far as there has been, the Council has never produced an analysis of the viewership of the programme, and the Council has neither received nor received data on ratings until April 2009, so the question is whether these data are requested and someone did not want to deliver them or not requested them. The answers stay somewhere in the air, but whoever gets it can't be satisfied with it. And now that we are using this expression, I am pleased to quote: "Furthermore, the Council is not satisfied with the terms of more shows with a prominent information and educational function, and according to the letters received by the Council, not a part of the public is satisfied." Dear President and Vice President of the Council, I believe the public may not be pleased, but I am not pleased with your dissatisfaction either. What have you done under the legal powers given to the Council by the Law on HRT? In terms of the content of advertising in child and youth education, discrimination against women, impact-term programming, participation of sports on the 2nd programme, and the rest of what you say are areas where much work needs to be done and without expectations that you can ever meet the expectations of all targeted audiences. In a chapter in which the report needed to remove the talks on possible corruption within HRT, with the title "Corruption" to us who brought the Anti-Corruption Strategy is explained and explained the concept of corruption and the essence of anti-corruption policy as well as the conflict of interest. It's not a bad thing to re-establish knowledge. And then when we talk about the affair and these cases that some colleagues have already mentioned, in these reports... possible corruption one also refers to the city from which I come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that Slavonski Brod, except for negative things and cannot come into the program of Croatian television, but it is also true that only when the Mayor of Slavonski Brod praised that he paid for a house to allow him access, that he also took place in "Breeding Space". This allegation here that the State's Attorney's Office has not established the elements for criminal charges and the like, I only know what has been established by the State's Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod in respect of the mayor's conduct. They said they didn't find any elements of a violation of the law because the mayor can dispose of, according to the Public Procurement Act, up to 70,000 kuna on his own, that's the order and he did the order and that's the findings of the State's Attorney's Office in Slavonski Brod. In any case, this report and the chapters that we've been given, I've looked back at everything a little bit, are evidence that it really needs to change the current concept of the report and I've read the opinions of other working bodies, so not only the Committee on Information, Information and Media but also others who say every six months, that we need more, that the Programme Council should resupply something in six months. I also pointed out in the debate last year some period that couldn't be two months one year and then ten of these and it's our year. Reports are best given for the whole year. Because if we look, this year we'd be discussing two months in 2008 and ten months in 2009. I therefore welcome what the Government has adopted and what the Parliament has adopted, the Government has proposed, the Parliament has adopted that it is annual reports and I advocated that this is how you set out the 2009 report with everything that the Government has provided and in its opinion, and most committees have accepted, so that certain segments of the implementation of the programme principles and programme orientations are made clearer and more extensively available in the report submitted. And another small review of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council, said the law and quoted the president, said the president of the Programme Council in his opening address with the provision of the law, met as needed, and at least once in three months, and what is the situation. I'm afraid we should be stuck all the time. Regardless of all this, I said I'd support this report and I'd support this report and I wish you a lot of success, there's a lot of work. These days, I hope we can replace five members of the Programme Council, so freshen up with new forces. And I'd just like to make sure that the Programme Council respects the principle of equality between women, or gender, so that it's about that number, that we don't stay represented as usual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40316	Thank you. 14 minutes, Croatia-Cazahstan 1:0. Two replicas. Mr. Representative Goran Maras, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40317	Thank you very much. Mrs Bilić Vardić said in your statement that Croatian television has the elements of party television because of what she accepted the generally accepted name for the crisis tax hack. According to that logic, all the media in Croatia that use this term would be influenced by the opposition. I don't think so, but that the Croatian citizens simply accepted this unfair harrass tax. It's called a crowbar. And the second thing that HTV has really elements of party television at the moment is that I don't speak, the HRT employees who are employed there, who live with this television, who talk among their circles how it is done on Croatian television, and it is seen from many procedures. I cited two examples of how HRT tried, i.e. in the "Open" main editor of the information program, trying to close two unpleasant topics for HDZ, one about Podravka, the other about HEP and criminal behaviour within HEP, and introduced a standard that will be very difficult to continue right now, which is that the president of one party on his departure gives in full speech. So I now expect that at the next HSLS Assembly when the Deputy Prime Minister leaves the office of the HSLS president, HRT will again give a full speech by the Deputy Prime Minister leaving the post of HSLS President. If that's the standard accepted on HRT. If it isn't then it's true what I'm saying, which is that HRT has party TV elements under the influence of HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40318	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40319	Thank you very much. I'd have to correct you. First of all, I didn't say it, but you said it, so I called on you. That's the first and the most basic thing. Secondly, you said once again that the general term was accepted, the general term accepted. So how, when we talk about the language, whether Croatian Radio, So Radio and Television should stick to what the people are saying, or whether they need true, objective, credible, timely, timely, I also think in this speech that obviously bothers you very much, and I would only ask you if they want anything else for the people who speak. By the law of corruption and in all other laws where we could protect whistles. I'm the only one who doesn't know if anyone's ever been responsible for the untruth he's made if it's proven to him. And third, I ask you, dear colleague Maras, will Croatian Radio Television, I ask myself the same question, to give a speech from your president of the city board of Zagreb, Mr. Bandic, as he leaves his post in the presidential campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40320	Unfortunately, I cannot allow dear colleague Maras to respond, because it is not intended for the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40321	The meeting of the Committee on Information called together with the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in February 2009 was not called to discuss whether or not any Croatian journalist has been paid a reduced salary. It was called on the topic of Croatian broadcasting due to the ban on hosting the "Latinica" show, not the salary. When there is a ban on visiting a journalist, who deals with organised crime and who claims that organised crime in Croatia is linked to the tops of the government and has evidence for that, so when a journalist in Croatia's broadcasting is banned, this is about censorship. And if censorship happens on Croatian radio, then the Croatian Chamber's parent board should discuss it. And it is quite true what it says in this report that MPs of the parliamentary majority, and you, ma'am, did not want to take part in that committee session, although it is your parliamentary duty, because this issue of disorganised crime is linked to the tops of your power unfavourable. And you didn't want it to be discussed on the council board and that fact to come to the public. But despite your efforts, the session was held and that truth came to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40322	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40323	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you have been well-recognized as chairman of the Chamber of Media in this House, because this was for you, this is what I said in my debate, there are still our members of the parliamentary majority, who are members of the committee, who attended the sessions when it was the subject of the thematic session. We clearly and loudly refused at our parent committee session, we said so in the opening part of the joint session and left the session. But I'm glad you recognized each other. You're saying we're uncomfortable with the truth. You know that's not true, but it suits you, and that's why you repeat it. And if that wasn't true, they show the moves of the Prime Minister, the Croatian Government, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, in the last 100 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40324	Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. President of the HRT Programme Council, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the whole afternoon, so we've been discussing this report here, and I think we've already heard a lot about it. As already said, this report is divided into 4 chapters, which is a culture of speech, complete and objective information, the development of public content, measures to eliminate talks on possible corruption within HRT. When we talk about the culture of speech, it is certainly important to note that since 2003, since the establishment of the HRT Council has been continuously discussed in its sessions the subject of language and speech in Croatian Radio and Croatian TV programmes. The quality of language and speech in Croatian Radio and Croatian TV programmes is seen by the Council as a strategic task of HRT. The Council continuously oversees the resolution of the issue and concluded that the state of language and speech is much better on Croatian Radio than on Croatian TV, so even though it could be done on Croatian Radio, there is more room to make an even greater improvement. The lack of quality of language and speech on Croatian television is often being warned by the public, and is at the heart of the interest and interest of the HRT Council. In the past semester, however, there has been a significant positive shift, but it is a long-term project that requires time as well as appropriate professional and technical support and continuity of financial investments in the education centre which was founded in late 2008 and started working in February 2009 and in some ways we can thank that education centre for the significant improvements. When we talk about full and objective information, I think it is important to say that at each meeting, the HRT Council pays particular attention to the quality of public information on public television. According to this, the HRT Council has made some recommendations, and I am not going to list them here in particular right now, so you can see them all in the report. What I saw seemed kind of important to me was that the Council stood up as much research journalism as possible and in this sense supported the main editors of the information programme. We all know there's some future in investigative journalism. When we talk about the development of public content, we can say that in the last few years HRT has made significant shifts in the development of public content, which proves a number of emissions, so also a number of viewers' praises, etc. The HRT Council pointed out what was already here today and was said not to be satisfied with the terms of some shows. That's what I'm gonna say here. So, about this dissatisfaction terms I'm going to mention here first of all some shows that talk about people with disabilities. It is the show "Sixth sense" of Croatian Radio and the show "Normal Life" of Croatian Television. I can say here on behalf of people with disabilities that they're basically very pleased with the sixth sense show. They are less satisfied with the "Normal Life" of Croatian TV precisely for this reason I was just talking about, which is an inadequate term. The term in which this show is broadcast can be freely said that it is intended for people with disabilities only and those who are not employed, 14:40 minutes is certainly not an adequate term. And something else that's characteristic of this show, which is that it's being rephrased in an even more inadequate term, so somewhere in the early mornings when no one actually looks at it, maybe that's how it is for those people who are getting ready for work, but certainly with no real attention, they can't focus on this show. Although I think, and here I want to especially point out, that these shows are educational and useful, perhaps even more to all those people, to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are not disabled because through these shows they can learn a lot, I can learn a lot about the various types of diseases that lead to disability, so here I will mention one example. Here's the other day, it just happened that on one show, there was a talk about multiple sclerosis patients when a lady called and I actually didn't know anything about it, and in the family it happened to me. If I'd followed these shows before, maybe we wouldn't have had this kind of shock in our family. And something else that I think is signifying here for this show, which is yes, it's already someone for some shows here today and mentioned that it happens often that the same people participate several times in certain shows. And that's what happened here on this show, which we certainly don't think is good here, so we expect you at the HRT program council to do something for these two shows, even though I don't think it's good to specialize, so let me put it this way just broadcasts for people with disabilities. On behalf of all persons with disabilities here, I can certainly transfer and ask you to pass on their recommendation to speak on other shows of persons with disabilities. So, specialized shows are good, they should be, but one Open one Central Journal of Croatian Television should certainly inform about everything that happens and is related to people with disabilities. I will briefly say what corruption is primarily about education, as well-educated and anti-corruption journalists will use objective and impartial information to conduct anti-corruption education of citizens through the spread of public awareness of the danger and harmfulness of corruption. In any case, corruption is harmful, we would all like such journalists to be gone at all, that there are no such citizens in the Republic of Croatia at all. Well, here's what we expect is that the next report will certainly show a greater shift than in this report. But I think this report is a good step forward, that they've certainly made a great effort to get some information. But I don't think you can stop here and it's up to you to have a big job ahead of you. We'll see what it says in your annual report. I believe we'll get a series of good and quality data. And here's to the end, I just want to say, I'm going to support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40326	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40327	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Programme Council, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's every year we do television and this year. I know it's not easy for the editors on TV, it's definitely not easy for the programming council, because the most objections are coming to them. But it's a good thing we say a few words, too. Namely, it should be commended first of all and Croatian television, because in recent years it has really respected a whole series of things and the remarks that we have said here about the pay phone, either from the scene, and that's good. So a whole series of shows that simply disappeared from the program were returned, and one gray on television turned into what we have today. As much as we criticise, television only needs to look at these remaining television houses in this area, then we'll see that this is extremely good, that it's far more quality than everyone else and that it's more professional. And it's good to work on that expertise. We've been complaining a little bit about language and I can see that they took it very seriously on television, courses and everything else and the improvement is obviously visible. But since we are most concerned with politics here in the Parliament, it is normal that the most information program we are monitoring and often taking part in it, and normally everyone observes from their point of view. I hear earlier from my colleagues that this is a party television, because it was an hour-long show dedicated to HDZ, but the arguments that the gathering of minutes per party goes a long way in favour of SDP doesn't interest anyone, because that's exactly what it is. Namely, whatever law is being discussed in the House, whatever law the government proposes, there will always be one former government minister, who left in 2003 who will say that this is wrong, to apologize to people, here it was all good while we were, now this is not good and I don't think that's good. Because if you prefer to call the profession, the profession will say whether something is right or wrong, but the competitive party will hardly praise anything, or that anything will tolerate what is said here. How big is it, if you can make it louder I'll be glad. Then I'll wait for you to finish. Thank you. I mean, if there's a bias on television, there's a lot of it. Let's take a look at some of the pieces of information shows, and we'll see how they show something. I can give you one here together here we've all been in some things, so I'll tell you. Here's a novel by Roncevic's trucks. So it kept talking every day. But what are you talking about? It's been said since 2004. In 2004 it was this, down in 2005, 2003, they skipped. And in exactly the same way Ronchevic was getting trucks. 210 fire tankers were also purchased in 2003, but it was the second government or previous government, without competition, with the most expensive vehicles cancelled. So 210 Mercedes vehicles that were the most expensive at that moment and no one at all. If Roncevic is punished, I think he'll get life from your government. Because you've also got trains that are very elegant, today read fine as they are, inadequate trains without competition, eight compositions, the team is not engaged. Eight compositions, three of which drive. Tilt trains. So, without the 34m-euro bid, plus 4.5 million for which card readers and the like. So no one's on the team. So television pulled the line from 2003 to 2004 and ended. Well, I think you've done it very effectively, but I don't think there's going to be an end, because when it pulls out, I think it's going to be a different thing. So the bias in that case is extremely high. No editor can convict anyone in advance. I don't judge either. I believe that's what my colleagues did in good faith. By the way, buying eight luxury trains for that poor Lika railroad that's falling apart, right? That can't be different than with a big questionnaire and a big doubt. Why buy Mercedes for macadam? It means someone of interest was obviously there. So if we follow who is more talked about, then HDZ is often spoken of very often, very often in a negative context. So, whose television it is, we could talk about it very well. I hope there won't be anyone else's, that really objectivity will be more. And crying for individual editors, apparently has its purpose, as well as pressure. That's exactly what this was and there was pressure on the editors, and, uh, there's one election coming up again, and now we're gonna put pressure on the TV, you're theirs. Prove you're more ours than theirs. So these are already stalker stories, unobstructively normal, and that's where you need to end it once. So, there's a television we watch, which we do, which is totally fine. There are editors who are extremely correct in doing their job well, quality. Namely, there are very high-quality shows, people are mostly satisfied with what they see, normally everyone looks at their own and from this title I see corruption being mentioned. Corruption is somewhat less mentioned to me since television doesn't buy so many external programs. In fact, most of the time, when external programs were massively bought and almost self-produced, I think there was more to it. I believe that television has enough power for its own production and that would be good because there are a lot of professional people but here and there normal quality should always be bought and paid. So here I can say thanks for the report, it's extensive, it's quality, and I believe all the reports will be like that, and that's always a good basis for us to find out what on other occasions we can't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40328	Thank you. Five replicas. First Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40329	You say the government is proposing legislation and the opposition claims they are not good so it comes to Croatian television. Be careful, not only does the opposition feel that these laws are no good, so is the Croatian government because every little proposal of the law and then withdraws it because it is not good. You want from zero proms, you want from doing a shop on Sundays, you want about the Smoking Act, whatever you want. Well, he wrote you a columnist very funny about bringing another law of thermodynamics, and that Constitutional Court would bring down what kind of government you are. And secondly, I don't know what it would be like for you to defend Roncevic today when the State's Attorney's office asks this Parliament to remove his immunity because he's pressing charges against him. And that proves something about your role. Because you know, this request for the removal of immunity and this indictment, it affirmed one institution, an institution of the Assembly's investigation committee, because it showed that it made sense, because it showed that investigative committees can bring to the public evidence that has been squatting for four years in the State's Attorney's Office for four years, and that when they come to the public, these inconclusive evidence that they can encourage the State's Attorney to finally do their job. That also speaks of parliamentary deputies working in these investigative committees. Some try to get these evidence to the public, some try to finally satisfy justice and some like you try to hide it, some like you try to hide the testimony from the public, some like you insult the generals of the Croatian Army that they are illiterate and that they do not know the laws, the heroes of this country to cover up crime. And where do you think you're going today to defend Ronchevich?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40330	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40331	Well, I admire the wits of fellow Stazic as well as the numerous critics of his works in theatres that we read that made all this happen in the first place. But, well, that's another thing. In fact, if we're talking about the commission, we had one commission before, we proved all of Mr. Cacic's thieving, we proved it. We proved that there were seven annexes, let's say anex was 10 million and the main contract was 7 million and so on and nothing. I'm asking you if you have a relationship, you probably have at the State's Attorney's office to remind them a little bit of that case that Parliament's been working for them for three, four years now. So much for that. And as far as this case is concerned, I don't mind trucks, though. But I'm saying that a parallel case like that is multiple, financially significantly larger and huge damage that has been done does not process because Mr. Stazic is not interested in a little bit of scratching what his political mentor was doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40332	Second replica, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40333	Thank you very much. Mr. Markovanovic presented one thesis that HDZ often resorts to. When an affair is discovered, it must return very quickly in 2003, 2002, and seek another affair. And now he'd like HTV to work that same way and he's said to be afraid of why HTV doesn't pick on certain things. Mr. Markovanovic, you've been in all these institutions, you've been in power for six years, so why don't you wait for something if you've been nagging for six years. So let the public know, not that you're talking about some stories here, cars, macadams, Mercedes, and no one understands what you're talking about. And you're surprised why public television opens up the topic and broadcasts, doesn't just open the topic, it just transmits what the Assembly Committee has opened here, and that's intransparency in the acquisition of military equipment. Well, it's a couple of exellance topics to be broadcast by public television because it's a non-transparent business of a state official or a minister. If public television isn't going to transmit it, then I don't know what topic should I pass on. And as far as you're concerned, I'm saying if you have anything to take out, you can wait. For six years, you've been able to wrinkle and you haven't been looking for anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40334	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40335	Well, I'm sorry that my colleague Maras obviously doesn't know much. Because if he knew, he wouldn't talk like this. Why did I say that? Encouraged by your great praises to the investigative journalists. So, the press is investigating. Television's transmitting, but we're talking about the border. The border is from 2003 to 2004. Nothing's been explored before. We're not messing around, we're just saying that this same parallel case is twice as big with multiple damage done a year ago, and nobody's done anything. And if the train landed because it wasn't adequate today, we're reading other things. Let's say television skips that one train composition passed right before this government, and nothing happened to it, a simple train, a simple train for a simple railroad. But a special train like this was purchased without an 8-competition contest, obtained by no telling which or what kind of contracts, the negotiations he landed. Oh, my God, who's to blame? Probably us who weren't in power at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40336	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40337	We're talking about television and we're actually talking about ourselves. For six years you have been in power, for six years you have been able to file criminal charges with the State Attorney's Office for all irregularities that you believe are once guilty of conducting legal proceedings in the past in order to actually root out evil in the Republic of Croatia. No, that's not happening. But when someone kills citizens on the track, then we make up an excuse. When criminal charges against a minister who is currently under suspicion of having committed a corrupt act, you withdraw. What kind of messages are we sending to the citizens? Well, you don't have defenses, you don't know how to place yourself against the guilty who are working negatively in Croatia, who, unfortunately, create circumstances under which people lose their lives, you're just trying to send a message we're all dirty, we're all thieves. You know, the national, the people's "hold the thieves." It's the only defense. It's unfortunate that it comes out of these benches, unfortunate that it comes out during a theme that talks about television. You can yell, you can dirty the political space, it's not the first time. But remember, six years in power and your responsibility is if you haven't prosecuted the negativity you need, because your ministers, your people are in power. Or vice versa. However, the fact that there was nothing to process, and then the reason we leave is that there's a rumor that the truths and facts about the failures of the people you've chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40338	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40339	I have to tell my colleague Linic at first, I'm not yelling because I know I can't possibly compete with him in certain cases when we almost had a defensive position here... But what's there is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, why are we pulling out? We're not pulling it out at all. I'm talking again, why don't you set up a parallel. If something's being explored, then you have to say this is being investigated for this, and this is because of that, and it's not. Gentlemen investigative journalists don't deal with you. Why? Well, you probably know better. Which is why I'm not going in at all, even though I could talk a lot about it. And interestingly, in fact, all of what I've stated has something to do with you right now, and that's why you've been hit. How did you do that? Obviously not transparent because it was all direct contracts, obviously it was huge money, trucks were petty compared to what I was talking about. And nothing to anyone. Because there will still be talk of Roncevic's trucks, Roncevic is what, and you could say Linic's tilt trains, Linic's tilt trains, Linic's expensive fire Mercedes and things like that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40340	Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40341	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I am giving the replica to my colleague Markovanovic. Excuse me, Mr. Vice President has before me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40342	I don't see... Come on, keep going. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here I am supporting my colleague Markovanovic's debate. However, fellow Markovanovic, speaking of topics on TV, the times dedicated to certain affairs, investigative journalism and the like, may not have deliberately mentioned one topic, but I will mention it here and the affairs that are happening, which are not mentioned on TV, which is about what we have discussed in part today in this House. Namely, on TV, the soap opera shows up on a daily basis the contents and topics that I clearly support when someone there with a letter "U" comes to Thompson's concert, some young man who gets talked to and then repeats it every day, and it's okay to repeat himself because it needs to be educationally affected by youth not to go after what doesn't need to be done. However, our TV has never mentioned in one word any cooperation between our social Democrats with post-fascist Aleman in Istria when he came and was welcomed by Vojko Obersnel and Ivan Jakovčić and when it comes to the man who took the painting under Mussolini's picture, if the goat is not a horn, here's one and the other all there. How many times has our television talked about it? Not a single word. Not a single word. If our Social Democrats respect Mussolini back in '19. Then I'll use the turcism that you're using, then I'll tell the afering gentlemen on the left.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40344	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40345	Oh, here's just for a little while. Finally, if it's political topics, normally the interparty struggle here is present, but I don't think it's the same criterion. What we do is we go to all the zones, and what the former government did is not talked about. Why do we mention the former government all the time? Because they talk all the time this government sucks, we're you. And who are you? Who? Linic, Cacic, the whole crew that used to be. Well, then we have to tell people what they were doing because people are quickly, too quick to forget, and it's good to remind them occasionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40346	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40347	This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. This isn't the first time a representative in the House has addressed my name and connected me to the murders this time. You didn't react, Mr. President. He made it very clear that the trains were guilty, people died, Slavko Linic obtained them illegally. I don't mind, we can communicate with each other overly lofty, magnificent, dignified, but we can also communicate with thieves. But this isn't the first time I've warned the president that the name and last name of the finger is indicated, and... that there was also an illegality to write down the state's attorney's office's application. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if we're gonna be offended, I don't mind. As Mr. My colleague says, I can shout and scream as much as I want. I can go down to his level, I can really go down, but if you want to tolerate us calling each other murderers and thieves, I don't mind. It was just done by Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40348	I didn't see it that way...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40349	Mr. Representative used my name and death on the railroad. Inadequate trains, listen if you can interpret it, it's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40350	Let's not interpret something so far and make such far-reaching conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40351	But that was the debate. I don't interpret, repeat the argument, the name and last name.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40352	It's just, I know...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40353	And this isn't the first time we've argued like this, but this time by name and last name.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40354	You see, when you start opening a topic that has nothing to do with this topic...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40355	I didn't open it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40356	And when you get that way...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40357	I didn't even discuss it on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40358	But let's not make far-reaching conclusions right now in that causal and consequential chain as if, if something is criticised about trains and the deadly consequences that you are then a murderer. Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40359	Names and last names have been mentioned and dead people have.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40360	Okay. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40361	Here's a simple, simple violation of the Rules of Procedure. So Mr. Matkovic used the replica to mention what Mr. Markovanovic forgot to mention in his presentation. So that's not a replica, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40362	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40363	No, no, but please. This is Article 209 injured. You should have warned him that it was not a replica and did not allow him to continue to expose the topic that was not debated at all in the presentation of Mr Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40364	No, I don't. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40365	It is. Here he says.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40366	Let's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40367	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40368	Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40369	Answering the exposure of the exhibitor and replica, and he said what Mr. Markovanovic forgot to mention and began telling the story now. So Mr. Markovanovic's exposure has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40370	No matter how much I beg you. Well, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40371	Look.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40372	First we're going to be now, now we're going to be such purests at once, all the time all the time being MPs... in replicas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40373	But at least they're referring to the subject that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40374	It's no violation of the Rules of Procedure. You don't have to. Mr. Matkovic, this isn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Josip Djakic, replica. Peace, please. Come on, please, for once.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40375	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, here's a replica of a colleague with a few words that he failed to say about the work of the Croatian Radio Television Council. Well, a lot of times has been mentioned, perhaps even missed that television has been a party since the '90s. so far, that certain changes have been attempted. I'd agree even with that floor... Control since democratic Croatia came if it hadn't changed, but in the right sense of the word, I would say it is under party control, with honorable exceptions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Editors who non-partyly, humanely process topics, events, and thus place them. With honorable exceptions, which are rare. Today it is under party control, and today it is serviced by those who were in the function of Croatian Radio as editors of Croatian Radio, and this is the first programme, and they talk about party days and party monitoring on Croatian Radio. I don't know how they just forget those days when they were editing the first Croatian Radio program, when they spoke ether, then suddenly they ran away from party television and radio, and they went to a new party. And when we talk about the appearances of journalists it is true that from this High House, when it is used it is a hack and it is called the Tax Act of Harras, it is then on Croatian television that... this home she also launched by an editor who is probably your member. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I guess I don't know. When we talk about responsibilities on Croatian TV, but also in HDZ, I would say that we are responsible and because we are... Processed, i.e. The former prime minister and government have not launched procedures for both the Rijeka Bank and the Rijeka Shipyard, and for the purchase of trains, and tanks, and cars in the MUP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're responsible for all this because we didn't run. And I admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40376	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here are these last two debates, actually replicas related to duet Matković-Markovic has shown how you can talk about things that actually in me cause disgust. Here is the simplest disgust, everything Mr. Markovanovic spoke of, and Mr. Matkovic has nothing to do with the subject on the agenda. And then we wonder why the citizens of Croatia have such a low opinion of this House, such a low opinion of us politicians. Mr. Markovanovic also mixed pears and apples. First of all, Mr. Markovanovic also mixed pears and apples, first of all he does not understand that there is no investigative journalism on Croatian television. These topics that were on Croatian TV are not the product of HTV's investigative journalism. It's news reported by investigative journalists from some other media. So, if something's wrong with HTV, and he concluded this report, and then that's that the research journalism department is missing. And just the future citizens are also funding this Croatian television, something that should be crucial is investigative journalism. Totally, it's been said a lot, so I'm gonna cut back on everything I'm about to say. Full and objective information, and removing the discussion of possible corruption within HRT is actually the fundamental value of public television. I ask all of us whether Croatian Radio Television fully and objectively informs the Croatian public, and how it is measured at all. Here's what I'm wondering is whether Mr. Poppie and the Programme Council have the opportunity to order some independent research that would really give us information to the extent that the public considers Croatia's broadcasting credible. Is what we are looking at in Croatian, "Dnevnik" Croatian Radio Television authentic? Because I heard the interpretation, so it's the most watched show, people look at it and believe it, but it has nothing to do with credibility. The percentage of the viewing of Croatian Radio Television "Dnevnik" does not speak in any way about that being e.g. It's a credible show. Freedom of investigative journalism is the basis for raising public awareness, for example. on the harmfulness of corruption and the importance of its suppression. Public television should be working in that direction right now, but as I have already said on Croatian television, there is no real investigative journalism. No, because he's not allowed to be. We often wonder what we as politicians can offer to the press. So we have to offer them this Parliament and this Programme Council to do their job independently, without self-censorship and without pressure. So the purpose of the media is to inform, instruct and encourage the public, and monitor those who have power in society. And Croatian journalistic society has been warning longer about the decline of professionalism in all media and so on in Croatian broadcasting, and we have been able to read their appeal against, means an appeal for a profession for the public, and against censorship, because the current trend of avoiding important topics, forcing entertainment, spectacles, the domination of black chronicle, invention and production of celibrity ultimately results in the escape from journalism, censorship and self-censorship. The editors of one central information show at HRT could therefore ask how many candidates go to another election round, all competent experts run away from election emissions, and most competent journalists on HRT do not deal with competent issues. There is an ethical code that does not serve to protect journalists, but serves to protect the administration, and when it comes to corruption, the Program Council has very well detected problems. And I'm very pleased with their conclusions here. Because Croatian broadcasting does not only play a role in teaching the public and encourages them to fight corruption, but must fight corruption on television. It is very interesting to quote this paragraph, although on HTV the range of topics, but the emissions of the information programme dealing with corruption problems is large, more members of the HRT Council have warned on various occasions about the problem of the CROMAC lagging in the opening of corruption issues in the public as the absence of their systematic monitoring, which is linked to further missing working conditions for high, professional, research journalism on HRT which should become one of the main tasks of public television, this is a key paragraph. So, the task is this Assembly, the task of this programme council is to ensure that there is a department on Croatian television, I don't know what it will be called, the newsroom of research journalism, but I wonder how these conclusions about research journalism can be implemented at all, when at the two sessions dedicated to the topic of corruption in the media are just about Croatia's broadcasting, it happened that on the first journalist who said that there is virtually corruption in Croatia, and then he no longer came to the second session because he was told not to talk about it, it's about journalist Alexander Stankovic, and the second time the editor-in-chief, so the key person for the information program said that on the Croatian radio, you can check in the phonogram, there will be no investigative journalism, because it's for him a research department. So how will these conclusions of the Programme Council be implemented when there is no climate to implement what they themselves have written. There is therefore much more to be done that Croatian Radio Television is really doing its job, which is a job that I am tasked with reminding you that they are teaching, encouraging the public and overseeing those who have power in society regardless of whether they are HDZ or SDP's Mr Markovanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40378	Thank you. Two corrections. One Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40379	So here I have a colleague in a few sentences first said, "this has nothing to do with the subject." That's not true, I was talking about the selectivity of the program. The selectivity of what editors do. So they show each other no. So that's incorrect. Second, that we mixed pears and apples. We're not, we're not, we know what we're talking about, and we have proof of that for sure, but you do that a lot because as president of the National Council of Corruption, you're talking about the work of the Council, and at the end of the last sentence, you need to be replaced by the government. What right as president? Please tell me, I personally think a member of the party is this, but you're using, you abuse your position as President of the Council safely.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40380	Boris Matkovic, Mr. Representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40381	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would correct my colleague Jovanovic's incorrect claim that I was referring to my colleagues Markovanovic's untruths, that we had mixed pears and apples. Actually, that's not true. You obviously didn't listen to what I was talking about to my colleague Jovanovic, which you usually don't do on the left because you only listen to yourself. I was talking about how much time is devoted to a particular subject, to a certain content, or was it about whether an equally specific topic or content is being displayed? Not to repeat now the subject I was talking about. And secondly, it is true to a colleague, Jovanovic, that it is actually tragic that a parliamentary representative uses the expression that you used here for us as your colleagues, the word disgust is not worthy of one parliamentary representative in this highest House. ... To know that everything is worthy of you [[You can't hear the intruder.]] /Intruder: you just need to get down to that level. [[I told you in your face. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40382	Peace. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40383	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not talking about trucks right now, travel expenses, thanks to HTV for tracking, you can laugh, but thanks to HTV for tracking it. I think it would be a good idea for the director of Croatian Radio Television to be here, given that this is also a debate aimed at the work of Croatian television. I can conditionally accept this report as one way of supporting in order to change the way Croatian broadcasting works at all. I would more about this, in this debate, about public content on Croatian television, or on HTV, because it is about television for which all citizens are paying the subscription that is currently very large for many. So here is the area of the city of Đakov and Đakovština, a monthly collection of nearly 3 and a half million kunas from the subscription that goes to HTV for several thousand employees, fees, etc. And in time, then, the city of Djakovo and Slavonia is already 44 years old, so 44 Đakovci bonds will be held annually. Here is this 44-year-old socialism time, only once then, Zagreb recorded a procession going on Sundays, the first full weekend in July, during the 1990-2001 period, so, while in the city of Djakov, and Mr. Seks knows that the HDZ was in power once and for the last eight years twice. I believe that, therefore, because of these 3 and a half million kunas, but also given the overall programme that takes place during the Djakovci alliances, and I don't think it should all remind you that this is one of the biggest cultural events in Croatia, that it is completely illogical that during these "Djakovci ves" all of HTV teams were moved to our Adriatic where they film, here last year they shot 5 boys jumping into that "Blue Lake" and it was a 5-minute report in the first and central "Dnevnik" of HTV, respectively, until no pictures from "Djakovki ves" went through the central "Divnik". So, not to mention, in the programs that are of great quality, it's about the program of opening the bonds in front of Djakovack and Strossmayer's cathedral, which is Friday night, so it starts at 21 o'clock in the evening, when on the 2nd Croatian TV program you have a foreign series that is probably expensively paid, here you only need to put 3 cameras and transmit this live event in Djakov. It is also a weekly procession involving over 70 KUD, over 4 thousand participants. It's only been transferred twice in these eight years. And in the end there is certainly a program, so past the performance of the KUDs there in Strossmayer's Park because it is an international survey of folklore, there is certainly a selection of the best of wear that bounces from similar programmes on the "Vinkovar autumns" that are transmitted but it is about autumn, when all employees are no longer and there is nothing interesting on the Adriatic. I don't want to compare any of this event, not in autumn, not in relationships, but I believe that the bonds in the public television programme must have their own status and that it can't happen every year that I, whether I'm mayor or anyone else, make written calls for a meeting in order to enable the transmission of Djakovci bonds on HTV. Not to mention the biggest HTV failure that occurred in 2003 when St. John Paul II visited the four Croatian cities, where the only picture was not directly from Djakova, and even that shock hat on John Paul II's head, HTV is not recorded in its programme. So here I would also ask the president of the programme council and all those responsible on Croatian television to finally realize that the bonds of all these 44 years have preserved all tradition. And here these days is a society, or custom of the Gorian Leds, declared to be immaterial. I would like to say something to this programme, so this is my appeal, which is addressed and I can say that both the official and the editors-in-chief and the director of television have finally made a partnership with the city of Djakov in the long term, as well as with this one of the cultural events in Croatia. Finally, I'd like to say something about Thompson, who now my left, or right-hand side is saying something. He was four times in Djakov during my time as mayor, the bigger problem not what he sang. I know you like the verse "don't go left, but turn right", but he sings about both betrayal and about Judah's plagues etc. But the bigger problem is what happens at the end of the concert, that is, beyond what's there. This is where I normally build myself from never proven singing Jasenovac or Stara Gradiška jel has not been proven that he just sang it. Otherwise, I think we should all listen and then talk about it. A man sings of faith, love and country. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40384	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40385	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's what I'm going to do to my colleague Vinkovic, because we're coming from the same neighborhood in Slavonia. I commend what you said as mayor of your city about the cultural event Đakovci vezi. So I wanted to replicate and take this opportunity and mention Slavonski Brod and not wish it to you, because I know that you have a beautiful park and that Đakovički bonds when they are passed on I think of both the audience and the performers, and also for us Croatian television viewers, are a beautiful program, so that what happened in Slavonski Brod is not happening when they finally got a direct transfer of the boat's car, otherwise the oldest cultural event. To check on a colleague. And they got an appointment at noon, so at the time of lunch, when the event in the Boat Fortress looked at 15 viewers, because because of the heat and the possibility of any trees and no shade, simply the people at that time couldn't come. I do not want that to happen to you, because I know that you have the colors of the conditions but we in Brod, and it is recommended that the Croatian Programme Council of Croatians take care of the transmissions and conditions in which this programme of television is a space for organizers, so that all cities and regions that have valuable cultural manifestations that ultimately receive support from the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia are highly ranked, that they have a worthy transfer in Croatian television programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40386	Replica reply Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40387	I would agree with my colleague even though this was not a replica of my presentation, but I would once again appeal to the programme council but also to those responsible on HTV that they finally understand one thing that just Slavonia gave the most in the Homeland War along with all other parts of the Republic of Croatia and that the time had finally come for it to simply be part of the public television programme, and that this programme could not be affected by any political ties, or that such a thing should be no longer sought by political ties or by the thresholds of HTV. As far as the boat's car is concerned, the fact is, they're a year older than the Vesovs. Unfortunately, the ship is not as beautiful a city as Djakovo and has no such conditions for recording these entire programs, just like the Vinkovci.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40388	I think it should be Đakovače vesova, Vinkovačka fall, Osijek summer, Miholjačko summer, the summer of Vlapovačko, the Golden Wires of Slavonia, but the great Podravina, Črnkovci, Iločka harvest of grapes. And finally, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40389	Well, I'm just wondering, Mr. Vice President, if we should at all, that we should go to sleep after Andorra and Ukraine peacefully. We got in a hurry, we didn't solve anything. But I'll tell you something in which we act. Right in the one we've been prescribed. So all those who lift the bats know one thing. It is considered the most unsuccessful democracies in post-transition countries that have not lost sight of the early 1990s and of the primordial conflict as the main conflict in the policy that is being addressed this moment. This is also, Mr. President, something that you should have broken up because you haven't talked here in the last half hour about television.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40390	I can't hang up, I'm not the one to interrupt. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40391	... in the Rules of Procedure, we should stick to the subject as much as we can. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40392	I'm a Democrats, and I can't interrupt, it's not democratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40393	Okay, I hope you don't want me either. I've been interrupted several times in our friendly relationships. Can I get started? Now, this theme has one four themes and it's impossible to talk about all the topics. ... Each should probably have some expertise, perhaps even more complex expertise than those given, but of course this report and I support it first because it is a critical report. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Often people think that if they support something that comes from television, then they support all the nonsense on TV. No, this critical report I support it in a critical aspect and I would support it even more if it was even more critical. What I'm going to single out as a major problem in my opinion today on television is not an analysis of such or such a situation in terms of pluses or minuses, but actually of one major problem. The fact is that television got lost from that first party television, then from the party television, and then it got freaked out of politics as well as policy and conditions were created in the new law for something that was actually still unexplored and which now shows some of its defects. There's room left for what we've all hoped for and what we'd like, and that's to make television autonomous. Autonomous TV is witnessed by the character of the HRT Programme Council, the way it is elected and the distance that television has over it from the Parliament. That council has something to say to Parliament, it's reporting to him, it's giving him a report. However, even the rejection of reports by this Assembly about this council of yours would mean nothing actually under television. It is therefore a special equilibrium that has been established in how to maintain television as public television so as not to be a party from one side, the other from the other, so as not to be even political but to be independent. What we couldn't do in that law and what no one seems to be able to do, and that's how to make people like that, so they can use it to say better elements of the law and not worse ones. And today on television, the main problem for me is how to protect television in autonomy from that autonomy that includes itself. Autonomousness from understanding television as a group ownership of one or one group, one or more clicks, this or that segment, etc. We haven't learned that yet. We had a problem with the past council, with the past Programme Council that he realized that since it is now no longer of any party,... that they will form a party and with this other Programme Council we do not have yet to say so expressed this relationship or any other problem but here we hear Mr. Poppie was also interested in some changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is said, therefore, that the programming council does not have any authority, that there is no additional authority and then no power, etc. I would be in favour of seriously considering the question of how to help the Programme Council to achieve its role but it would have to be understood primarily as a role that would support this television not in a way that the Programme Council is superior to television but that in the equilibration of professionalism and television, editors' responsibilities as editors, journalists' responsibilities are created an ambience in which to say so it can be protected from groups within the interests and conflicts that we constantly hear and hear from newspapers, from internal attacks that become part of the public so that there are almost more heard in forums where each other attack outside of that television than likely that some things are solved on television etc. We have a very different kind of information. I've got them, and probably every one of us. There's no one who's not at some point in relationships with someone from television or with someone... TV hasn't heard the amazing things who stole all the money, which are all the groups, which are all done, which isn't done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we do not have any of this so that we can really determine whether it is or not. It's not something that's been going on for years, not an analysis of investigative journalism, it's a particular topic that's a little naive about what it means, but something else, a real analysis of bias. We don't have an actual analysis of incorrectness and I probably don't think anything bothers this council and that it might make it order from independents to say some agencies or rather those who do this kind of research. That would actually be possible for me to think we're getting some meaning about real progress. The issue of Croatian language remains an abstract issue, a question defined here as objective information and remains abstract. One is one and the other is objective information. However, we do not have some things that can be done so that they can be almost exacted. Therefore, as once spoken in this House, the bodies, messages, seditions, incorrection towards the interlocutor of individual leaders are all elements that are very easy to determine that they represent a certain way of saying the microcry of political or other options and that can be ordered and can be easily determined. We have another special phenomenon here. Why am I always, always in an ambivalent situation when I want to be extremely critical of what I want to be higher and higher television? This public television is the only public media in this Croatia, the only public media since I say a greater interest that is not private and does not fully reflect private interests. Part of the attack on television goes as part of a private media attack on the fact that it's public television. The question of research, so-called research. research journalism is an integral part of this issue where the concept of investigative journalism is actually very often composed through the order of investigative journalism by those who rule any media consortiums to obtain this or that truth. But when the Appelt comes and finds out what all the attempts were made so those same media didn't give it, then there's no question of how to censor this and that media news house and that there's no freedom of investigative journalism. But these same media, these same houses of others, private, constantly and permanently accuse public television of having no investigative journalism. If that's the case, maybe it'd be better if he wasn't. We have a problem, he's a real problem. When you solve these problems that are memory problems and problems I mean primedial hatreds that are... The real Balkans so unfortunately this Assembly is more Balkan than many other assemblies that may be east of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when these problems arise, then there remains a new problem here, so something that is protected from political pressure, where political pressure often arises, in fact, as the desire of some journalists or individual journalists, so to tell the group on a particular television to like one of the politicians, because we also have, even more such information than direct pressures. So when television is released from political pressure, it is preserved that what is public in that television, that what is autonomous in that television television is not subject to the partial pressures of individual groups on dominant television, who accuse each other in other media and where they cannot clear up the elements. It is a very unpleasant and very difficult task that lies ahead of this council and I would say that it is the task of some new phase, if we can say so, of establishing public television and its preservation. Perhaps there could be a way, there could be an institutional way, easily possible that this law individually preserved television in one period that now should change it, correct and correct it, but I'm just saying what the direction might have been. This direction could only be now this new quality that the television that has been preserved from politics is preserved and of private interest, to be preserved from its internal group interests as a form actually which, in my opinion, today makes public television less public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-14-0.u40394	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the topic of the proposal for a strategy for energy development of the Republic of Croatia, etc. according to the agenda. Second. Report on the progress of speech culture, full and objective information on the development of public content in the implementation of public television programmes, and the removal of discussion on possible corruption within HRT. Carrier of the HRT Programme Council. I'm voting on the next conclusion. "In line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the progress of the culture of speech, full and objective information on the development of public content in the implementation of the public television programme and the removal of the discussion of possible corruption within the HRT is hereby adopted." Please engage, please vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and two abstentions, the proposed conclusion was reached. The Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The HRT Programme Council is committed to submit an annual report for 2009, with a specific reference to the assessment of the situation, namely progress in the field of social, religious and national tolerance in the Croatian Radio and Radio Programmes". I am voting on this conclusion by the two constituency committees. Please engage, please vote. The result? I find that with 99 votes and one abstention, the proposed conclusion has been reached. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The HRT Programme Council is in charge of preparing a six-month report on the progress of the speech culture and the opening of a discussion on possible corruption within the HRT for the period from June to end of 2009, in line with the remarks and proposals made in the debate." I am voting on this committee's conclusion. Please engage, please vote. The result? Unanimously with 97 votes in favour, the proposed conclusion was reached. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has proposed to the Croatian Assembly another conclusion, which reads: "The HRT Programme Council is in charge to report to the Committee on the implementation of the HRT's obligations set out in Article 18 of the 2009 Annual Report. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages and recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee on the Preparation and Emission of Emissions in the Languages of National Minorities." I am voting on this committee's conclusion. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 98 votes to one abstention, the proposed conclusion was reached. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports has proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "It is the Programme Council of the HRT that, in accordance with the legal obligations, it affects public content programmes, especially those with a prominent information and educational function aimed at children and young people to broadcast in terms adapted to children and young people and to increase targeted announcements of these emissions." Please turn it on. We can vote. Score. Unanimously, with 100 votes, the proposed conclusion was reached. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports has proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The HRT Programme Council is in charge that, in accordance with the legal powers, it affects the content of the HTV sports programme in order to ensure a greater educational function of this programme." I am voting on this committee's conclusion. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. Unanimously, with 101 votes, the proposed conclusion was accepted. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports has proposed another conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: "It is proposed to the HRT Programme Council to consider, in accordance with the legal powers, the content of certain ads broadcast on HTV and their possible adverse impact on the behaviour and development of children and young people." I am voting on this committee's conclusion. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. Score. With 99 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
