ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40622	Well, in front of the IDS Club, I'd like a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40623	So what for?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40624	So because of these "recent" events related to the occasion in "3. Mayu" or in Croatian Smugglings. On Monday, Mr. Vice President, his cartel in Rijeka did not whine 1172 workers, and 1518 third parties were trying to do anything about it. Today there are workers on the streets, and the question is whether they'll be at the Employment Service tomorrow, so much I'm asking you to give me that 10 minutes to bring out what I think at this point is a first-class national topic. Not Mr. Kerum's divorce, it may be the next day when it comes to his 1500 employees, throughout the Republic of Croatia, but at this point I think that the first-class national topic of fate that I associate with the business of nearly 3000 workers, 1500 co-operatives, is in "3. Mayu’.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40625	Thank you very much. For these reasons I cannot grant you a break, it is actually a proposal to supplement the agenda. I can't give you a break. That's why we're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40626	We're not going any further, because...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40627	Let's move on. We're moving on to the draft law on the judicial academy. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law, you received reports at the session. Justice Minister Ivan Shimonovic. Here is an additional explanation of the proposal. Please sit down, Mr. Cain. Please don't take a break. Here you go, Minister. No breaks, I told you, over.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40628	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs. I'm here today to ask for support for the Law of the Judicial Academy. I didn't say I was looking for support for no reason. In fact, it is an extremely far-reaching law, a law that in some ways introduces a quiet revolution in the Croatian judiciary according to its scope, which should mark the next decade of our judiciary. What are these great newspapers that bring this Law? I'd say two are crucial. One objective and transparent criteria for entering the profession of judges or state lawyers and other their more systematic and quality education. While the issue of better education will take some time, I will later speak about the deadlines, the issue of objective and transparent criteria of choice for judges will be resolved immediately when at the end of this month or the beginning of next month, a set of laws that includes this law, which is before you today, the Law on Courts, the Law on State Attorneys, the Law on the State Judicial Council, or appropriate amendments and additions. As far as the judicial academy itself is concerned, it is not about the new institution, the Judicial Academy is already acting within the Justice Department as a Institute, but this is a major step because the Judicial Academy is becoming an independent institution, it is detached from the Ministry of Justice. The main bodies to manage the Judicial Academy are the Management Board, the Programme Council and the Director with two deputies. The majority of the Board of Directors and the Programme Council shall be represented by representatives who are elected by judges or state lawyers themselves. State lawyers and judges are the ones who manage in the professional and administrative view of the judicial academy. The Judicial Academy also has an independent budget of 30 million 596 thousand 323 kuna, a large amount in these times of crisis and recession, but that amount is necessary for the quality of the jobs of the Academy. The academy as a structural unit consists of three departments. One of them is a department that enables additional education for trainees, i.e. counselors, I would mention that, in fact, already now, following these recent amendments to the Law on trainees, the trainees have far more education than they had before have a mandatory number of hours to listen to, through this transformation, likely their scope of compulsory teaching will increase further. The second department, probably the most important newspaper, is the State School for Judicial Officials. In the future, anyone who wishes to become a judge, or a state lawyer, will have to finish after passing the judicial school. Simple trend in both Croatia and international education in general, including legal education is such that higher and higher educational requirements for individual professions are being placed, historically there were times when there could have been a judge and without a law school, and then a law school was being sought, and then law schools and judicial schools were being sought, and now a state school for judicial officials would be added. This is not a particular Croatian newspaper and specifics, but in the 94th year, the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe concluded that education should be extended and extended for judges or state lawyers and different Member States, with their dynamics and reactions, therefore, we already have more countries that have appropriate institutions. And finally, the third structural unit refers to lifelong education. The Judicial Academy has already been working on the lifelong education of judges or state lawyers, and over 3,000 candidates have passed through this year alone. With the introduction of this Judicial Academy as an ambitious and independent institution, there will be even more. Of course, the biggest newspaper is the State School for Judicial Officials. How do you get into that school? It enters that school on a competitive principle, and only the best candidates can enter it according to objective criteria. How do you determine the best candidates by objective criteria? We have already introduced an earlier Law that was before you, a judicial exam, which has no longer passed or failed but a judicial exam that is being filed. A candidate on an anonymous written exam where one who assesses does not know whose writing work estimates a certain number of points, then draws cards, answers questions all together. Therefore, the candidate in the judicial exam is collecting according to the results of a certain number of points. Candidates who have a high number of points, and who are interested in enrolment in the Judicial Academy, then approach psychological testing. Psychological testing is the same novelty required that as for a whole series of other professions, where it is particularly important that stable personalities and judicial professions are entered by persons who have passed, also of course anonymous psychological testimonials. After that, a structured interview follows. Who's doing a structured interview? For those interested in the profession of judges, the registration committee shall consist of 3 representatives designated by the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Office designated by the State Attorney's Council. The result, therefore, of the judicial exam plus the structured interview is the number of points won by a single candidate according to the winning number of points, interested candidates are filling in for that year's available seats at the judicial academy. The Judicial Academy has been going on for two years. These 2 years are mainly not theoretical teaching, but practical teaching within the framework of the state's attorney's offices, within courts, but also within other institutions. There were questions when we were working on this bill of law coming from our colleagues from the State's Attorney's Office, or the judiciary, why this extra 2-year-old education? It was simply because so far there was a huge difference in some people who were preparing for judicial duties while some had quality mentors and no judicial academy needed them because they were in good courts and had good mentors. Some others were less fortunate and had no organised programmes for further expansion of education, only doing routine jobs as an auxiliary workforce and would eventually welcome their appointment as judges, i.e. deputy state attorneys, under-professionally prepared. What's also a big difference? There is a big difference that so far those who wanted to enter the profession of judges, i.e. the state's attorneys, were in a rather vague advisory status indefinitely and their way of choosing was not objective. So you did not know that during a certain period of time after you passed the judicial exam, after you were a court counselor, or at the State’s attorney’s office, you would really reach your professional goal and become a judge. We had a counselor waiting five, seven, ten years to become judges. Here it is known that the best candidates finish the Judicial Academy and immediately thereafter follow their appointment. This has far-reaching implications as it also guarantees security for people of weaker property that if they respond to their professional obligations during schooling at the Judicial Academy they will come after its completion and will be deployed at the office of judges, or state lawyers. At the time of attending the Judicial Academy, they already have the status of senior advisors in courts, or advisers in the state's attorneys. During the Judicial Academy, mentors evaluate their work and finally join the final exam. Their final assessment is the sum of the grades they won in the judicial exam, the sum of their mentors' assessments and the end of their final exam. So the total sum ultimately reflects them and their quality as candidates. As a result of the Justice Academy, we have a list of candidates every year. Of the highest points scored against the lower ones and we have a list of seats available in our courts, or state's attorneys. Those who are more on the candidate list have the advantage of selecting available positions in the system. Of course, this change is very far-reaching and we will need to have a transitional period. So the state school is due to begin its work 01.10.2010. The first candidates to finish the Judicial Academy can therefore be expected by the end of 2012, i.e. early 2013. By 01 January 2013, a judicial academy will not be required to enter a judicial or state-level law firm. However, by changing other laws, we will guarantee that although they will not have the education that these candidates will have to complete the Judicial Academy, we have already introduced objective and transparent criteria of choice, so those who go by 2013 will be, who are now advisers or someone else with a judicial exam, selected for a judicial, or state-level lawyer's call through competitive written tests, which will also be written anonymously, with the assessors assessing the tests without knowing whose test they are assessing. And finally one question that plagued those candidates who passed so-called. The old jurisprudence exam, the ones who passed a judicial exam that was just passed or failed and didn't get a chance to score points. Are these people then excluded from the possibility of entering the State School for Judicial Officials? No, they'll just have to write a test of practical knowledge and they'll also be able to compete for places at the Judicial Academy. I'd like to point out one more time before I finish that this is a very big procedure. That this is a procedure that changes the architecture of our judiciary for a long period of time, that it is extremely important that a consensus be reached in the Parliament on this issue, because the consequences of the application of this system will cross the mandate of one and more governments. And I would also like to stress that we are open to all suggestions about the promotion of this text of the law, he, his current draft, was drawn up in cooperation with the President of the Supreme Court of Croatia and the State Attorney Bajic but after the first reading, a further public debate will be organised that will include a wider circle of judges and state lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40629	Thank you. Legislative Committee, Justice Committee. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40630	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. As part of the negotiating chapter 23. - The judiciary and fundamental rights, according to the evaluations and recommendations of the European Commission, and according to the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to introduce objective and transparent criteria for entering the judicial profession, as well as redefining the way of elections and roles of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council. In relation to the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council and its release from its influence by the legislative authority, we discussed the draft constitutional changes, and I think we will also discuss this in the debate on constitutional changes. In the matter of the appointment of judges and state lawyers, as an introduction to a judicial career, the candidate's obligation to complete a state-level school for judicial officials, which, in accordance with the negotiating position for Chapter 23, should begin working during 2010. To achieve this, it is necessary to provide for a legislative framework. We have already introduced the State School as a condition for the appointment of judges by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts which has passed the first reading in this House. And as we heard from the minister, it should be in a package with a final proposal, so in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Law on the State Attorney's Office and the final proposal of this law. The second step in forming a legislative framework is the law, a proposal that is before us today in the first reading, so the Proposal of the Law on the Judicial Academy under which the State School for Judicial Officials will act. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law, as an evolution in the further implementation of the draft objectives of judicial reforms that began in 2005 and the Strategic Study for the creation of unique, objective and transparent criteria for entering the judicial and state-level law profession and the establishment of a State School for Judicial Officials, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in December last year, because it meets the negotiating standard, but above all for the reason for which we are conducting judicial reforms, which is to achieve an impartial, effective professionalized judiciary, which is the basis of the rule of law of every democratic state. Only a well-educated judge, a judge with a firm legitimacy of transparent and objective elections, can be independent in political terms, can be authority in the courtroom and outside the courtroom, can be independent of the influence of political, media or large capital. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided by this legislative proposal to adopt the recommendations of independent experts of the European Union, and to establish a judicial school within the framework of the existing Judicial Academy, which systematically strengthens human and financial capacity, improves the quality and quantity of its activities in the continued professional training of the already appointed judges and state lawyers, as we have recently heard from the Minister and the implementation of the training programme. This law briefly proposes to separate the Judicial Academy from the Ministry of Justice and to establish it as an independent institution that will carry out the professional education of trainees, initial education and training of candidates for independent, responsible, independent and impartial conduct of judicial duties and continuous training of already appointed judicial officials. The founder of the Judicial Academy would be under this law the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and duties of the founders will be carried out by the Ministry of Justice. So also as a special department within the Academy, the State School for Judicial Officials would be established. Within the management system and programming, the Judicial Academy provides for administrative councils, directors and programme councils. So, in the board of directors, it is proposed that it be made by the President of the Supreme Court, the President, the Attorney General, the President of the State Judicial Council, the President of the State's Attorney-General and four elected members for four years, one of which would be the Supreme Court judge, one of the state's attorneys, the Deputy Attorney General and two representatives of the university teachers of legal science. I believe this composition of the Governing Council is good, because it represents, because in it, the very top of the judiciary is strengthened by legal science. I'm opening a doubt here today and I'm giving it some thought, whether in this body you keep as so far as there have been representatives of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice. So far, has the representative of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice been a member of the Advisory Council of the Academy, as well as advice on monitoring the implementation of the Justice Reform Strategy? Is this other body still there? I don't know, but I can say that my experience as a minister was, I kept it important then for Parliament to be informed and in some way oversees the implementation of important strategic documents and decisions it has made, and that it has insight into the need for possible enlargement of the legislative framework. But I don't keep it necessary, but I suggest that we consider it. The programme council is also composed of judges and state lawyers and university teachers and it is a good combination of experienced practitioners and representatives of science. So, we welcome the good intentions and support the adoption of the proposed law with several notes and doubts that we are suggesting here as the minister has urged us to improve this legal text. So, first of all, in Article 2 I believe that paragraphs 2 and 3 are unnecessary. It is unnecessary to highlight special cooperation with the Faculty of Law, because it will happen through the administrative and programme council, and if this remains then it should be specifically pointed out and specified in the context of this and cooperation with courts and state attorneys, perhaps in the same way. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. I find it particularly important to arrange the activities of the academy. If this law is the founding act of the Academy, then this law should define the activities and not leave them to be determined by the statutes as broadly as possible, so I suggest that the exact activity of the law be determined and added to it that it can engage in publishing activities or organise other educational activities, so what is stated at the end of Article 43. In Article 12(2) and (3), therefore, these are details on how to work within the academy and I hold that they could be left to the statute of office while connecting Articles 11 and 13. Article 14 and 21 which are related to expenses should be linked to one article or shall be timed in the light of the same costs in the case of the Programme Council and the Administrative Council. What I also hold important is in Articles 15 and 20 that it is illogical for the administrative board to confirm the annual programme of the Academy's work as a higher body and the programme council as a lower body to bring the general training programme on its own. If I understand clearly the distinction between these two programmes for me, it would be more logical for the administrative board to confirm the general training programme and that the annual programme is self-administered by the programming council or that both programmes are confirmed by the administrative council. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 25, which says that the tender is being opened on the basis of the plan of the necessary judges in one year. This should be considered for the reason that education in the state school takes two years and the first candidates leave after two years of education and maybe the plan should be based on two years and also more clearly determine whether the competition is being called for entry into the state school for a specific judicial post or for a collection of the necessary judges in the area of one or more counties. So that should be more precise and clearer. In particular, I point to the collapsing of Articles 26 and 28. Therefore, Article 26 states that any person who is a Croatian citizen and has passed a judicial exam can apply to this contest. However, this is simply not true because Article 28 says that a person who scored 70 points on a judicial exam or on an additional exam of those candidates who passed a judicial exam per so-called. The old criteria. So, the condition for the competition is Croatian citizenship, the judicial exam and 70 points on the judicial exam, and there are direct collages of these two articles. In addition, it should be clarified and better formulated in Article 28. And one more thing, use exams because they use exams or conversations. This can't be a conversation, so it's a test which the conditions, questions, the scope of this examination brings to the programming council and confirms the administrative council. So it's a classic exam, you don't have to point out that he's written because he's the only one, no writing or oral. Therefore, it is necessary to say the exam. And there is another point to point out, that a psychological test which is an elimination test and a test which is an elimination test must be carried out in accordance with the Content and Methods Regulation established by the Administrative Board. Therefore, this should be highlighted in the provisions on the laying down of the psychological text and on the taking of this examination. Article 42 should also lay down framework criteria for the selection of candidates for a permanent training programme. In this law, if we are to achieve transparency, then we should try to objectively objectively at least some more of these criteria. Here, and just one more thing. The question remains whether this law should address at least the minimum conditions for the Director of the Judicial Academy because, in accordance with the Law on Institutions, it is determined that the conditions are laid down by law or by a founding act and what would be this law. And finally, because I see time coming out of the bill that today is here before us is a good basis for realising the strategic government's decision and commitments to join the European Union. It remains somewhat questionable where, in the selection of judicial officials, the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council are lost, i.e. there are no provisions in this law on how to act after the evaluation has been completed, so that they are referred to by the State Judicial Council or the State Attorney's Council for further appointing procedure. Otherwise, if it remains this way, then it remains that the choice for judges is actually made by the State Judicial Council or by the State Attorney's Council, or by its three members who have been elected by unknown criteria, and therefore this should be resolved between this law and the Law on the State Judicial Council. And in the end, there remains a question of whether this proposed way, whether we have fully achieved the introduction of the desired objectivity and transparency because we are not at least indicative criteria of elimination tests and psychological tests introduced. I leave this as one doubt. And there is also a question of what with all the candidates who have passed the judicial exam so far, they have general conditions, but something the minister has been talking about is the time limit because we have introduced a mandatory state school for all judges in this country except for judges of the Supreme Court, which I doubted and in the debate on the Law on Courts, and then only judges of the Supreme Court will be able to be respected lawyers of whatever it means without a state school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40631	Thank you. SDP advocates' club Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40632	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club supports the adoption of the Law on the Judicial Academy fully convinced that only education and education in general, and in their own hands those who decide on our fates, our most valuable goods, honor, property, freedom require the highest possible and permanent education as the only dam and the only rights of the dam each one opposes politics against this third branch of government. This is the opportunity, therefore, and the best way to finally, as politicians without any party colors here, take a unique stance towards the third branch of power towards the judiciary, because we are responsible for raising this profession rather than lowering it. The truth is, it should also be critical of the judicial authority itself because of the trouble that this or that policy still carries on every profession and every individual is responsible for it from time to time. Being a judge doesn't mean being a civil servant who has a specific time. Being a judge is a way of life. How do we reach an independent and effective judiciary? We see that if it has been burdening Croatia for decades, it is burdening it to get closer and finally enter the European Union. How do such judges come to be priests of justice? First of all, politics needs to lift its paws from the judiciary itself. The way it's been done recently, I think it's finally over, and we welcome it, that orders were issued, and that's public judicial authority. And even in some of the impotences of state policy to end the most cruel and dangerous crime. That's what the public demanded. But even in those moments, you can't issue orders to the judicial authority no matter how much the public wants to get to the perpetrator immediately. There are people responsible for that. So how do you make a qualitative shift? Let's just remember that back 10 and over years, judges have refused every thought and judicial officials to be further educated. We've passed justice, so we've already had experience. Why should they be educated? Thus, such a delusion, including an initial resistance, has long been overcome. And the beginnings, therefore, with the education of judges and other judicial officials, have experienced that especially younger judges, and even more experienced ones, are also very happy to attend scientific gatherings where they exchange experiences, opinions that are very much leading to a unique legal practice and which are a guarantee of the legal certainty of citizens. So this is exactly the best way to get to that kind of judge and generally a judicial official. That that old Roman principle is pushing the new girl, that the court knows the law is not only a conjecture but a real reality. Because even as those old sayings teach us there is no greater trouble for the party than there is an ignorant judge. Because in such a situation, one who is guilty and unfounded is seeking that hope, he believes that he can even succeed. And those who are innocent, who justifiably seek in front of a civilian court some claim, the fulfillment of some demand or the request of another species when they are right, he is in fear that perhaps his, after all, that his cause will not end well, or that he will not experience an adequate judicial epilogue. And on this occasion, I want to say that we are responsible here for what laws we pass. He's still crawling. He's running laws with contradictions. I'm just going to point out one example now because it degrades the judicial profession. Is it possible, then, in the Family Law, that you have an inconclusive assumption that a mother is always the one who gave birth to a child. And when you shoot down there, that is to say, you give the possibility of a woman whose egg cell has been taken from her against the law so that she can challenge the motherhood of the woman who gave birth to that child. So here's an example. We haven't, the court practice hasn't met with that kind of problem yet. But it's very certain that it can be found. Thus, when it points out opposition to some indifference, no matter what attitude is taken, we must take care of it. And then there's a lot of legal uncertainty in different interpretations. So we are responsible for what tools we give to the judicial profession, i.e. the judiciary in general. I would like to say immediately that the assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of this law at first will certainly be sufficient. As the minister said, in this time of recession, it was not easy to allocate this amount, but these were not wasteful. Every education means less to the state budget, to segregate for all those repetitive proceedings because, as far as I am concerned, the court procedure is costing me in a way that reduces costs or fees he is always too expensive for the party and is hoarded with a great waste of time. So this is one of the best ways to get to an independent judge. Let us remember those first beginnings which history had had, in essence, this Judicial Academy which is now being placed on a new foundation, but it has as it is here in its reasoning, and states its beginnings in the recommendation of the Council of Europe and of the Council of Ministers of the Member States right now to empower, i.e. institutions, bodies that will deal with the education of judicial officials. And then what happened in the 1990s? We can never do that. Yes, because of this recommendation, the decision was established by the Centre for the Education of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. The decision itself was no means whatsoever, and no one heard of it anymore. So, in 2001, 2002, we secured that decision based primarily on space, there was no space in which the academy now operates. These beginnings, therefore, were the beginnings very modest with little means, with insufficient numbers of people. After two years, three he pompously got the name of the academy and he was pretentious to what he really is even though it has been many years. So precisely with this bill of law, we expect that this is exactly the kind of academy that justifies that name and in that sense. It seems to me, speaking here in the name of the club, that the composition of how the board of directors is good and guarantees just preventing any way, and also in some way just and mutually internal control, which is always good for these bodies. Both the jurisdiction and the board of directors, but later when we see the academy’s own activity, which not only carries out the professional training of trainees and advisers, it organizes and conducts continuous professional training of judicial officials. We are witnessing that often individual seminars can't be attended by all those judges, all those judicial officials who would want to. Of course, it must always and at all times be ensured and uninterrupted management of court cases that are daily in front of our courts, but here is one way and this is the opportunity to talk and that there were not enough resources there either, because the response and the desire for such an education is much greater than the material possibilities allow. There may be only one problem, or one that is concerned that in the best wishes and all these transparent conditions which have now been presented by the minister, I do not want to repeat at all, because there is really nothing to add and really guarantee transparent entry, or later promotion, promotion within the judicial or generally judicial professions. However, if each profession is closed in some way, it passes into the casino itself, there is not one fresh new wind, a new way of thinking that is needed at the end whenever changes are made, and to a greater extent, system system laws. In order for this to happen, it is necessary here, although these express norms do not justify such fear, but later when only judicial advisers are mentioned, only lawyers, state attorneys, only court practitioners, when we see little and the practice of the State's Attorney's Council, and even the State Judiciary Council, then we see who once entered it simply sooner or later progresses, and opens or closes, the area for those who were not initially turned to judicial officials, but let's say they have a great experience in the economy, because this is something concerning the sanctioning and processing and economic crime and financial professions themselves is a deficient judiciary as far as it is concerned. Therefore, these are valuable experiences that some lawyers acquire in companies. Once upon a time, it was viewed with disrespect to lawyers who came from the economy, as they were spoken. Today it is a great knowledge that judges, who meet on a daily basis, as well as in civilians, and even more importantly, in criminal matters, lack education. Therefore, such persons are valuable to the judiciary and should be provided, regardless of their age, with the possibility that even such persons, regardless of who will bear these costs, should bear the costs themselves, but should be allowed to be introduced into this system of education, which is then the only prerequisite for first entry and later progress within the profession itself. This may need to be explicitly highlighted by the second reading, perhaps in a single norm, so that this bill itself will be called to such persons who are deficited in the judicial profession, who have no doubt the consequences of the party itself. And not only in trade, it may be even less in commercial courts, but I certainly repeat here in civil and criminal matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40633	Thank you. HNS MPs' club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40634	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. I must say that it would be particularly important and important to have the opportunity to speak on behalf of the HNS Club about this law, because our opinion is that of all government strategies, action plans, various other ideas that we have discussed here over the years, as regards judicial reform in our opinion this small and unremarkable law is absolutely the most important thing. I can see that he has not caused any special joy in any of the parliamentary representatives present in a relatively small number, but as far as judicial reform is concerned, we believe that if he is conducted with some of the supplements as he writes here, or if he really does, and not as many of our laws are written and never properly implemented, it may be the most significant contribution to judicial reforming, because he is addressing a subject that has long been bypassed, which is the subject of the quality of the trial, i.e. to say the very specific quality of judges. And access to a key dilemma whether judges are chosen on the basis of a general impression, an individual attitude, a certain number of people who make up the State Judiciary Council or their direct superiors in courts or are chosen on the basis of some objective and all available criteria and all available ranking lists made up on the basis of these criteria. As you all know in the latest report of the European Commission, which is not the most important because in my opinion in this case, the most important standards that we, as citizens of this country, are provided in the judiciary, but also in the Commission's progress report on Croatia towards the European Union twice mentions this particular topic. Many others related to the chapter of the judiciary and fundamental rights are also mentioned, but this topic is also mentioned, therefore, by the Judicial Academy, that is, objective criteria for the selection of judges and state lawyers. Here we must be fully aware that if this law is yet to be properly dressed and applied, it is a new foundation, an unequivocal new basis for selecting judges and state lawyers. Both those who enter the profession for the first time and those who advance in the profession. So, the only thing where it can't be influenced in any way is those who have reached a peak in the profession with them we'll have to make peace and wait for retirement. For all others, new criteria are introduced where no longer important genetic origin, who is whose son or daughter, may be whatever they want, will be important as to what grade he received in the test and based on these assessments will be able to enter the profession and advance in the profession. Several general questions and then several specific questions or suggestions related to individual articles. We at the HNS Club failed to reveal any clear provision or clear item that would talk about the public internet publication of a ranking list of judges entering the profession, so those who have completed the Judicial Academy, as well as public internet publication of test results for those judges who go to a project of lifelong education that goes to the Academy to be able to advance in the profession. Secondly, we have not seen anywhere where it is determined that the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council have an obligation to respect the ranking list. So that the ranking lists are mandatory to make those decisions because if not, then it's actually all the same. Thirdly, we think it is good that the criteria for these exclusive exams, for these exams as well as psychological tests are not prescribed in this Law because the whole idea that politics prescribes it. It is something that should be left absolutely to define which profession, then that profession prescribes it and it would be really inappropriate for politics to prescribe criteria of psychological testing or for success in psychological testing or notes of bene for testing knowledge from the judiciary. A few practical suggestions. In Chapter 5 of Article 24. Therefore, professional training at the State School is discussed about the purpose of the school, therefore the purpose of attending that school. We at the HNS Club believe that this should be indicated and suggest this for a second reading as one of the purposes and establishing objective criteria for selecting and promoting judges and state lawyers, so in Article 24 where reasons and purpose of that school is discussed it would be good to specify explicitly the objective criteria for selecting and promoting judges and state lawyers. Furthermore, Article 31 speaks of the fact that the list of championships is drawn up on the basis of the sum of points that the candidates have made on the judicial exam and on the conversation, and there is a detailed analysis of which the maximum number of points can be obtained from certain segments of the exam, however, nowhere is there a reference to the publication of a ranking list based on this testing and evaluation, which is in fact the only real guarantee that the test results are respected and not any other criteria. Therefore, and if candidates themselves and anyone who wishes enter the website and sees this ranking list, then it is the best guarantee that there will be no jumping or using any other criteria other than those established in this procedure. So we think that maybe somewhere, maybe this is Article 31 somewhere else, by saying that the ranking list or the list of championships established by objective assessments is being published on any website, so it's only important to be available and generally checked. The third direct remark relating to Article 36 is the same thing as that relating to people who qualify for the State's Attorney's Office, the last sentence here ‘the decisions of the State Judicial Council and the State's Attorney's Council shall be final when there are complaints’, to the assessment received by the person or the rank which he has reached. It is also unclear whether the list will be produced, so a person can complain because he is on the list on 73rd, or only the person who has been tested will receive these results, and therefore complains to the State Attorney's Council. So here, too, it should be precisely because of the possibility of a complaint to introduce a provision that speaks about making a list and publishing a list to keep that list on the Internet, to make it public, available to everyone, so that we can see why people complain that there is also no room for subjective and arbitral decisions. The third remark, or fourth pardon, refers to Article 42, which refers to the professional improvement of progress. And here in Article 42, where this is mentioned, it is not clear whether the promotion of the basis of this Law is also given points and whether, on the basis of these points, any rank list was simply a list of people with associated points that were obtained from the testing of the different species that are spoken of in this law, so the testing of knowledge and psychological test where each man who goes in the process of advancement is known precisely or rang, so which of those who have entered into the process of education is further, or at least that, without drawing up a ranking list, they join each person with points that he has received or received in this additional education and which are then the basis for further progress. Fifth, the last article of the 50th says, "This law enters into force on January 1st 2010. We'd like to ask the CNS to explain what that means. So, do people start going to that school on January 01, 2010? Are these criteria starting to apply in 2010? Are you starting to think about the selection of people who could possibly go to that school? Is school starting to be established in 2010? This is extremely important because, as you know, 2010 should be if we have abilities and strength, the last year of our negotiations. If there is one thing that is crucial to be resolved during our negotiations on the accession of the European Union, then this is it. Therefore, the introduction of objective criteria for selecting and promoting judges in the judiciary. This is something we have to start with before we conclude our technical negotiations and it is therefore very important to know exactly what it means to take effect in early 2010 to know what we can count on next year. Anyway, this law is a good thing, an important law, the HNS club will support it. We are only asking, and we will also be careful and alert, because it seems to me that there is a certain tendency that one good idea of different insignificances and different additional or amendments or vaguely resolved issues that are diverged to insignificance and that is in our opinion our last chance of doing something is too much to do in judicial reform, and if we do this indiscriminately to one level where it will not be applicable or where there will be hot water and nothing will actually be done then we have cut off a very important branch in which we sit in more ways than one. So, the quality of judges, the quality of services to citizens, and then the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40635	Thank you. SDSS Club, Mr. Representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40636	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. The SDSS Club also considers this law to be one of the fundamental laws for the future reform of the judiciary that we must seriously and permanently approach and I think we should have joined this reform long ago, but well. We, I don't think I'm wrong if we're going to say how we understood this law. So, we think that the Proposer has sought to institutionalise one need that has emerged by following the phenomena and results of work within the justice system and the state's attorney's office, and certainly the need for a better response to the challenges of the process of adapting the domestic justice system to the future European judiciary. It is indisputable, quite normal, that knowledge today is a dynamic category and that it certainly needs to be upgraded, and this is particularly expressed today in the legal profession. Today we are facing a major business of normative compliance with the acquis of the European Union, mainly with new standards, with the rules of procedure and even with other legal schools. But even if it wasn't for this job that we have to do, there would be a real need to perfect legal professionals because of our reality and what system of justice we are in today. Therefore, due to phenomena such as the enormously long procedures that the European Union reports warn about, due to the rulings of the domicile judiciary in the field of fundamental human rights that are being challenged before the institutions of international trials, due to at least some strange judgments, such as when the damaged sued the State for damage to property resulting from terrorist acts or the loss of loved ones, and they are then rejected even the convicted are rejected with their claim and even the convicted compensation of the costs of the proceedings and are allegedly seized by assets and about the last of what they have to compensate for such litigation proceedings. Or finally, because of judgments to take away the tenant's rights that are spoken of in repeated proceedings and refuted. Therefore, it is an ambience which, even if there was no need to comply with the acquis, would require judicial reform to be made in a particular direction, and we think this is a path that could end well. Before I go in, before I look at the criteria that are given here, for the functioning of the academy and the state school, I'd say just something, possible as some kind of remark. So, in this opening part, we have not seen any concrete example of how this problem has been solved in the countries of the European Union, nor what criteria have been put in place for the education of judicial staff in the countries of the European Union, nor what criteria do we have to choose people for the education of this type, which I think would be good if we were able to see in the opening part. Let's simply combine it and see if these criteria we are preparing here are compatible with these European experiences. I think that here, at least in a few thesis, we should present the experience, not in the form of reports, but simply some positive experience of work so far, but of our current academy. It's just that we who wanted to say something about this topic would have a more complete view of all of this that we're talking about today. So, as my predecessor said, the criteria for the work of the future academy and the state school are in some legal sense, condicio act qua non throughout the project, in our view. And we think it's the basis of this whole project as a reform of the judiciary. Why is that? I'll try to refer to the three groups of criteria that we've somehow set out here as the most important. First, the basic prerequisite is to attend a state school is to pass a judicial exam, which is a perfectly logical thing. According to that experience that we have, unfortunately, that a young lawyer could access a judicial examination, he has to take a training course. I'm afraid for young graduate lawyers it's a real bingo to get a chance and have a chance to resign, meaning they're putting on a training internship, whether in the judiciary. And it's even bigger bingo to get it in private practice, so attorney's office. And that's something that needs to be discussed in particular, because it's actually the basics to get into the sphere of justice at all and to have someone who's trained now in the Bologna system, three plus one plus one, plus one, see themselves in some judicial profession. I've spoken to a few young people who have been highly rescinded, who have had good results at the university in final grades, but simply for a number of reasons I can't get in their midst to an opportunity to set aside this training internship. When it comes to this internship, there's one question to ask. So, if we're saying that this training internship lasts for two years, that the Bologna alone takes five years, that's seven years, and this concept that you've now predicted for two more years, we're practically going to get me to have that graduate lawyer studying, educateing himself for nine years. Then, after nine years in some 30 ’ s, he was a complete member of society and justice to restore what was invested in him. So it's a fact that's being carried out as a conclusion of some kind of math. So, for nine whole years, we're going to educate for a subpoena we're going to educate young people. The question is whether such long education is necessary at all, regardless of what we have said so far in terms of the need for qualified education of reform, etc. The second criterion is state school. Here we said that the basic census is the threshold of 70 points. It's possible to talk about whether it's too high a threshold. We know we're looking for the most perfect personnel, people with very high grades. But do those who have 69 points not enter that category and have no right to attend an academy or state school? Also a psychological test, the point is that after 9 years of this kind of higher education, should people be subjected to some kind of psychological studies and treatments, etc. Although it's kind of acceptable for us. But what is not acceptable is this third criterion, which is ultimately this conversation, which I repeat, after 9 years of long-term schooling, now finally this man who went through all those stages to hold a conversation before some committee, whose composition here you have defined and is not the subject. But simply comes to the question of the objectivity of this conversation can the next professional career of such a man? Or another thing, can we, after so many years of schooling, allow one conversation to lead to someone being eliminated and that some subjective relationship of a member of the commission to that candidate or some sort of preconception or some preconception is eliminated and said no, that's the limit you didn't skip and so this whole exam of yours isn't over and you're out, so you're eliminated from a further professional career. So I think, with all that you've said, I don't think it's acceptable for us to have this kind of conversation just because of the question of the objectivity of such a conversation with certain groups, it's an important element for us to get a final assessment of schooling at the state school. And the third criterion that is most important to us is, we believe, that it is important to introduce in the content of Article 31 a provision which is called for in a consistent application of Article 22. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which takes precedence in filling places in the lists of the State School Championships, therefore under the same conditions, not under privileged conditions, but under the same conditions, shall be given to members of national minorities. I think it's very important, and I'm asking you to put it in the provision of that article. It can only improve the quality of this article, it can not harm. And I also think that this will be the subject of an assessment under the criteria of compliance of the judiciary with the acquiss of the European Union. Here, if that's one suggestion that will be accepted, then about this kind of concept of the Law on the Judicial Academy would be acceptable to us, if not, and I have no doubt that you won't do it, so I won't even say in some negative context if you don't, that this concept is not acceptable to us. Therefore, we ask that you enjoin these suggestions, see if I was right or if I was wrong. And in the second reading, and it's expected that this law will be in the second reading, that this all comes together, and then it would be for the SDSS club as it was acceptable. And just in the end, the entry into force of the provision, we think that the entry into force as defined by this date is premature, that there are some more practical adjustments in life should be arranged and then we just have to allow this legal text to take effect something later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40637	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40638	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a draft law on the Judicial Academy. First of all, this law should be observed in the context of the conclusion of the negotiations with Chapter 23 with the European Union in the context of the Council of Europe recommendations, in accordance with the harmonisations made by the European Union countries in their legislation as regards the education of judges and state attorneys and also in the context of the recommendation of the mission of independent experts, which is necessary for the Republic of Croatia to do in its judicial, state-law and other judicial staff. First of all, this law should be observed through two very important dimensions. It is primarily about trying to establish an independent and independent body that has a primary task of permanent and lifelong education and training of judicial officials, and in the second part of the establishment of a state school within the Justice Academy is definitely... a new institutional framework which has not existed so far and which will, primarily, take a major step in the first hiring of judges and state officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is our desire here in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament and, as Mr. Minister said, this is the first step, a very important step that will be overcome by this composition, which will be overcome by two more, three new governments. First of all, it is our big step for the future of the Croatian judiciary. We want to provide education with tasks, tasks and difficulties that are in front of the Croatian judiciary but also in front of the European judiciary, capable of dealing with the times and problems in which we live. We are still witnessing moments where the permanent and effective action of the Croatian judiciary is expected. Unfortunately, in some cases, the ineffectiveness of the judiciary has been recorded, so I can say incompetence in solving certain cases because what we have achieved if we have invested a great deal of money in some judicial procedure, in some operational action if it has fallen due to some material and procedural assumptions in court. Our mission is also in line with our entry into the European Union that the judicial, state-law and judicial when it is ready for it to be fully independent, it is impartially in line with our legal profession to do its job. And this is the ultimate goal of this Judicial Academy, which will also provide the Government of the Republic of Croatia with 30 million and 500 in 2010 and 30 million in 700 thousand kuna in 2011. These are certainly justifiable means which have a higher objective and this is a transparent exercise of judicial and judicial duties. With this bill, the judicial academy will not only have a special responsibility but will have a primary task to present itself in the future and in the Croatian public confidence in the Croatian judiciary. So, at the Judicial Academy, on its administrative bodies, it is for everyone who participates in this lifelong education of future judicial personnel to protect the reputation of both the state's attorney and the judges in the profession who will work in the future and these days that are ahead of us. It is a very important task and is in line with those basic and basic assumptions one of the necessary conditions to return may be a little divided trust of the public today, but also of our voters who elected us here to the Croatian Parliament to really protect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and also of the positive legal regulations. Nomotechnically speaking, there are small irregularities in this law, above all in the final exam and in the composition of the commission which will therefore be appointed when the candidate takes the final exam. It is not indicated whether it will be done by regulation or by some other decisions, I think it is important in this second reading, such as colleagues in the debates of the club MPs said this nomotechnical some indetermination to bring this into line. And finally, not to repeat what's already been said, I fully support the draft law on the Judicial Academy. I believe that this is the first important step that will have far-reaching results in the future and that, in full and in line with the proposed changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and by the process of completing negotiations with the European Union, will make a big step for an independent, objective and transparent Croatian judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40639	Thank you. At 10.49 hours, it is time to report a ten-minute hearing. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40640	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, state secretaries, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Respecting the Council of Europe's recommendation that Member States are obliged to ensure the proper training of candidates for judicial duties before their appointment in order to raise to a higher level of professionality and their responsibilities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a strategic study in its conclusion of 19 December 2008 to develop uniform, objective and transparent criteria for entering the judicial and state-guarantee profession and the establishment of a State School for Judicial Officials. That study provides for an obligation to establish uniform, objective and transparent criteria for entering a judicial and state-owned law profession that will ensure greater professionalism and significantly improve and train candidates for the conduct of a judicial or state-guarantee duties, as well as the acquisition of the expertise and skills necessary for the conduct of these functions and progress, which primarily ensures the principle of independence of judicial officials. By proposed law, the Judicial Academy, which has so far been established as an institution of the Ministry of Justice, shall be separated from the Ministry of Justice and shall designate as an independent institution with the property of a legal person to be entered in the court register of the institutions and whose founder is the Republic of Croatia while the rights and duties of the founder would be exercised through the Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Judicial Academy, within its activities, conducts the professional training of judicial officials, judges, state lawyers and deputy state attorneys as a permanent complementarity and the improvement of knowledge and skills for the conduct of judicial and state-level attorneys, as well as professional training of trainees and advisers in judicial bodies, indicating the need to establish a State School for Judicial Officials within the Justice Academy to organise and implement the initial training of candidates for judicial officials. Otherwise, according to the proposal, the Judicial Academy has an administrative council, directors and programme council. The Administrative Board shall manage the Academy and shall have 9 members, the Head of the Management of the Judicial Academy, represent and represent the Academy and implement the decision of the Governing Council. The Programme Council shall be the expert body of 9 members who brings programmes from professional training candidates for judges and deputy state attorneys attending the State School for Judicial Officials, as well as programmes for continuous completion and improvement of knowledge and skills for the conduct of judicial duties and professional training of advisers, trainees, and mentors and lecturers at the State School. The proposed law in Chapter V discusses professional training at the State School for Judicial Officials as a special establishment unit in the course of the Judicial Academy, and the selection process of candidates for enrolment in school, starting from the very opening of tenders for the reception of candidates, written examinations, psychological examinations, conversations, the establishment and publication of the list of candidates for admission to school until the final exam, the verification of practical knowledge and skills acquired at school and the establishment of the final assessment of the students of the school and the appointment of judges or deputy state attorney. For this reason, given that significant changes are introduced into our judicial system in the process of appointing judges, i.e. deputy state lawyers based on objective and transparent criteria in order to ensure greater professionalism in the conduct of judicial, i.e. state-law duties, as well as to enable the acquisition of as high-quality expertise as possible, I support the draft law on the Judicial Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40641	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40642	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, in the first reading, we have before us a draft law on the judicial academy establishing the Judicial Academy as an institution in which, as in Article 2 of this Law, the bill states, the initial education and training of candidates for independent, responsible, independent and impartial conduct of judicial duty, the professional education of trainees and judicial advisers, and the continued training of judicial officials. Like all member states, Croatia has been in line with Council of Europe's recommendations since 13 October '94. the year due to candidates before their appointment, shall provide adequate education for the conduct of a particular judicial duty. A strategic study adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in December of last year with the obligation to establish uniform and objective criteria for entry into the judicial and state-law profession. The establishment of the State School for Judicial Officials is also foreseen. Also, this law proposes the separation of the current Justice Academy from the Ministry of Justice and its establishment as an independent institution, and within the Judicial Academy as a special establishment unit, the State School for Judicial Officials will be established in which initial training and training of candidates for judicial officials will be organised and implemented. This law prescribes, therefore, that the founder of the Academy is the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and duties of the founders are carried out by the Ministry of Justice. Its structure, management bodies, as already stated by the Administrative Council, the Director and the Programme Council, shall be arranged. I think this kind of control structure is well defined. It is also a precise and clear composition, the way of choice, the way of decision making, and the jurisdiction of individual bodies, which is the basis for successful management of the academy with quality staff. It is also essential to enable candidates to acquire knowledge and skills for independent, responsible, professional, independent and impartial behaviour of judicial duties. Of course, it is also important, for the transparency of the entire process of admission to the state school, to elaborate on objective criteria and procedures for selecting candidates so that they are the best and most qualitative after successfully passed final exams are appointed to judicial duties, i.e. the duties of judges or deputy state attorneys. This bill offers certain solutions here, but, of course, through the discussion until the second reading, there are opportunities to make further improvements, and in the debate so far, we have also had a series of suggestions and suggestions that I am convinced will be appreciated. In order to establish the Judicial Academy, of course, it will be necessary in the Republic of Croatia's budget to provide for significant resources. For next year, it is just over 30 million kuna that will be needed in 2011. So, since this is about a law that will certainly contribute to greater professionalism in the conduct of a judicial, i.e. a state-of-law duty, I will certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40643	Thank you. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40644	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. So I will, in principle, also say that this law absolutely needs to be supported because, indeed, in terms of its solutions, it is on the trail of best European practice or best practice of the European Union countries when it comes to resolving these problems that the legislative proposal itself wants to resolve, and in the first place, it is about professional training of judicial officials, regardless of whether these judicial duties are functioning, i.e. they are doing their job within the judiciary, this segment, the judiciary or the state's attorney's office. As for the specific provisions of the law or the judicial academy, it is certainly necessary to say that it is not a new concept or a new institute in our system. We've already had the Judicial Academy, we've had, we've had it so far, but this bill sets itself up in a new way, and I'd dare to say a really better way of making it a basic prerequisite for it to function in its fullness. Namely, it is based on this law, based on this regulation as an independent institution. It enrolls in the court register, acquires the property of legal personality. So, not like it's been a solution so far. She insisted within the justice ministry as a institute. Therefore, further assumptions are being made, given that it is registered as an institution, that it functions in this sense through its bodies which are also established by law, and there are principally and principally, and administrative councils and programming councils, and we have heard a lot about it in today's debates. And I really support those legal solutions. And I'm going to say something else, which is that the way of appointment, composition and jurisdiction of all these bodies within the Judicial Academy as provided for by this law is actually one guarantee or one additional guarantee that the Judicial Academy will be able to respond to its task and, in fact, to the purpose for which it is even being set up. And when we talk about these problems, so what is the basic activity, which is the task, which is what we all want together, which is what we support to get through this institute, so from this judicial academy definitely and in the most qualitative way to live with us in the judicial system. Well, that's those three basic goals and I'll repeat them. We have even a few of them in the draft law only, and the first of them is that the academy is conducting initial education, I repeat initial education and training of candidates for independent, responsible, independent and impartial conduct of judicial duty. The second or second objective or other activity or what the Judicial Academy will deal with in its existence is therefore the vocational education of court practitioners and court advisers, therefore colleagues who are already in the system and are doing their jobs in the status of judicial practitioners or judicial advisers. But not only that or not less important, this third component in terms of activity, the element of the activity of the Judicial Academy, which absolutely needs to be additionally apostrophyd at this time, which is the constant improvement of judicial officials. So continuously throughout the entire working life, that is why the Judicial Academy will be the institution that will allow it to be continuously, permanent, professionally perfected by judicial officials. On the other hand, a key part of the law by me, and some colleagues have already mentioned it, is in that part of the law when we talk about a state school for judicial officials. It's really one, really quality newspaper and it's actually, this state school is going to be part of a judicial academy that's being set up as such as a judicial academy. It is therefore an institution that will, through the implementation of a professional education programme on all of these elements or will actually be a key place where all judicial officials or those who are just going to become judicial officials in the full sense of that word will act responsiblely either in the judiciary, so they will be judges or state lawyers. It's final. This law absolutely needs to be supported, it really represents one, a quality shift, a quality novelty, and it's actually one of the key features because we often talk about judicial reform, we've been witnesses, we've been involved in the adoption of a whole series of laws that we put under the idea of judicial reform, this is a key place. In my opinion or one of the key places because all these laws are undoubtedly important, all their solutions are going towards improvement, or lead to these positive processes in judicial reform happening. This is one key place, because indeed, and with this I will conclude, there is no independent trial, there is no independent judiciary, there is no independence in any sense in the system of the functioning of the judiciary if we do not have well-educated, quality, moral, really professional people who will actually implement all this together, and that is the only thing that is the only thing that will often be mentioned, and we rightly mention it, and independence in the full sense of that word and function. And that's why my full support of this law, with what we've already had the opportunity to hear. In the first reading, perhaps in some legal terms, the law until the second reading will undoubtedly be in that segment and even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40645	Thank you. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40646	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Not only have you put yourself at risk of reaching a consensus on this law, but you get commendation and I also think this proposal deserves praise. I am pleased that the law also prescribes professional training, especially for responsible state officials, and it seems to me that it should be supported in any case. I will concentrate on only one aspect, therefore institutionally organisational, so please consider that possibility for a second reading. On the one hand, it is about something called the Academy and something that is, by its name, alluding to higher education. It's one thing to say so to a postgraduate specialist, but also to a specialist study. It is one very, very narrow segment in which people who run for certain positions should perform and be determined, so to absorb certain knowledge, and possibly acquire the right skills. So it's about high-end specialist education. It's about what you said, Mr. Minister, under point 3 of life long learning, lifelong learning, I wouldn't say education, I'd say lifelong learning so if we wanted to understand each other well, I'd plead for our exact expression. And I ask you, therefore, not to be understood, and perhaps that the law prescribes that once-absorbed legal, or judicial, as we will call it, the Judicial Academy does not mean that one who has absorbed never has to learn anything again, but also that this institution brings itself, except for this key, key job, also carries the obligation of lifelong learning, so organising additional courses that may take two weeks, sometimes two months, sometimes, so as necessary. So I'd also like to get it into the law. Then, as it comes to lifelong learning, I would like that institution to have an obligation to have a program that will be accredited, i.e. to receive a pass. This permit can be two-sided from both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education, i.e. that the qualification obtained through the absorption of the academy is not only internal administrative, but that this qualification is also public at the same time, i.e. has a public recognition. I like the academy to be an independent legal person. I'd like it even more if she were like a virtual institution, because the vast majority of lecturers aren't actually going to be constantly employed at the academy. The vast majority of lecturers will come from universities or universities, different universities. Mr. Minister, wouldn't it be optimal in that case if it were an academic programme based on lifelong learning for the specific needs of the judiciary? In order for us to get another dimension of another quality in this schooling, I simply ask you to consider this proposal. We have had a very similar situation with the Military Academy and we have solved it as something that is based on the University, this Academy does not have to as a separate legal person, it cannot but also does not have to be an aphid component of the University but can be an independent high school with appropriate capacities, so with something that will give a qualification that will have a public recognition that will simply be called a postgraduate, specialist study and that is the case. My little contribution or suggestion, so I ask you to consider it until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40647	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40648	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government. By joining other colleagues and colleagues who supported the obvious good intentions to improve the situation of the judiciary itself through the Judicial Academy, I would like only to show some practical things through a few sentences. In fact, I also agree with those who insist that lifelong education is, that is, the situation that we have, which is that daily changes and legal gains, requirements etc., requires not only those who will be judges in the future, not only those who will be judicial officials and what this law regulates for the future, but we are missing the part of the story, the visible problem with the present one, means the people who have led, who have created and participated in this part of the judicial process. For them, a situation where absolutely, at the time, the criteria on which the European Union insists did not exist, in which it actually happened that in many cases we have actually received people who have an honorable name of judge but are not actually able to do such a thing. What's really necessary is that, I'll call it some kind of license, fix that condition, introduce that obligation that in the same way, through regular evaluation we actually ensure that someone after completing this kind of education, once they've been trained to be real, I'll call it what a real judge will be able to do in the future. That's one thing. And secondly, about the practical thing, I was offered when Mr. Minister talked about the situation of future generations that only by the fact that they're completing a judicial academy get a career opportunity or insurance to become judges, it's my question whether a real analysis was made in that part because I'm not sure how many natural outflows on the one hand and obligations on the other hand, which, by law and enrollment in the Judicial Academy, would be done by ending it, if we had insurance all those places for all those who would go inside. This means, of course, that this Judicial Academy is becoming a major reception filter for all judicial functions, and that its importance is not only about the approval of the programme and everything that is going to happen but it is in some way an entrance that whoever entered there who successfully completed it has a secure workplace. Fortunately, if Croatia had not shown, unfortunately, that it has so far been able to calculate what is waiting for them or what are the places we will need, I would have wanted to warn that part. Once again, I welcome every effort to improve the quality and education of these places, but also let us not forget those who are in these places at this moment, I am sure that without offense to them, we need regular evaluation and a situation where we do not need to be afraid of written tests or written evaluations and that this is what we need. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40649	Thank you. Replica Mr Dragan Kovacevic:
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40650	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Namely, I'd like to replicate my colleagues in this particular section where he spoke of it with a continuous, permanent education of all those involved in judicial affairs, both judicial and state's attorneys. In fact, we had situations there from the end of the 90th of 2000 examples of trials precisely in those cases that were related to, let's say "tycoons" or people who participated in privatisation jobs etc., where it proved that through those articulations and through the trial itself as if these entire teams were not up to all those opportunities that it opened, I would say the market economy. So, as we didn't at one point have enough quality managers who had experience operating in a new system, in a new regulation of the market economy, the same thing when these things came to court or when they were supposed to be processed then there was a lack of that practical knowledge. And that is why it is certainly to welcome this Law, which someone would have said should be a teacher scientist and should rely more on that part, but I think there should be a lot of practitioners there, so people who have been through these processes and who should help all those who work in practice to get to know them right now with all these specificities and all these possibilities, all of these problems that occur especially in the processing of certain bodies. Otherwise, I certainly welcome the introduction of this criterion of objectivity in the selection of certain state attorneys and judicial duties, so that it be a system of points and that everything is transparent because first of all, in this segment of this pillar of government we must have exactly that criterion of excellence, which I think the Academy can very much contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40651	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40652	Well, there are rare occasions when we are so relatively easy to agree on the provisions and intentions of passing a certain law. Here I wanted to point out that the problem...... of all those situations that the colleague mentioned in the processes themselves is a problem that will not be solved by the Judicial Academy will be resolved through the insurance of the funds to pay the experts of the witches that is what the state's attorneys and everyone else are constantly telling us and that's the job of a professional who can handle it, so that I wouldn't mix pears and apples, I think at this point is much more important education of judges to know who they're going to ask and she should have enough money to pay those people who are able to deal with those who took serious money. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40653	Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40654	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Mrs. Pusic presented before the HNS club the position of us who have discussed this bill together these days and gave an assessment of all of us, but I considered it necessary as a high school man to say a few words, first of all a clear commendation. We're all happy with this proposal. The need for such an academy really exists in Croatia. The only thing you might have to regret and tell our citizens is that we're always somewhere near the end of the tail. Namely, what I mean by that. Let's just see when the Council of Europe's recommendation is to move in this direction. It was a long time ago in '94. A year ago, 15 years ago. We know what's been going on in the judiciary over the past 15 years, but here's the honor of the minister and his associates that you're about to go there. The people say, "Better than never." I think they're very well-conceived namely your thoughts related to the work of three departments, which I think is a full hit. That it is necessary to try to be objective, that it should only be based on quality criteria, quality, enable people to progress in the profession, it is unequivocally and it should not only be applied in the judiciary but also in any other profession, and that is why I absolutely support it. And this bill is certainly a turning point, a big turn to go from party, gender and any other influence on the judiciary in a completely different direction. Clearly so far, the academy has been like an office at the Department of Justice. Its separation must be an important step to be an independent, independent institution. The thoughts of my colleague Fleg regarding the positioning of the Pro futura Academy itself in the higher education system in Croatia, I think it is worth considering his proposals, that I am not repeating it now. Although I believe that this proposal holds absolutely water, and I have no objections here. I think that the Administrative Council, the Programme Council and the lecturers as you have imagined should certainly go and see in function of time if there is possibly something to fix and someone else involved that clearly has one modern, modern approach to all current problems within the profession that we want to improve here. Now that I might have a little trouble? It bothers me, say, to join this academy. The judicial exam brings a lot of points, those who have passed the judicial before the law on trainees was passed, and so, they take the oral ones, then the psychological test, after that conversation. A conversation in my opinion brings a lot of points and represents one moment that we can always, in which we can doubt. It's always been like that. I, as a teacher 23 years ago, completely escaped from oral exams, applied so many years ago exclusively written exams with 120 to 150 questions "multichoice questions" and never had any objection ever since. There's been an attempt at intervention, I have to admit. And what would I do? A fellow doctor intervenes, "You know tomorrow my cousin and I are on the exam." I'd call him, "Come in half an hour, please, before the exam, and we'll make a deal." A man would come expecting who knows what. I'd show him, "Look here in the closet are the tests we've prepared, out of these 10 tests choose to choose for your cousin the test you want him to take." He takes the test, "at 2:00 a.m., come a colleague and we'll fix the test together, and you'll see how your dear cousin handled it." Never after that do these individuals show up again. This test is later deposited in the archives, kept for years, always any objection you can make in the archives, take out the test, see how much that one and that one has solved. So I'm in favour of always being as many written exams as possible, that's some standard, and let's try to run away from any oral conversation in function of time. Especially here is going to the knowledge assessment as well as to the final exam. Be careful, in the final exam the proposal is yours that the final exam itself is passed for the final evaluation, I repeat, the final exam for the final evaluation brings a maximum of 50% points. By some worldly criteria if someone has solved more than 70% of the absolutely transient good score. He's not going to get 50% points, he's going to get 35 points. This means that the mentor or the judicial exam he passed long ago will be quite decisive to what I consider not to be good. In addition, when it comes to young candidates, young people, nowhere here, and it appears elsewhere, in other professions, it does not appear what this young man himself has achieved during his studies. That means the average of his grades. I think it's terribly important. Believe me, I do. I don't know how it's valorized in a judicial exam. I don't know how many legal exams cover areas... But I always believe that 4.5 years of intensive work by an ordinary student should be valorized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not all of them are aware of the judicial exam that goes through here until the final exam. Oh, please, if the academy is supposed to bring people new knowledge, and we're essentially making a final assessment based on 3 of which is the final exam, so this new acquired knowledge, very, very poorly valorized, believe me. Maximum 50%, I say he solves 70%, I repeat he only gets 35 points on his final score, and these other elements, his mentor and long-term legal exams, will decide whether or not to advance. That's not good. I think even a judicial exam, so even a mentor should be completely dropped here. If the academy, right, is aimed at new knowledge, then only with a written exam, the final written exam should be relevant to how much someone has mastered, how someone should progress or not know. The narrowest part of this law in my book is certainly the part that applies to lifelong education, the continuous education. Why? Because it says here that the academy will open a competition, that is, the academy brings a training programme every year, sends it to courts and lawyers. Then they report their wishes to whom they want to send in that year for the perfecting and finally the academy decides who they will receive for training, but it is not essentially about continuity. Here I'd like to see it standing every four years, every six years, every judge has to show up at the academy, at professional training, get so many points to get a passing grade or have to repeat the exam so he can continue to behave clearly that judicial role he has at this point. So that's the thinst part, the absolute part of this law, and I think that by the second reading there you might be able to significantly fix the thing and then you're absolutely getting the green signal light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40655	Thank you. Final review, Justice Minister Ivan Šimonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40656	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Appreciable MPs and MPs. I'm very grateful for the support you've given this bill and the useful suggestions. What I would just ask you, especially those who gave their thoughts, is that after we study the stenograms, if we have any further questions, we would turn to some debaters before the law enters the second reading. As for the preparation of the second reading, this law will be organised by a broader public debate in which we would like, as it has been given a consensus in the Parliament to get in the same way in the profession and not only the professional tops of the profession, but also its broad bases, given how rooted this change is. I would also suggest that this law appears in the context of other relevant laws in the second reading. Therefore, at the same time to enter the second reading of the Law on Courts, the Law on State Attorneys, the Law on the State Judicial Council, because there are many provisions which can be understood in this law, and in these other laws only through their systematic interpretation, taking into account this broader legislative package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40657	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. . Now we're going to vote on the laws and reports discussed so far. First, the draft law on the Judicial Academy, first reading, is proposed by the government. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The draft law on the Judicial Academy is being adopted. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law.". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find it unanimous with 98 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40660	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, allow me in a few sentences to present the Final Proposal for the Law on Payments. Let's go back a little bit to the past and actually say that because of the exceptional importance that Platni transport has in the economic and financial system as the backbone of the economy Platni prominence in the Republic of Croatia actually became the subject of legal regulation there in 1993. We at the Ministry of Finance say, it was the first step in transforming Platno prominence when it was reached by the Law on Payment Transport in the country, which was in fact a substitute for turning the Platno Transport of the Republic of Croatia into a modern payment system. The second step of this transformation was in 2001, when the current Law on Payment Transport was passed, which actually transferred the operations of the former Bank Payment Transport Office, which created the preconditions for the development of payment traffic in line with the modern standards of payment traffic in the world. And finally I would say this third step, which must be one step, and we could say a few up, this total transformation. On the one hand, the aim of this final proposal is to align it with the European Union Directive, i.e. the European Community 64 of 2007, but of course to regulate the legislative framework of payment traffic which will allow for several important things, and I would now count them. The number 1 is the establishment of modern and comprehensive rules applicable to all payment services, simply effective and secure enforcement of cross-border payments at the same level as the execution of domestic payments, the promotion of competition on the market by introducing new participants in order to increase efficiency and lower costs, the creation of necessary preconditions for payment service users in the Republic of Croatia, when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union and monetary union, can use the single euro area payment zone, the abbreviations in English SEPA "Single Euro Payments Area" in which legal and natural persons will be paid and received and paid in euro under the same basic conditions, with the same rights and obligations regardless of where they are located and whether cross-border or domestic payments are concerned. Since it is a very complex transformation of the system, we propose the entry into force of this law from 1 January 2011, due to the long process of getting acquainted with the new rules, but of course also adapting to the new system. It is also very important to say that this final draft of the law that we have maintained a number of good solutions from the existing payment system. In particular, it is necessary to count and, in fact, keep the provisions on which transaction accounts, current and giro accounts continue to run credit institutions, retain leading bank numbers and execute transactions between credit institutions, remain on shorter deadlines for national payment transactions in our currency, and, of course, we retain a Croatian large payment system and a national clinical system. From the extensive text and a series of newspapers that are in front of you, I would especially like to single out the next paper that the law introduces into our payment system in order to improve, i.e. in order to make a comprehensive improvement. This law combines kuna and foreign payment services, and tax-defining payment services and their providers. A particular emphasis is placed on the protection of consumer rights which are users of payment services. It will agree that even in a whole series of other laws in the area of the financial system, a good part of the emphasis was actually on protecting consumer rights. Of course, we also allow complaints to be filed against the Croatian People's Bank as well as the extrajudicial settlement of disputes by submitting proposals for peace. A new category of payment service providers, i.e. a payment service institution, is also introduced. These are legal persons who have received from the Croatian National Bank an authorisation to provide one or more payment services and have a share capital in classes 150, 400 000 to million kuna, of course depending on the types of payment services they can provide. In the area of payment system management, the question of payment system managers and licensing and supervision of payment systems shall be addressed to the competence of the Croatian National Bank. And finally allow me, and according to the debate that was conducted on the parent board and perhaps on some others, I would like to point out that there are also a number of issues that are regulated by the current Law on Payments in the country and are no longer the subject of this final bill. Among other things, this concerns the issue of forced payment in the form of executive solutions and account blocks, as well as the management and content of the single account register. Of course, this does not mean that these questions will not be addressed by other legal proposals, but rather by the fact. In accordance with a lot of harmonisation with the European acquis, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the final preparations of a special regulation to be regulated by these areas, which is the Law on forced collection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40661	Thank you. The Committee on Law, European Integration, Finance and the State Budget? The chairman of the board, Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40662	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 41st session held on 14 October 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Payments, with the final proposal of the Law as a home working body. In his opening statement, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and that the Republic of Croatia has committed to adopt this law in order to comply with negotiating Chapter 4 – Freedom of movement of capital with the acquis of the European Union. As the main reason for the drafting of this law, the transposition into the domestic legislation of the provisions of Directive 2007/64 EC on payment services to the internal market amending and supplementing the Directives so far and repealing Directive 97/5 of the EC. It is also pointed out that this law defines payment services and payment service providers, detailing the information the payment service provider is obliged to provide to the user and other rights and obligations relating to the provision and use of payment services. A new category of payment service providers is introduced into the payment system, and this is the institution for payment services. In addition, the law combines domestic payment and payment traffic with abroad and prescribes execution deadlines between payment service providers in national, cross-border, international payment transactions. The discussion on the Committee held that it is a very complex law that will make major changes in the entire financial and banking industry in Croatia and that it is of great importance that sublegal acts be qualityd because at least part of the potential problems are avoided. It is necessary that all sublegal acts be prepared in time and adopted as soon as possible after the law has entered into force. After the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, he decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Payments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40663	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic The club of HDZ representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40664	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's club proposes that the Law on Payments be adopted by an urgent procedure because it is well-organised by the legislative framework of payment traffic in the Republic of Croatia. The reason for our proposal is the fact that the unblocked negotiations with the European Union, unblocked individual chapters by the Republic of Slovenia, and on the other hand, the Republic of Croatia has taken over the obligation to bring its legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union and this law is the enforcement of this obligation in Chapter 4 – Freedom of movement of capital of the negotiating process. Directive 2007/64 of the European Parliament for the first time laid down single rules of payment for the whole of the European Union and Member States are obliged to bring their national economy in line with its provisions by 1 November 2009. We, as a very serious future member of the European Union, must also make all relevant legislative changes and adjustments to successfully complete the negotiating affairs and close all open chapters. The country's existing Law on payment turnover in 2001 regulated only payment turnover in the country and other foreign foreign currency business laws. In order to make the amendments and additions to existing laws very extensive, complicated and non-transparent, the proposal is based on a completely new law that is uniquely regulated by payment turnover in the country and abroad, or in the near future among the equal members of the European Union. At the same time, certain provisions of the applicable Foreign Exchange Act would be repealed. Already in Article 1 of this Act, which regulates what is the subject of the law, the obligation to inform payment service users of the conditions for the provision of services and payment services and the rights and obligations relating to the provision and provision of payment services is stressed. The information provided by payment service users shall pay particular attention to the fact that the whole of Chapter II is confirmed. the law intended for regulatory obligations to inform payment service users. So the whole set of provisions goes in the direction of consumer protection. In view of the fact that the draft law lays down the provisions of those Directives of the European Union, new terms, definitions and meaning have been added to the law so that there are no doubts and concerns about their essential meaning in the implementation of the law. This definition of concept was necessary because no terminology used in the legal regulation of the European Union has been used in our practice so far. This law introduces into our payment system new categories of payment service providers, which are based in the Republic of Croatia, as well as those established in a Member State of the European Union. This creates formal conditions for our payment system to be implemented in the European Union on the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Article 5 of the Law provides that payment service providers who are allowed to provide payment services and the prescribed payment service limits for certain categories of service providers are to be listed. The bill for the first time regulates the business of card companies and mobile operators in the area of payment through mobile devices in the Republic of Croatia, which we consider to be a positive step. Payment services institutions within the meaning of this Act shall use the funds they receive from their users exclusively for carrying out payment transactions and they shall by no means be deposited or other return funds. In the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, we are particularly pleased that the law correctly regulates the rights and obligations of both payment service providers and payment service users. There are clearly all things set up. Liability has been established for the non-fulfilment of the commitments undertaken by each payment participant, the deadlines in which certain transactions must be carried out as well as the damages incurred due to non-execution or irregular, timely and incorrect execution of the payment transaction. The law also provides for data protection of payment service users as well as a way to resolve complaints and disputes that may arise between payment participants. We believe that, in addition to the fact that the law really precisely regulated the conditions for the establishment and operation of payment institutions, special attention is paid to the Law on the Control of the work of these institutions by the Croatian National Bank. It is apparent that nothing is left to the case, so there is a way to exercise supervision, species and control procedures, supervisory measures and the consequences of non-execution of commitments. The paying institution is obliged to report to the Croatian National Bank on the implementation of the orderly control measures because if the enforcement of the measure is not controlled, then the adoption of these measures is not really effective either. We also believe that it is good that the Croatian National Bank is running a register of payment institutions that must be updated regularly and which is public and available on the websites. The last chapter of this law lays down sanctions, i.e. fines for infringements of legal provisions, and given their height, we do not think that the participants of payment traffic will be easily deafened to its provisions. In the end, we find it extremely important that the law goes according to an emergency procedure because it will take more regulations, sublegal acts, and that takes time. In addition, possible potential problems can be avoided in the implementation and use of and the meaning of new terminology through timely and comprehensive information and education of all payment agents. Because of everything mentioned as I have already said in the introduction at the Croatian Democratic Community club, we propose that this law be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40665	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40666	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow representatives, colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. At first, I will say that the SDP Representatives Club will support this law and we believe that any promotion in this area is useful and that we need to coordinate the things that await us by entering the European Union. As is known this is already such a third let's say change in the payment system. First we had a change from the system, so before the 1990s, when we changed SDK into ZAP. After that, we went from ZAP to credit institutions so that they could make payments to FINA and this is further liberalisation of the system. As has already been said, we are about to have another reform when we enter the European Union’s payment system. What is important to say regardless of what we of course support this law, but in Croatia is the problem that most often arises that with quality laws, along with institutions that should do our job we have many irregularities, many things that are not good. Here today is the freshest example of where it happened, I'd say one spill of money from the company, money laundering in the great state still under the state control of this company Podravci. Over 65 million as a reasonable doubt the kuna is over one other company poured over on Malta and for that money they wanted certain gentlemen who today and suspects bought shares of the same company. So, we have good laws, but some things are passing us by that maybe we shouldn't. We believe that the suspicious transactions that occur especially when it comes to passing money to foreign accounts, which was the case in Podravka. 65 million kunas are certain people from Podravka tried to transfer over Malta to buy the same company. Unfortunately, it was not prevented, and even if it appears that no investigation was carried out before the public pressure and before the affair broke through public information funds, there was no evidence of what this was about. So we have to use the laws to prevent, unfortunately, those things that shouldn't happen. What should be noted in this law is that there are many things in Croatia that are not specific, which are specific only for Croatia. So we're talking about blocking the account. We have companies that are long for months, years in a blockade because some with their accounts have blocked them through these institutions that do pay traffic, but they function most normally. They make their payments through compensations work in a way that is not normal anywhere in the world. And what is the problem of liquidity and insolvency in Croatia today is enough to say that in August of this month there has been record indifference in Croatia since 2000. It is about 23.24 billion kuna, which are naturally unsettled commitments burdened by the Croatian economy. It's about saying what the width of that problem is. It's 23,000 insolvent legal entities and another 34,000 craftsmen. It's about 65,000 employees in these companies and crafts who are not sure they'll get paid. It's like I said about 23 billion kuna. Unfortunately, a large share of insolvency and insolvency in that entire waste system in the country. About ten billion kunas when it comes to the state and the companies that are under its control. I wouldn't rule out even companies that have recently been privatised as INA, because the state still has a large stake in INA and a great possibility of control. I would not exclude even Podravka where the state through its funds and other institutions still has the largest share of shares. So these are companies that are still controlled by the state and, unfortunately, they participate in largely in indifference. Finally, of course, there are some other questions that need to be resolved, and it's a shame that the law is passed like that, I would say in an emergency procedure, and if we hadn't solved some issues that are certainly crucial. So, first I said the question of the blockade. How long can someone be in a blockade until bankruptcy is initiated, etc. Payout. We are witnessing that salaries are paid most often without contributions and certain fees being paid to the state, and thus the state has claims of around 9 billion kuna for taxes and contributions to this insolvency and indifference. So why is it allowed for workers to steal in this way, that companies do not pay when they pay salaries and contribute through banks, not to pay contributions to pension systems, but only to pay part of the commitment to the worker. These companies need to be disciplined and brought into order. It also needs to be done to see what payment priorities are, or order of payments. What are the priority obligations if the company is in such a situation that it has been blocked for some time now. And of course we have to define those situations when no payment order will be executed. I said that this is where we were supposed to react in this recorded crime that has been prosecuted today, it's about "Podravka", that we should have reacted through this country's institutions not to allow it before. That it is not possible for the state, that the company, the state-owned company "Podravka" under the government and under the greatest influence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to allow manipulation in this way and to allow the theft of 65 million kuna from its assets, or money from its account. No matter how he goes through one company, another company, third company, but this is not allowed, that is, to prevent future better control and enforcement of the laws that are in force. And that's why I say the SDP will support this law and vote for it to be applied, but we are asking that some of these things be better applied in the future and that ultimately, the crime that is happening, and we are witnessing it almost every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40667	Thank you. An individual debate. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40668	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here is as we have heard in the introduction this legislative proposal with the final draft of the law that we are today discussing both domestic payment turnover and foreign payment turnover, while at the same time presenting harmonisation in this part with the European property. To remind ourselves of the country's first Law on Payment Transport was passed in 1993 and it was a legal basis for transforming the payment turnover of the Republic of Croatia. By April 2002, payment traffic was carried out at the Department of Payments, so that since April 2002 payment traffic would migrate to business banks, and the financial agency as the legal successor of the Institute of Payments has actually become only... a payment traffic partner for banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The loss of the payment turnover of FINA, better said by the state as its owner, failed to find new jobs to compensate for the lack of income from payment traffic, which is why FINA has been making significant financial losses in recent years, and before its employees, and it is a very large number of employees, so over 4 and a half thousand workers, so they are facing a very uncertain future. Now that we are talking about the uncertain future of FINA employees, it would likely be possible to correct a certain correction of the status of FINA could be opened by the provisions of this Law on Payment Transport, which provides for the introduction into the payment system of a new category of payment service providers, so-called. the payment institution. Therefore, it is the commercial companies based in the Republic of Croatia that will be granted approval from the Croatian National Bank for the provision of one or more payment services and depending on the quantity and type of those services that the payment service institutions will perform and the level of their underlying capital ranging from 150 thousand to 1 million kuna. It is important here to say that payment accounts to be managed by payment institutions will be used exclusively for payment transactions, so they will not have the character of deposit accounts. When I mention it then I can't help but remind myself that the underlying compensation for payment traffic carried out at the Department of Payments was precisely that the then paying organisation separated the accounts from the deposit. The accounts of the participants in the payment traffic were held in ZAP, and the funds in those accounts in the bank's deposit qualified as unnatural, with the reason that such an organisation made it difficult for banks to manage their liquidity and prevented the monitoring of cash flows and the liquidity of their depositors themselves. Furthermore, banks were denied payment transactions which were considered exclusively banking business at the time. Here is the legal proposal that we see before us that transaction accounts are separate from deposits and that, with the banks, payment traffic can also be carried out by payment institutions, so other legal entities. It is therefore a solution that we in Croatia have long known, with us now admitting that this is a good solution because Europe says it is a good solution. The law on payment is an extremely important law because payment traffic is an extremely important function for every country and its economy, and therefore it is often said that payment traffic is actually the financial flow of every country. And money is a commodity and is subject to laws, as well as to any other commodity on the market, which is less valuable to it, so this is more valuable to it and therefore it is extremely important that we have an efficient payment turnover that will make more payments with a lower amount of money. The payment traffic as we know before the second transformation, so what was done by the end of 2000 was characterised by more than 500 thousand transactions daily processed in real time, an extremely high level of satisfaction and clients and an extremely positive assessment of domestic and foreign institutions. I would dare say the pay traffic we know from those times was a kind of Croatian brand. This is a very complicated matter and it is therefore not good that the law is passed by emergency procedure, regardless of its application is extended by 1 January 2011. This team is more than it represents further liberalisation of the provision of payment traffic in terms of the inclusion in national payment traffic of payment service providers from the Member States of the European Union. And we in Croatia have bad experience with the current stages of liberalisation of payment traffic. In Croatia, liberalisation often ends as anarchy. Since the current transformation of payment traffic has somehow been lost along the way, the colleague Maras has already spoken of it, or better to say, it is a completely minor obligation to control the payment of legal fees, so tax and income contributions. Well, now we have a situation where employers pay their salaries massively without paying those legal fees. Of course, victims are always workers who are either unpaid or unsecured health insurance or suffer small pensions as a result. Unfortunately, I would say, the Minister of Finance, who is led primarily by the principle of political clientism or prolonging or even exempting from paying the legal obligations of a particular company, has had dozens of companies that have not paid their commitments for years and have accumulated them in tens of millions of kunas. In this way, some radical measures that were to be launched, such as the launch of a bankruptcy procedure, were actually delayed, the agony of these companies to total financial exhaustion and the non-payment of legal obligations spread from such companies unfortunately to the entire Croatian economy. Furthermore, there is a problem of blocking the giro-accounts and leading the order of collection, then the problem of collecting and uniting insolvency data which I think is very important for the analysis of economic and financial flows in the country. There is no word in this bill on these matters. The truth according to the current instructions, the Minister of Finance of the Bank is obliged to supply insolvency data to the financial agency which then unites and distributes them, but these data are not complete and do not reflect the overall extent of insolvency which is actually an extremely large problem in Croatia. FINA provides itself with data on unpaid taxes and contributions, while data on outstanding mutual obligations between business partners do not exist at all, because business partners do not even provide banks with such orders if they have no cover for the execution of accounts for reasons not to block their account and thus question payouts or any other commitment that is more important to them. Therefore, the state has no insight into the extent of outstanding orders to pay each other's obligations, so it cannot take measures to address the problem of escalating indifference that literally blocks the Croatian economy. We can say in Croatia we do not have a payment system but a non-payment system. Therefore, this legislative proposal is in fact a rewritten directive, or more beautifully, full harmonisation with the European acquis and this legislative proposal, which is appropriate to the legally regulated states, does not, unfortunately, sufficiently respect Croatia's reality which dramatically deviates from European practice and therefore, its implementation of the Croatian National Bank will have to be closely monitored and brought about the necessary changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40669	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40670	Mr. Vice President, in a series of really incorrect data, I'm going to make it right, what Representatives Jelish said about the massive non-payment of contributions and taxes on salaries, it's really not true, ma'am. You can't say that you're mass not paying, it's really not true, you have to have evidence for such a single statement and in this way you indirectly invite entrepreneurs not to pay taxes and contributions. In addition, as regards forced collection, you were on the board when the government representative said that in the procedure of adopting a new law on forced collection, and I have here a request, i.e. the opinion of financial firms who say we positively assess the change in the legislation which separates the business of forced collection, which separates the business of forced payment from payment transactions, because forced payment transactions do not constitute the primary activity of payment service providers. Thus, financial institutions speak quite differently from what you said today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40671	Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that payment is one of the most important elements of both the financial and economic system as a whole. And this importance of payment traffic is constant with its importance particularly stressed at this time, in these times of economic crisis management, times of crisis control, times of crisis of business morality, times of crisis I would dare even show myself to economic science, especially the crisis of economic practice and the lack of a business culture. In particular, it is important to know the very definition of payment turnover which involves all payments between legal persons and natural persons for the purpose of settlement of cash debts or payment of cash claims. That's why the flow of money is one of the most important elements in the fight against crime and corruption, but it is also the most effective tool in this fight, because many things can hide a trail but never the money. It is therefore an extremely important and legal framework, a high quality legal framework that regulates the rules of conduct in the field of payment transport and, in particular, when it comes to uniform rules of conduct in the wider economic area in this case of the European Union. I would point out that so far the legislation has been quite high quality, starting with the former SDK which has provided domestic payment services, later the ZAP now FINA and when it is extended to banks. So we have a constant good legal framework that is still improving. I therefore support this Proposal for a Law on Payments because it applies the provisions of the European Community Directive, the payment services which are for the first time regulated in the European Union by payment services and for the first time adopt uniform rules of conduct for the entire European economic area. It is also good that it provides for entry into force on 1 January 2011 because there is plenty of time to bring in sublegal acts as well as to remove any observed deficiencies. This Proposal for a Law on Payments gives exceptional importance to the Croatian National Bank, and this is good in particular when it comes to the system of supervision, however, I should mention that in several places as a legal provision, it is envisaged that the Croatian National Bank can adopt or prescribe something, which is, for example, an article 7 of the Report on Payment Services gives discretion to the Croatian National Bank that it can prescribe bindings, content and deadlines for the execution of payment services, I think it would be more acceptable to say that the Croatian National Bank prescribes, not that it can prescribe, then it would have the power to impose a discretionary right, but I will not submit amendments but only one as an appeal in the future to take something like that into account. I would also point out Article 9 although the proposal for a legal solution is objective and is intended to make it clear that if the payment service provider charges the services referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and the fees must be eligible in accordance with the actual costs of payment service providers. I say the intensity is good, but given the knowledge that business banks in Croatia are first of all the most intelligent in the collection of their services across the European Union then here I am expressing one concern that there will also be imaginations and that they may try to use the position to collect which kuna and more than what these are real costs. I'm saying it's impossible to regulate things differently now, but I'm just warning about the ingenuity of different fees of species when it comes to the collection of business banks for their services. I had the opportunity to read the proposed amendment of the credit unions to include in the payment institutions and the credit union in Article 5(1), point 1 and I made little effort to think about it and I must say that this amendment is not acceptable and for several reasons. The credit union law provides that credit unions do not carry out payment traffic, so the Credit Union Act itself already makes it impossible to provide such services. It is also enough to stress that the credit union is a member union. It serves about as a case of mutual assistance, which is why they are not subject to the provisions of the National Bank relating to credit institutions under the Credit Institutions Act, do not have a reserve obligation, do not have a liquidity obligation, do not have a reservation obligation, do not have a obligation to maintain capital adequateness and therefore, with the possible acceptance of such an amendment, we would get a hybrid holding deposits, payment turnover, which is, in fact, strictly prohibited by the other payment institutions and cannot do so. And in the end, I would just like to point out that all these problems that are being raised in connection with the indifference in the Croatian economy, we heard from the Secretary of State Dr. Marić said he was preparing a proposal for a law on forced collection, so here is, in addition to supporting this proposal of the Law on Payments, I also support the proposal to draft this law and I look forward to it as soon as possible and to take effect as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40673	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40674	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So here at the beginning I have to say that the problem of payment is like the heart of the financial system, meaning the flow of the financial system, the problem with which history, and more and more recently, the European Union, with its regulations, directives, laws, tries to sort of calculate, or lower the costs of business, the transaction costs resulting from payment. I must say one thing that transaction costs at the level of the European Union’s gross social product are related to payment services at all costs, comparable in percentages. This is a huge cost for the European Union, and therefore all directives in this direction in the financial sector are going to make these operating costs as low as possible, i.e. making payment operations as flexible as possible. And therefore, this bill is also in some way what this should look like in the theory and preparation of Croatia for the European Union with more than 160 articles, with one complex, in one complex matter, and all in the wake of the fact that it is simple and effective to make payments as well as eventually that one day when we enter the euro area to be ready. However, the law is a theory in Croatia, and practice will show something quite different. For us, first of all, the adoption of this law will not be less operating costs but rather costs, so it will probably be costs, so due to the adjustment to these laws, to the end-users and business costs will be higher, the institutions themselves that carry out payment traffic. The law is complex, it contains a lot of rules that need to be passed as soon as possible and according to the way that is generally passed and all the laws in adaptation with the European Union we are aware that this law will probably have to experience some changes over some reasonable time. So that's what I would even dare say that this is what practice has become of this House, meaning that the laws are not long after they are passed they have to succumb to certain changes. What I am afraid of, and that will happen especially in the first part of the application of this law, is that the costs of business will be poured over to the citizens, poured over to the end-user in such a difficult economic situation, to the legal persons, to the entities that carry out their claims and obligations, and in some ways this will further have an additional effect for the Croatian economy in cost terms. Payment traffic is also in some way an opportunity to mention more and more frequent indifference and increasing liquidity in the Croatian financial sector which has become, unfortunately, record-breaking. I'll just give you one piece of information. Compared to last year, all outstanding liabilities are 50% higher. That's a huge number. This is, on the one hand, we want to compare ourselves with the European Union, adopt laws and standards, and on the other hand do not implement decisions in practice that the European Union implements. Thus, the European Union has reduced payment deadlines among its members to 30 days under the directive, while these payment deadlines have been coming to us for up to a year. The main inequitability generators are with the state and irresponsible individuals, irresponsible companies that act that way and whose number has increased in the last year, and this has increased by, for example, a number. non-insolvent legal persons increased by 31%. So the total outstanding liabilities increased by 50%. What's important is to say more in that insolvency, so in the case of insolvency legal entities, the insolvency companies have increased by 50%. So year after year, more and more people work in insolvency companies. That puts jobs at risk, and that's why in the last year, 48 thousand people were out of work. And next year he'll stay, unless something important changes. And the way it works, especially the way indifference is generated, is definitely not going in that direction. I'll add craftsmen to that. In the case of legal obligations, the liabilities of 18.6 billion kuna are outstanding. In the craftsman, the unsettled liabilities amount to a total of 4.66 billion kuna. If we add 9.2 billion kunas to that, which simply didn't pay through contributions in the country, we get more than 30 billion kunas blocked in the blockade. Converted by projection to gross social product, we have a situation that 10% of our gross social product is blocked, frozen. With it we can't do anything and that's one of the reasons why we had a drop of minus 7% in the past year and why the most optimistic forecasts this year give us that we will achieve economic growth based on zero, i.e. that Croatia will stagnate in the following year. 10% of our gross social product has been blocked due to indivisibility. And because of the necessity of the legislators of all the government's competent authorities to regulate this area. And that's something we keep warning about, but it keeps falling behind. This law, the Law on Payments as a law harmonising payment traffic with the acquis of the European Union, is what it should look like in theory. It will increase business costs in a short time. However, in Croatian practice there is something quite different. We take laws from the European Union, copy them into our own legislation, but also good practice of the guidelines that the European Union implements, payment deadlines, economic growth generators do not implement. In theory, we prescribe laws in practice not implementing what the European Union is adopting. Neither the European Union nor the United States of America, which in some ways plotted and fast-tracked the way out of recession. And that's why next year we're going to face even more serious problems than we've ever faced in this one. And that's why next year's growth is going to be at various zeros, and the indifference that's galloping, I have to say, and once again I'm going to repeat, it's frozen, it's blocked 10% of our social product. We can't grow up if our 10% of our social product is blocked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40675	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Zdravko Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40676	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, let me just thank everyone who participated in the debate. I have to admit, I'm glad to hear from both clubs and agents that they support this payment bill. What we said and what I said in the opening statement, so one kind of upgrade and certainly at least one, or two steps up in the functioning of the entire system. In the course of the debate, you have also touched on certain issues that are not actually regulated and not regulated by this law, and are not envisaged, but still need to be dealt with by laws such as bankruptcy, general tax law and so on. However, the valuable comments you mentioned, we will consider. Also, what the honourable representative Maric said about this proposal for credit unions, there is a law that regulates it. In this law we all agreed on which is quite complex, there were many people, services and government and the Croatian National Bank and other experts, that they created more work, more work standing before them in terms of sublegal acts. However, the same way that you recognized well that there is a big job ahead of practice and implementation of this law. That is why we have put into effect from 1 January 2011. Here, thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40677	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Secondly, the final proposal for a bill on payment, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 443, the promoter is the Government. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Payments. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? I find that, with 96 votes for and 1 abstention, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. Here, let me say a few words concerning the award of this concession, namely the decision that you will make in this Parliament. What I want to point out in particular at the beginning, means the concession is requested at the request of Croatia's electricity industry and what is most important of all, so it is the first concession to be awarded in the Republic of Croatia. What I want to add in particular means why you're making the decision to award this concession. The reason is that its capacity or power is 42.29 megawatts and according to the Water Act such a decision is made by this respected House. I would also like to say that HEP submitted a request to the resolution ministry on 24 June 2008. That request wasn't complete at first. We've been looking for additional documentation as a resolute ministry. Once that documentation has been obtained, I would like to point out in particular that we have requested that the land under accumulation has a public water supply status. So no one can come into his possession later. After we received all the necessary documentation, the Government reached a conclusion on the initiation of the award procedure of this concession and this concession is here today before you. What's important here is that all the documentation necessary for the award of this concession means that it is now made in accordance with our regulations and we can say that all the legal conditions for the award of this concession are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40681	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm calling the clubs that signed up for a debate so we can move in line. It's the first club of the SDP. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40682	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate on the proposal for a concession for the use of water power for the production of electricity to the Croatian Electricity Company d.d. I would like to say at the Lesce Hydropower Plant on the River Dobri, that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will not vote for this decision. Why won't we support this decision? Because this decision is also just a continuation of the absurd farce related to the overall implementation of the Hydropower Plant Lesce project. It is a shame that the Croatian Parliament in this way ironed the Clamperaj both HEP and the competent ministries and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so instead of making the first decision on the award of the concession, then we are only then moving towards the realization of the project or the construction of the hydropower plant we are doing everything in reverse order. The SDP club cannot and will not support this kind of play and fake procedure because of this extremely poor precedent of MPs and MPs, and parliament as a whole turns into mere puppets, dolls at the end that raise their hands at the blink of the directors incompetent and sloppy executive authorities. What does that mean? This means that we who are the legislative authority of this country are not able or we do not want to comply with the laws that we are making ourselves, which means that we are telling all citizens and citizens "The laws apply to some but not to everyone.". This means that some in Croatia are above the law and do not have to respect them, they do not have to, because there is always a Parliament that will, by laws, decisions or other documents, amend, legalize or legalise someone's non-compliance with legal procedures. This decision is as I have already mentioned only the continuation of extremely poor practices and the conduct of competent institutions in the event of the realisation of the Hydropower plant Lesce project. I remind myself of the realisation of the Hydropower Plant Lešče project, which caused the disappearance of a number of rare and protected species from the area, and the question arises whether this threat brought about a serious issue of species such as fish of young people and lights, long-legged bats, endemic ducks and many other cave species in general in Croatia. Good was the habitat of the human fish's endemic and the oculinic cave sponge's only underground freshwater sponge in the world. One of the last nests of young fish in Europe was well. Why was that? Because the realisation of the Lesje Hydropower Plant has led to extreme changes in water temperature and water levels that have endangered the living world in the river. Despite numerous warnings from environmental organisations, however, the Ministry of Protection and the environment has decided to approve the implementation of this project based on a long-term and today-indicated environmental impact study of 1986. Why not today? Because in 1986, when the study was created, the conditions and standards of nature and the environment were much lower, because the Republic of Croatia, meanwhile, ratified a whole series of extremely important and significant conventions, including the Bern Convention, the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of European Wildlife and Habitats. The Republic of Croatia ratified this Convention in 2000 and is therefore obliged to implement measures to protect habitats of plants and animals protected by this document by giving the green light for the realisation of the Hydropower plant Lesce project on the basis of an outdated environmental impact study from 1986. In addition to these obvious illogicalities in order to implement the project, which in serious doubt leads to the legal basis of this project itself, it should be stressed that Hydropower plant Lesce is highly questionable economic viability and since the total electricity production from that hydropower plant is less than 1% of the total electricity needs in the Republic of Croatia and the damage to the environment and nature is irreparable and long-term. The SDP club would like to stress that HEP could save significantly more electricity per year by implementing energy efficiency measures than in a year's production in the Lešče Hydropower plant, so we are justifiably asking who was in the interest of creating this hydropower plant, which was irrevocably devastated by the extremely valuable landscape of the Dobra Canyon, threatened by many rare plant and animal species, with the shamefully green light of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which should protect the environment and natural resources of Croatia. And to sum up in the end, except that the construction of the Hydropower Plant Lesce has violated the Bern Convention, except that the realisation of this project destroyed the landscape, environment and nature of the canyons of Good, except that it spent 65m euros on the realisation of this project according to some information, although significantly lower investments in energy efficiency could save more electricity than the one produced in the Hydropower Plant Lesce, although HEP could have invested better and more sustainablely in small hydropower plants that enter the renewable energy quota than the Hydropower plant Lesce and although the local population did not agree with the construction of the power plant because the construction of the hydropower plant has disabled further development of tourism rafting in that area, despite all this, Croatia has won the Hydropower plant Lesce and will now receive this shameful decision to grant a concession for the use of water power supply to the company. Zagreb's Hydropower Plant Lesce, on the River Good, whose vote by the Croatian Parliament, will at least confirm that it is nothing but a mere puppet in the hands of unfortunately tragically incompetent and sloppy executive authorities. Because of everything previously said, the SDP club will not vote for this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40683	Thank you very much. Next up is the Club of HNS Representatives and Honored Representative Zlatko Koračević. He's not here. We're moving on to the next club representative. Mr. Antun Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40684	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a decision on the award of a concession for the use of water power for the production of electricity to the company Hrvatska elektroprivreda d.d. Zagreb at the Lešče hydropower plant on the River Dobri I would start a little different than my predecessor, because these days we listened to a debate about our country's strategy and needs where we lack 50% energy and energy. So there's a slightly different approach, so it's about this topic. In accordance with Article 145(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: The Water Act, "The People's News" No. 107/95 and 150/05 The Government of the Republic of Croatia submits a proposal for a concession decision for the use of water power for the production of electricity to the Croatian Electroprivreda d.d. Zagreb at the Lesce hydropower plant on the River Dobri. Croatia's electricity company submitted on 24 June 2008. The Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy as a competent body for the award of concessions for the use of water power for the production of electricity at the Lesce hydropower plant on the River Good Strength forty-two twenty-nine megawatts. The Water Act stipulates that a concession is needed to catch water for the use of water power and for the production of electricity. The government delivered this material to the Parliament. The decision to award a concession for the power generation plant of 20 megawatts and is made by the Croatian Parliament. The government has launched a procedure for awarding the water power concession. Opinions were also given by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Ministry of Finance, State Attorney's Office, Government, or the Office of Law. Croatian waters have carried out professional activities related to the possibility of awarding the concessions in question, have developed water legal conditions for the award of concessions which will become an integral part of the future concession contract. I propose that the Croatian Parliament make a positive decision on the award of the concession and the Ministry of Water Economy on behalf of the Republic of Croatia and the beneficiary of the concession in this case the HEP conclude a concession contract. The Lešče hydropower plant was built on the river Dobra near Lešče spa, and parts of its buildings extend to the municipality of Bosiljevo, the General Table and the town of Ogulina. It is the first hydrocenter to be built in independent Croatia. The hydropower plant was built on Gojačka Dobri in part of the steep flow from Gojačka to the village of Gorinci, which was among the rafting fans at a high price. However, the Gojak hydropower plant was built in 1959, so long ago. The environmental group remarks we have heard now were also related to rafting, and this rafting depended on the amount of water released from the Gojak hydropower plant. An idea project was built in 1985, and hydrological research was carried out by the Geological Institute in Zagreb. The technical data relevant for the reference should be highlighted as follows: that Lesce hydropower plant will have an installed power of 42.29 megawatts and the intended useful time is 2500 hours per year. The accumulation lake will have a length of 12 km and a surface of 146 ha. Construction started in 2006. The idea that this was a complex and complicated site stems from the idea of what hydrothermia was done 20 years ago, as was hydrocentric by Djala and hydrocentric Čakovec. So 20 years earlier, and that's what made it look like. Finally, it should be said that we are pleased that the first hydrocenter was built in independent Croatia, and the observation that it was a small production hydrocenter was the slogan of opponents from the lines of "green" and that it was good, too good for so little electricity. The claim does not stand, as Lesce is somewhat weaker in installed strength than the Gojak hydropower plant, and similar with the Djala hydropower plant. It is predicted to be involved in the work when electricity is most needed and expensive. But the lake can be used to develop tourism, fishing, swimming. Lately, claims have been made that major hydrotechnical procedures and significant changes in space have greatly affected the microclimate and sensitive plant and animal balance. There is always a question of sustainable development and energy, of course without which there is no development, which we need for further development. However, energy is derived from the hydropotentials of our rivers that are most environmentally acceptable to the environment and least harmful. There is still something to be sacrificed for development. And as we have listened to the discussion of the needs of the past days, so from this area of hydroenergy, so our program is that it was carried out by 2020. So 300 megawatts. We think that the hydro potential of our country is therefore quite small and among these 300 megawatts is this now built hydrocenter. Therefore, if we observe and yesterday I was at a presentation where the so-called product is produced. Green energy and what my colleague mentioned to those mini-centrals. So, which products I don't know of 200 to 1 megawatts, we consider, however, if we look from this level of view that this hydrocenter is very welcome to us at this time, and that is why I suggest, therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club, support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40685	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40686	So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that every curve is, in fact, a water-powered form of energy. I'd like to remind you that only things are small hydropower plants that enter the quota of renewable energy sources. For what? Because the large hydro power plants that are listed in this hydro power plant, whose decision we are actually discussing today, is a large hydro power plant and its construction has been irrevocably devastated by a very large space, i.e. landscape, and therefore the energy generated from this hydropower plant cannot be considered as pure energy in principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40687	Thank you very much. And the last registered Club of Representatives, the HSS Club, is a respected representative, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40688	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. So I have to say that here's every country seeking its energy independence because without it there's no real sovereignty of the state. It is therefore logical to plan closely how we will achieve that goal. It seems that in the case of the Lesje hydropower plant, the procedure itself in space and the environment was not properly considered from the point of view of profit and damage, so now that the hydropower plant is already made there is nothing left but to support this decision on the award of concession for the use of water power, the production of electricity to the company Hrvatska elektroprivreda d.d. Zagreb at the Lesce hydropower plant on the River Dobri. However, I think that we must all learn from this example, and therefore the HSS Representatives' Club proposes that the legislative regulations be amended and that the future decision on the award of the concession should be pre-conditioned so that the energy facility can be built at all. In fact, in the new Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia adopted last week by the Croatian Parliament, hydroenergy is considered a renewable energy source. Thanks to its natural potential, the Republic of Croatia is setting the goal of keeping the share of electricity production from renewable energy sources, including large hydropower plants, which I must say that we do not consider in HSS renewable energy sources, in total electricity consumption by 2020 at 35%. It is estimated that the top load in the Croatian electricity system in 2020 will be around 4600 megawatts so that according to the above scenario and hydropower plant Lesce will participate with 1% of the needs, and this fact speaks for itself about the justification of the construction of the said facility. Therefore, the Lesce hydropower plant is not so important for the overall energy picture of Croatia, but in the view of energyists, it is important for the overall management of the system, because in peak situations when changes occur in the supply system can rapidly and efficiently change power and produce electricity in the variable part of daily consumption. In addition, the Lesce hydropower plant represents the second energy step in exploiting the water potential of the Dobra River, following the Gojak hydropower plant and the accumulation of Bukovic. As regards the economic moment at which we are located, it should be pointed out that the project, construction and equipment of the facility participated according to our knowledge exclusively of Croatian companies, with experience in designing and building hydroenergy plants, and the value of the investment was 443 million kuna. Also from a financial point of view, the entire project for part of Karlovac County has also brought some positive moments, as local roads, waterway and low voltage networks are restored, which is important for the remaining local population in the rural area, of course, with the promise of exploitation of accumulation by HEP, while we are urging us from the HSS to consult biologist experts. It is projected that HEP will pay 600 to 700 thousand kuna annually to local communities for an electricity-based rent that we hope to know, to be additionally engrossed and spent on projects for the benefit of the local population. Finally, the state budget will be richer at the beginning of the year for a one-time concession fee of 4.6 million kuna, which at the time of the general recession is not to be ignored. However, we must point out that this project is not in line with the guidelines of the local tourism development programme in Karlovac County, which has partly recognised the canyon of the Good River as an extraordinary tourist potential, so we can say that the right and the right of NGOs and the local population have warned that it is important to avoid whether this project brings more damage or benefits. In 1986, an environmental impact study was carried out, and since then it has been the construction of the Lesce hydropower plant. Our decision-making during these 20 years, including the final decision on the award of the concession, which we are still discussing here in the Croatian Assembly today, with all objections, and much of the objection has been justified, has finally been carried out in accordance with the regulations. This, however, leads us to a number of new issues. Why is the award procedure for the use of water power carried out at the very end of the process, at the time when the hydropower plant is built, and at the time when it performs the test work? What would happen if the Croatian Parliament denied support for this decision in question on the award of concessions? Would then an investment of 443 million kuna be another one in a series of wildly spent, and... The necessary kuna? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What rules need to be changed in order to avoid such things in the future? Have they initiated procedures to amend those rules in the relevant ministries? Here, an energy strategy is once again to be mentioned, which, I quote, is expected to be around 300 megawatts in large hydropower plants by 2020, including the Lesca hydropower plant, end of the quote. On this basis, we would like to stress in the HSS that we would not like to repeat in some new case the example of the Lesce hydropower plant, i.e. to build an object and then discuss the award of concessions. If we put on one side of the scale all the positives in this project, and on the other side all the negatives, it seems that the scale would still go over the other side. The area of the river is well recognised as extremely valuable and from the point of view of nature protection, and according to several criteria it was an ecological and extremely significant area, a habitat of endangered species at European and state level, a habitat of endemic properties for the Republic of Croatia, and an area that significantly contributes to the genetic link between the populations of biological species. The tourist potential of the area for tourism development, eco-tourism and eco-agricultural development, and due to the natural values of the area, annual revenues include tourism in significant natural sites such as Plitvice, Risnjak, Velebit, Gorski Kotar or Krka River. We must point out that this operation in space has caused a large number of endangered species to disappear from the Good River area, but their habitat has also disappeared. Therefore, in HSS, we would like to warn once again that certain species in the Republic of Croatia remain in several rivers, which is important to know when planning the remaining 247.7 megawatts of hydroenergy capacity by 2020, including smaller power plants. Lights, young man, otter, long-legged bat, red bat, big bat, southern horseshoe, crab, oculinic splinter, mysterious cave water... It's just some of the species that lost their habitat because of 40 megawatts so-called. renewable energy sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hope that future energy facilities will be built with more attention to space and environment, with more hearing for warnings from locals and NGOs and, of course, with more benefits for our beautiful country. Since the hydropower plant has already been built, there is certainly nothing left but to support the decision to grant a concession for the use of the water power supply to HEP, but here we appeal here to both the ministry of reference and to all those in charge of building energy facilities to seriously consider this initiative and to change the regulatory framework because it is absolutely insane to do the whole process upside down. So we advocate that those who build energy facilities must first seek concessions, and only then go into the construction process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40689	Thank you. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first reported representative is Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40690	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State you are here on behalf of the Government, Minister Pankretic did not come, so I ask you, what would happen if the Croatian Parliament did not adopt this decision, whether the Lesce Hydropower Plant should start working and producing electricity, or if it should be disarmed and the environment returned to its original state, because, as far as I know without the concession, no one should start doing anything. And the hydropower plant's done, it's finished, and there's no concession. Whether a private investor who would build a small power plant can get a building permit and build a hydropower plant, a wind power plant without a concession. Who's responsible for this shameful schlamper who happened to be a state-owned company that invests more than 400 million in a hydropower plant that doesn't have a concession. Mr. Secretary of State, do you feel responsible for this schlamper that happened? Legally. Whoever is responsible for the Water Act and its amendments and the Law on concessions which is also a new law could happen that the facility is finished and that the issue of awarding concessions is resolved after the completion of construction, I don't understand it, I thought you wanted, executive power, you government decision on awarding concessions before the start of construction, not after, reading the laws is obviously possible in Croatia to build a nuclear power plant without concession. Secondly, in the proposal for a decision, you pointed out that the amount of the annual concession is 1% of the average electricity production achieved, out of exactly 1%. The Water Act stipulates that when concessions are established, this is an article if I do not cheat on 147 criteria, a time limit for awarding concessions and everything else goes according to Article 155. And then in Article 155. The law says it's all determined by the government. So you didn't explain anywhere in the reasoning of the Decision why exactly 1%, why not 0.5 or 0.95. The second question, in the case of a one-time fee that will be and that is what counterpart Petir did not say, that this year's budget will be richer by 4 million 600 written by the dynamics of payment of concession fees will be determined by a concession agreement. And the contract with HEP will be signed by the regional development minister. Payment dynamics will be determined by a contract, does not this one-time fee go right after the contract is signed. It writes plural, concession fee, that fee should be paid immediately, and the payments of the annual concession can be determined dynamics and the subject matter of the contract, nothing else. But the interesting thing is, when this concession is the revenue of the state budget, so it goes to Minister Shucker, and there's 1%, hydropower plants or all electricity-generating facilities pay another fee, compensation for the spaces used by electricity-generating facilities, that fee is the income of local self-government, but it doesn't amount to 1%. You can see how our government, caring for local self-government and the government has decided with its decision that this fee of local community income amounts to, say, a hydropower plant called Chakovec is 0.3 June per kilowatt hour of electricity. 0.3 lipe, per kilowatt hour of electricity and a year ago when I did a calculation relative to the average electricity price, that was 0.6% of the price per kilowatt hour. Now I ask the question, Mr. Secretary of State, why are you taking 1% of the concession for the state, and at the same time you did not propose to the Government and Mrs. Kosor a new decision on the compensation for the premises used by electricity production facilities and there increased that fee to, say, 1%. Obviously, two resolutions do not cooperate with each other in the government, or it is a political decision that the state will take 1% of its concession on the same basis, but this fee that is the income of local self-government can remain 0.3 June per kilowatt hour. This is why it happens to you that the hydropower plant "Chakovec" or "Dubrava" with this vast space of lake, drain and waterway channels is paying HEP annually about a million and 300 municipalities on whose territory it is located. And when the "Lesce" hydropower plant is not only the first but the only power plant built in 20 years, but if you can answer me, I believe you know because you are well informed. 23 February 2006 portal Business. Croatia brings news: “INGRA also received an official notice yesterday from Croatia that the INGRA consortium and Međimurje Construction won the contest for the construction of the HE "Lesce" worth 425 million kuna with a deadline of 24 months. 9 months later, the second portal Index delivers a statement by Mr. Radovan Milisic, after 9 months of preparation on November 14th, the main works at the "Lesce" Hydropower Plant will begin with 443 million kuna and 35 months in the summer of 2009. How much did "Lesce" cost? 425.9 million or 443? The difference is only 17 million. Who was the bearer of the consortium of works that they had built, and what was the agreed deadline of construction? Given this variety of information in the public and the fact that we are making a decision on the concession when it is all over, I am almost finishing my debate with the question, what will you do to avoid the indignities about it and in the future that the Parliament does not make a decision on the concession when it is already finished but at the same time as the final decision on the preparation of the construction begins? Otherwise, I believe that this is the responsibility of an executive body who writes one law, the Water Act, writes another law, the Law on concessions, writes the third law, the Law on Croatian Electricity. Put them on a pile and you'll see that half of it doesn't work for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40691	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40692	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Lesar has actually stated that this failure that has been made with the failure to grant concessions for this plant before the start of its construction is actually the failure of the Ministry of Forestry, Water Management and Regional Development. But that's not the point. This is about the failure of actually the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and Environmental Protection because they must not issue a permit to build any building until such a document has been filed and submitted when applying for a building permit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40693	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40694	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, recently we were just talking about the very energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. We've been looking for as much as normal energy as possible, and especially from renewable sources, it's safe, we said that the use of water goods for electricity is certainly one good thing. Now, the question is, how many of these are a renewable or non-renewable power plant, or what does it mean to build a hydropower plant like this? I think it's good, I'm sure we all conclude that we're working, that we're creating the energy sources that we're going to use, but when we listen to all of this today and when we've discussed this and on committees, one big one is being set up and we're getting to one big one, but that's all that hasn't been done well before. This now, the conclusion that we have such an object is certainly good, but why water, the environment of nature, is our wealth that we need to protect, which is why it is not good that we haven't talked before, discussed and came to some knowledge of how to move into such an undertaking. An example of environmental and nature disturbances, we have a lot. We've had before today and the worst when this environmental disorder is in favor of acquiring a certain capital. I think there's progress today, so here's when every time I go towards Požega, or Great, when I see that part of the Papuka, at the entrance to the natural park, which is carved formally because of the work of the quarry, I ask myself, who gave these concessions permission? What is the result of this and what, and yet, when it is seen that often since the destruction of the environment, these resources have been used for the dishonest actions of certain people who have managed them, the question that people allow it is raised? Which institutions give such concessions? So you're seeing this today's concession for the Leće hydropower plant on the River Dobri, and it's likely that once in the future, the same will be recorded that this assembly has given such consent to the award of that concession. But then it won't say that this concession is already approved for one done thing, and the finished thing is this hydropower plant, and surely this finished thing isn't so important and important that we can't say that we can't do it that way. We certainly are not and do not think only as nature guards, but we need to talk earlier and talk about what has been said today, what is being said and why with such concessions is being destroyed, and that we have not previously ensured that this environment remains in one normal state. In order to protect this environment, in particular, the conditions should be increasingly strict in such constructions, and primarily to give concessions and that the concessionary who will use it, or the one who will build it, says how and what it will do to protect that environment. Why do people want this environment to be clean? Because we have the opportunity to live better then, but we also leave a quality space for future generations. Croatia, which is among the first five countries in Europe for drinking water supplies, I think should continue to do so. That these water streams rich in flora and fauna should also be preserved if we still want to create a new tourist offer and create a better income. The birds, the fish, here is the distinguished representative Petyr certainly highly described all that with this kind of attack on the environment are being destroyed by all fish and birds etc. in this space, surely this kind of procedure of a man in nature loses one normal way of life and life. It is good to say that there should also be compensation contracts, at least the minimum flow of life allow biological life and be minimal damage and that these minimal impacts on the river are still normal from such a hydropower plant. However, we cannot ask, too, that the concession, that is, the beginning of the work, should be in that part primarily, and that everything else that comes and ends itself, should no longer be asked. That's why I don't think we can accept the statue quo. First finish the job, then ask for permission. It is certainly not acceptable under the law, nor by the morals of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40695	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40696	Dear colleague, I think it is a key issue when we talk about this decision, in fact, until we as a member of Croatia, regardless of whether it is about us as a legislative authority or an executive authority, we will allow in principle that procedures and laws are raped in Croatia. You've given a very good warning about a total chaos that rules in procedures that actually involve exploitation and stone, and I'd say even bigger as it happens in the exploitation of gravel. So we have a situation where licenses are issued afterwards, after the quarrys are built and the pebbles are already extracting gravel, or we have situations where there are no permits or concessions at all. What's happening here is that state institutions don't do their jobs. Neither the inspection services react in the sense that they are closing such quarryes, closing such pebbles, and I am afraid that Nature Park "Papuk" is one of the significant examples of such abuse is actually the procedure and rape of the law in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40697	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40698	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Mirela, normally, here's the way we talk about today when we have to give the concession for one done thing, to point out exactly that it reminds us of everything that's been going on and what's unfortunately still going on. What is most tragic is often not knowing who gives these permits, nor who is given them, nor who uses them at all. The violation of this biological concept of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the protection of the environment from such usurpators, certainly extends not only to the destruction of this environment, but also to one of the worse lives of people who live. In particular, let's say around these quarrys where the residents don't know in the Great or places around such quarrys, normally they also have health problems and therefore it all takes place in one closed circle, while the one who takes that capital, who uses it, and from which the state ultimately seems to have the least use, does not bother doing all of its activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40699	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Zdravko Krmek. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40700	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me begin by thanking all of you who took part in today's debate. But here I also want to give some concrete answers to the questions that you asked here today. First of all, I want to say the question of building the Lesje plant. As we learned in the introduction, it started somewhere in 1995. It's absolutely clear that we as a resolute ministry, when we received this request, that we had complete documentation for insight. What I'm saying is that you found out here today, so the project started earlier. It's absolutely clear and it's true. But I also want to say that this is the first power plant to be built and the first concession to be given, hopefully not the only one, hopefully not the last. What is still important to say here means that the investor's business, or Croatian electricity, is the matter of their decision-making business when they enter the building. What I can say is that all the documentation that's been delivered regardless of when it's made, it's based on our legal acts. And what I want to do again, and what here today is not sufficiently apostropheal, which is that all the area within the accumulation of the land particles and everything else will be public water well. So that's not what it's been until now. It will be now. And it's one of the big gains in this process, is in the future no one will be able to buy that battery. What I'm still trying to add is this is about these fees. A one-time fee must be paid before the contract is signed. After you make a decision on the award of this concession, the resolution ministry will make a concession contract, where it will assign this concession to the end-user, i.e. HEP, under the conditions that will be set there. It is also important for understanding to add that in addition to this one-time fee there will be payments by the end-user and the annual concession fee so that I can say, here I am about now and made one calculation, one calculation that the state budget will receive from this concession during the duration of the concession 25.9 million kuna. I don't think that's small and that absolutely from an economic point of view and these two concession fees will fill our state budget. More questions have been raised that are unfortunately not in this ministry's jurisdiction, these are particularly issues as to how much it cost. At the end of the day, whoever paid for it and the investor knows how much it cost. Therefore, whether it cost 425 million kuna or 445 million kuna, I think it should be asked. Finally, as far as these concessions for quarryes are concerned, it is within the power of the Ministry of Economy. But what I'm saying is that the Resorving Ministry and the Government are absolutely working on is that the use of material especially from the quarry or from the river that we've had good results lately, I can say so, that we've actually managed to catch those who do it. And I can say that here's the M.O.P. seized certain trucks, bangers, etc. Because it's that part of the use for which there are no concessions or anything else. So it's about illegal activities. In the end, here's what I'm trying to say is that as a resolute ministry, we're going to start a procedure for all the future activities that will take place if we eventually build another power plant or any other facility, that it's going to be an obligation to get an early concession for water use. Well, if it's normal, she'll come here and see you at your parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40701	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing is at 3:00 with a debate on the 2008 State's Attorney's Office's work report. Proposal for a decision on the award of a concession for the use of water power for the production of electricity to the Croatian Electricity Company d.d. Zagreb at the Leće Hydropower Plant on the River Dobri, is the proposer of the government. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the award of a concession for the use of water power for the production of electricity to the Croatian Electricity Company d.d. Zagreb at the Lesce Hydropower Plant on the River Dobri. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 82 votes for, 4 abstentions and 12 against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40704	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the Constitutional Obligation before you is the Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2008. It was methodological in May of this year in accordance with Article 4(2). The Law on State Attorney's Office and contains data on the state and movement of crime, as well as a report on the work of all state attorneys in the area of criminal, civil and administrative law, the legal issue of individual areas, the review and organisation of the status of personnel, and a proposal to improve work. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The State's Attorney's Office Act which must contain this report. In order to facilitate the monitoring of certain parts of the report, we initially provide in the report several basic data on the state's attorney's office and on the work of the state's attorneys. The State's Attorney's Office's affairs were carried out by 61 municipal state's attorneys, 20 county, USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. In all these state attorneys, including the USKOK, 570 state lawyers and deputies of whom 370 on criminal cases and 200 on civil cases that deputies and state lawyers are fully in line with the Law on State Attorneyship independent in the work and decision-making, i.e. decision-making. Content and content of this report similar to reports from earlier years, so it is possible to combine data, i.e. statistical indicators, particularly in those tables on the state and movement of crime and the work of the state's attorney in the persecution of perpetrators of criminal offences and on the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia. Before carrying out the basic figures, I can say that in 2008, there were no major changes compared to the previous three years, and the reporting crime was in a slightly smaller decline while the state's attorney's office as a whole kept reaching the level of urgency. In the report itself, detailed data and parameters are given both for the monitoring and movement of crime and for the actions taken to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, and I am now giving only a few important indicators, relevant for the state and movement of crime, i.e. the work of the state's attorney's office in the past year. A total of 85,000 new applications against known and unknown perpetrators or 4% less than a year earlier were received. The main feature of crime reporting is the continuation of that trend of the number of reports against known perpetrators by 2%, i.e. against unknowns by 5% or the average of 4% in minus. As far as territorial distribution and crime are concerned, it is shown by the counties from which it originates, as it did in earlier years, that the area of Istria, or Pula, is the most represented that we interpret as well as in earlier years exclusively with tourism crime. We have also done an additional analysis to see if this is the way we claim in earlier years in the report, and it has indeed proved that the particularly marginal state attorneys at the border have a significant number of criminal charges for crossing the border, i.e. the easiest forms of drug abuse. In this regard, despite the fact that it is not in a certain way opportune to say that the crime rate in Croatia is not worrying about the fact that 100 000 people received a criminal report in 1933, which is a much more favourable relationship compared to neighbouring countries, this is especially when compared with the statistics on crime and criminal justice in EUROSTAT in 2007 and the eighth where the Republic of Croatia is extremely low-ranked compared to the number of crimes on 100,000 inhabitants. Of course, here I must stress that when we talk about these statistical indicators, we must say that it can and must only apply to so-called. classic crime, where is so-called the number of criminality at least determines, and not on, economic or corrupt crime which we can only come to by systematic research of all bodies of detection, but not only by them. The structure of crime of known and unknown persons has not been significantly altered. 55.4% are crimes against freedom, human and citizen rights. 6.9 are crimes of drug abuse, etc. etc. The average time of work on criminal cases is below 3 months. Of course, in a part of the important large, large objects this time is therefore longer due to the collection of additional data, i.e. the conduct of investigations. However, special supervision of them is conducted in these cases, but the State's Attorney's Office, apart from writing rushes and asking the head of the body to act more effectively in those cases. He has no legal authority to act otherwise. Reports older than 6 months are individually monitored and state attorney's offices reported in these applications twice a year by the State's attorneys of the Republic of Croatia. So much for the items that could be called standing in state's attorney's drawers. 50758 measurement decisions were taken against known perpetrators of criminal offences. Directly accused resolved about half of 49.2%, 39.8% of reports were rejected, an extremely high number of rejections of criminal charges. However, you must take into account as shown in the statistical indicators and the examinations in the tables most refer to the application of the institute of minor social hazards and a significant number to the criminal offence of drug abuse, as referred to in paragraph 1, so on those mild forms of drug use. The number of rejections is high because the state's attorney's office is not only reported by the police, whose applications are generally better drawn up and supported and where the percentage of these rejections is significantly lower than in general, but also by citizens, the legal person, where after the checks have been carried out, a good part of these applications are rejected. During the eighth year of sanctions and measures imposed against 23 000 898 people, therefore so many convictions have been passed, the percentage of convictions against adults is 86.2%, as success is good and moves within the framework of the European Union's prosecutors' success. Success is a little less than last year, but we are interpreting it thanks to the fact that courts have been arguing lately in older cases where proof of time is more important. Although the courts as well as the previous years in the selection of sanctions in the largest number of cases are opting for a conditional conviction, in the eighth year the policy of punishment was stricter than otherwise and 18.8% were prison sentences, which so far was relatively high percentage and did not measure the criteria of success of work, I must admit, because this, high percentage of unconditional prison sentences depended on the fact that the Croatian Parliament’s decisions were strict in terms of certain criminal offences and this is the result and so on. In relation to younger perpetrators, attention is focused on their retraining and guidance and data on the return of minors and younger minors you have in the tables of our annual report, showing that to a large extent most of these cases are achieving the objectives of conducting the procedure. Speaking of court decisions, the State's Attorney's office is seeking to relieve the courts through the requirements of issuing a criminal order. In the past year, 4000 197 warrants have been required, which in their nature change court rulings and thus facilitate, or contribute to speeding up court proceedings and making bigger decisions. If you start from the fact that I initially said that 24,000 people were convicted in the past year, and that we made at least 3,000 such decisions through criminal orders, then more than 10%, so 15% of the court decisions were made through criminal orders. The structure of crime has not changed since earlier years, however, it remains a finding from earlier years that success in the pursuit of serious crimes of economic crime is significantly less than for other crimes. The reason is the exceptional complexity of proving these crimes and the State's Attorney's office daily suffers criticism for working in this area, in part because of an unadjusted legislative framework for economic crimes, and in part for other reasons that you will certainly speak more of than we do. In this regard, I would certainly like to point out the perception of the places and roles of the State's Attorney's Office in the public, even in the professional public, which is significantly different from the real position and role of the State's Attorney's office as defined by the Constitution and the law. On a daily basis, when it comes to possible illegalities or even irregularities, it is required from the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the USKOK to investigate the case and assess whether or not it is illegal or legal. According to the perception of the public, it is necessary to investigate the illegalities and irregularities in health, banking system, education, sport, political organisations, trade societies, etc. In short, the State Attorney's Office is transformed into a body of general supervision of all segments of social, political and economic order. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, who should investigate this in the State's Attorney's Office? Three hundred deputies working in the penitentiary departments or 20 of them vice directors of USKOK? I'm stressing the 20 deputy directors of USKOK. They should carry out reconnaissances, reveal and investigate crimes, collect facts, etc. The state's attorney's office is a law enforcement body, a state's attorney is extremely rare when all other mechanisms are scheduled, as has been mentioned in public in recent days, just investigating and conducting reconnaissances. These jobs are generally in the jurisdiction of other bodies, criminal police, tax administrations, state office audits, inspections and other supervisory authorities, which are equipped and trained for these tasks. But in public for all that is responsible is the State's Attorney's Office. Let's ask ourselves if that's why such a picture was created. Whether due to the relatively good performance of the State's Attorney's Office, and it is rare to point out that it is unsuccessful or because the State's Attorney's Office has very often only taken the actions that other bodies should have taken. A debate about this would show the true state of affairs. I would like to point out that in public, a false picture of the place and the role of the State's Attorney's office is being created in criminal proceedings. According to the picture, not only is the lawyer responsible for the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences, he is called for not filing a criminal complaint, although he is exclusively filing a criminal complaint to the attorney of the state, so he has no one to submit it to. He is unsuccessful if he does not initiate the procedure, and very often there is talk of failed persecution, if a satisfactory verdict has not been reached after the indictment has been filed. In the entire criminal proceedings, the state's attorney is a link in the chain, he's a law enforcement body, he has no jurisdiction or capacity to conduct criminal proceedings or financial investigations and detect crimes and perpetrators. The state's attorney doesn't reveal the perpetrators of criminal acts, it's not his jurisdiction. A State lawyer shall be responsible for the decision regarding the application after receipt of applications and information and shall direct the work of the police and other state bodies. I believe it is justified to say that the state's attorney is not successful in the proceedings if there are a large number of negative court decisions, but he can neither be responsible for detecting the perpetrators of criminal offences nor for the course of the proceedings outside the State's attorney's office. I do not intend to defend these and such allegations with the work and results of the state's attorneys' offices, but only to point to a clearly defined constitutional and legal position of the State's attorney's office, to point out the need to respect and strengthen the principle of legality and the real role of the State's attorney in the persecution and prosecution of perpetrators of crimes being prosecuted under official duty. Certainly also at the responsibility of the State Attorney's Office on a daily basis, but only within the Constitutional and Legal Frameworks and the real capacities it has at its disposal. In doing so, I must point out what is of course well known to all of you, that criminal law enforcement is the final measure of the order of responsibility for the violation of the Constitution and the law, starting with moral, political, material and ultimately criminal liability. Something about the work of the Jump. In a thousand, i.e. in 2008, USKOK continued to have increased its activity, the number of cases increased to a thousand 385, growing year after year. Deputys who work on these USKOK items, and they are 20, of course they can't and shouldn't work on all those items, because a good part of these USKOK items are not such nature and quality that they should be dealt with by USKOK deputy directors. As a result, the relevant decisions, in accordance with the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, part of these minor, leniency cases or more insignificant ones, have been transferred to work in regular lawyers' offices in order not to burden themselves with their number of work done by the USKOK itself. In particular, cooperation and joint work with other countries' competent authorities are particularly important for the work of USKOK. The result of such cooperation, as well as particularly police cooperation, is stronger than that in regular state attorneys in pre-trial proceedings, against members of a number of organised groups carried out long-term reconnaissances that have been successfully completed especially in organised drug crime cases. We can say that in cooperation with the office and other police, the police successfully expose groups involved in the illegal sale of narcotics and the transfer of people across borders, which is of particular attention in reports around the European Union. Without special reconnaissance measures and international cooperation, such disclosure would not be possible. As far as corruption crimes are concerned, we are talking about 2008, there have been 218 new applications for corruption crimes, a detailed review has been given on a particular type of criminal offences, etc., but I have also pointed out this in our report, although the number of applications received is relatively at the same level as in earlier years is somewhat less true, I believe that there have been significant quality shifts in relation to quality and type of criminal cases. On the basis of data from the Office on the structure of the accused persons for taking bribes, it is increasingly possible to process persons from the ranks of senior state and judicial officials, health and university employees including three vice-presidents of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, a judge of the senior commercial court, a municipal state attorney, 9 university professors, 8 doctors, a county state attorney, etc. If this adds that, among other things, the abuse of the position and other corrupt acts have been accused and two municipal court presidents, one President of the County Court, the county state's attorney, four lawyers, then we cannot say that USKOK is only being prosecuted so-called. Street corruption is already high and medium-level corruption. The detection of corrupt offences is an extremely difficult and complex procedure, as it is generally a four-eyed business and, where appropriate, by means of the appropriate measures referred to in Article 180. The law on criminal proceedings does not immediately come to the results very difficult later, and it is almost impossible to prove it because other than verbal statements that are very rarely given there is no other evidence. Some well-known cases named by different names through operational actions began shortly after citizens were reported to the State Attorney's Office and followed by the use of special reconnaissance measures. In certain proceedings, the office has started several criminal proceedings for corruption crimes that have caused public attention. I think it is necessary to say that we in the State's Attorney's Office are keeping them successful and we are getting such assessments in the conversation with foreign colleagues we are working with and by the European Commission's competent authorities. The criminality of minors aged 5 years is in decline as the criminality of minors varies and after an increase of 6 and 7 years, in 8 years it is again in a minor decline so that for several years it has been stable from the display about the same level there is no worrying increase and in particular is not a worrying structure of this crime. During 2008, 1043 applications were received against legal persons, and we can now say that the Law on Liability of Legal Persons has been brought into practice and you know that you brought it to the Croatian Parliament several years ago and every year the responsibility of legal persons is on the rise. Civil-Governmental Departments of State Attorneys in 2008 received 116 thousand new cases by joining that number of 80s and some thousands of criminal state attorneys in their work annually have about 200 new cases. The increase in civil subjects is 15%, but only because of the increased involvement of the state's attorney's office due to the recording of state property. On the other hand, however, the trend of reducing the number of litigation cases in the 8th year was sustained 20% less than a year earlier or a total of 6178. By observing the total number of disputes still the most involved in this number of work disputes, which is related to labour disputes or to the dismissal or reception of workers, the total value of the litigation cases or disputes we had in the work on the basis of the law was around 12 billion kuna, half a billion kuna more than a year ago. However, this should not be alarmed because those half a billion are precisely on the side of the active role of the state, so the prosecutor is a state for 600 million kuna more than a year ago. The priorities of the State Attorney's Office, but not only of the State's Attorney's Office in Civil Affairs, are books, given the fact that, as you know the provisions of the Law on Property, and other real rights or the Law on Land Books, the principle of trust in land books has been suspended until 1 January 2010 so that we try to register all property of the Republic of Croatia by that date. By 30 June 2009, 96.05% of all recorded cadastral particles were recorded and we will certainly have the largest share of all recorded cadastrian particles recorded by the end of the year. In connection with other matters, state attorneys can particularly point out that we are reporting on judicial reforms especially those relating to the work of the State's Attorney's Office, amendments to the laws that matter to us in this direction, the creation of legislative frameworks for the more effective work of the judiciary as a whole, and hence the State's Attorney's Office. In conclusion, I'd like to point out the following. Achieved level of up-to-dateness allows state attorneys and their deputies to work significantly better. By monitoring the work and supervision of the work, we have achieved satisfactory updates in the work of the criminal departments, the total number of pending applications is getting smaller and smaller and smaller than a third of the monthly inflow of new applications. Special attention is paid to the monitoring of USKOK's work in complex cases, and the USKOK has full support of the entire state's attorney's office at work in concrete cases. In order to achieve good supervision of work, it is necessary to create a database on work on specific subjects and informative integration of state attorneys under way thanks to financial interventions in this direction and to strengthen the budget of the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK. By rejecting criminal charges in all those cases where this is justified, the law prevents unnecessary management of the procedure of alternative ways of resolving civil and criminal cases from being a priority in the work of both departments, as we thus reduce pressure on courts and solve those less important cases that do not thus burden the courts. The reviews of individual state attorneys are constant every two years, and thus we open up the possibility of these cases being resolved beyond surveillance, etc. Experiences in the application of the new Criminal Procedure Act which entered into force on 01 July of this year for USKOK cases are also very positive and several of the cases that we are doing under the new Criminal Procedure Act have shown that the amendment of the law, i.e. the adoption of a new law in that direction, has already justified the reasons for the adoption. Unfortunately, the State Attorney's Office in certain areas has great difficulties in the reception and employment of officials and officials, but also in relation to the education that we pay great attention to the urgency of civil and administrative departments at work in litigation administrative cases in large part depends on the urgency of the conduct of individual state bodies and courts. We keep stressing that, without the pretense to justify ourselves in that direction, but rather, we want to achieve the best possible result together. Data on the procedures for the most serious crimes of economic crime show that research into complex cases of economic crime, corruption and organised crime requires joint work between police and individual agencies, the Ministry of Finance and other supervisory authorities under the supervision of the state's attorney. Without the joint work of all of these state bodies, the State's Attorney's Office cannot be successful in persecuting this crime. Co-ordinated work on detecting this crime, obtaining quality facts and evidence is a prerequisite for the success of the State's Attorney's Office, etc. Finally, it is the duty of a state attorney to pursue prosecution, but only if, on the basis of the evidence and facts at his disposal, which he has received from other bodies, he suspects that this person has committed a criminal offence for which he is accused. In doing so, the attorney general is bound by the principle of legality because the procedure can and must go only when there is a reasonable doubt. This interpretation of the principle of legality is "condicio act quo non" in the work of state attorneys and at the cost of being at odds with part of the public. Unfortunately, public affairs are increasingly highlighted that reveal and accuse and judge themselves in the same day. It may be acceptable, but believe me, with such information available daily in the media, a state attorney cannot and must not go to court because it would question the principle of legality that is fundamental in his work. Finally, as a responsible person at the head of the State's Attorney's Office and certainly most interested in his success, I must say that so far I have invested the most energy and knowledge not in solving specific cases, because as you know, state lawyers and deputies are independent in their work and decision-making, but in the one where I could and had to do the most, which is training, construction and organisation of the state's attorney's system. In short, I tried to train the State's Attorney's Office, and I believe that the results presented for 2008 confirm that. It is important to raise the efficiency of the system, and thus to create or promote public sensibility for the role and obligations of the State Attorney's Office in the plan to fight corruption and organised crime, war crimes and the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia. I stress that the State's Attorney's Office is not a body that would intend to impose legal standards or working discipline on other institutions, but a body that should be persecuted by those who undermine other institutions with crime and above all by abuse. In the coming period, they can certainly promise greater efficiency in view of the current reform in the State's Attorney's Office, but also of a number of new legislative frameworks, above all, of the new Criminal Procedure Act, which allowed the State's Attorney's Office to conduct an investigation. I also think of other institutions that participate in the detection and processing of perpetrators of criminal offences, which are also significantly adapted to European standards. Because without quality development and action of all competent institutions, quality results cannot be expected. In addition to these days, you have also read the European Commission's report on progress in which the role of the State's Attorney's Office is highlighted, as well as a statement by the chief Hague prosecutor on co-operation in the persecution of war crimes offenders. Finally, I feel the need for a brief look at the public opinion, and for this report or before this report, according to which I did not make good or timely decisions as the attorney general. I want to make it clear that I have always been and am willing to take responsibility for everything that has not been good in the work of the State Attorney's Office because the vast majority of the state's attorneys and deputies as well as the clerks and tenants are honestly and honestly doing their otherwise extremely difficult and responsible job. In doing so, I stress that I am willing to take responsibility in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, but not outside of it, for which work and the results of work neither have the power nor the ability to influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40705	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Justice Committee? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, chairman of the Committee, Mr. Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40706	Respect for Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Attorney General. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security as an interested working body discussed a full picture of the work of the Croatian State Attorney's Offices, the USKOK of County, Municipal and State Attorney's Offices, and noted in particular that 4% less applications than in 2007. Also, as has already been pointed out from the number of applications submitted specifically pointed to 37.8% of rejections. Special attention in the discussion we had on the board was related to the registration of state property and I must point out that the committee is behind the support of the extension of deadlines especially in this section relating to state property for reasons that some of the state property is not registered, and 96.7% of the property is currently completed with the book. Since 01.01.2010 trust under the Law of Ownership and other real rights is in force, this could lead to the fact that perhaps a seemingly small percentage, and in fact a huge property owned by the Republic of Croatia is not registered to be and in this way lost. It is pointed out for the cases covered by the USKOK's jurisdiction that the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act have been justified, and I must also say in principle that, in addition to this way of extending the time limit of trust in the Land Book for the Committee, it was particularly important, and that special attention should be paid to better cooperation and coordination between the various state administration bodies. And above all, those parts that we can call repressive, which is also the State Inspectorate, the State Audit Office as well as other bodies, so that they have to file criminal charges on their own instead of notifying the possible committing of a criminal offence only to the State's Attorney's office. It is also noted that a more successful fight against organised crime would be exactly one answer and would be hit on crime where it hurts most. Especially by pointing out that segment relating to the tax administration. It was also proposed that it would be very good to have a report of the State Attorney's Office in the procedure under the Police Law, together with a report by the State's Attorney's Office, so that they could join together and discuss the full state of security and, at the end of the majority of the votes, the Committee proposed that the 2008 State's Attorney's Office's work be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40707	Thank you. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports? The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the representative of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40708	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. This report by the state's attorney shows an envious efficiency in the work of the state's attorney's office when it comes to the pursuit of general criminality. Then when it comes to criminals by profession or criminals amateurs or beginners. And there's the SDP's Club of Representatives who still won't accept this report. Here's why. I'm saying the SDP counseling club won't accept this report. Here's why. We do not see efficiency in the work of the State Attorney's Office when it comes to the prosecution of criminal offences in which the perpetrators are or where there is reasonable or reasonable doubt that the perpetrators are within the circle of politics. Where the discovery of criminal acts comes to the top of the government. The state's attorney rightly says the State's Attorney's Office is not in charge of disclosing criminal offences. That's right. But the state's attorney has to react when he gets his voice about committing crimes and has to seek police assistance in detecting these crimes. There are several examples that I'm going to say a little bit more about where it turns out that the state's attorney didn't do that. As a first example, I'm going to take not the worst maybe, but the most famous one. It's an affair in getting trucks from the MORH in 2004. Five years have passed since events the State's Attorney's Office now considers to be a serious form of crime of abuse of position and authority. What happened in those five years? Did the state's attorney maybe not know that there was a reasonable suspicion of committing a crime? This apology cannot be granted because the President of the Republic as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, apparently a well-informed person, has warned him on several occasions over the past five years that this matter should be investigated. Nothing's been done. Now that the removal of immunity has been requested for Agent Roncevic's prosecution, due to the start of the prosecution, we can now see if any new elements have emerged in those four years. Does the State's Attorney's office know anything? Did anything find out yesterday, the day before yesterday, a year ago, that she couldn't have known four years ago? I'm gonna talk about this case because I'm very familiar with it, since I ran a parliamentary investigation committee. All that evidence existed four years ago. There was an invitation to tender, there were offers, there were prominent prices, there was the opinion of the expert part of the commission that everyone was meeting technical requirements, technical conditions, there was a document on the cancellation of the tender, there was a written decision by Minister Roncevic to negotiate exclusively with the company Eurokamion, there was a contract on procurement, there was an advance payment. Everything since 2004. And yet the State's Attorney's office is doing nothing. When does the State's Attorney's office take action? Then when Minister Roncevic stops being a minister. After the term of office of a government, he stopped being defence minister, but was appointed interior minister after the elections. And the State's Attorney's Office, of course, is doing nothing while Roncevic is the minister. Only when Rončević changed, not because of the "Caminia" affair, but because he proved to be a completely incompetent interior minister, which we claimed to be the note six months before his shift, was it then that the State's Attorney's office sent a request to the police to do the surprise operations. What does this police recon show? It shows that there are grounds for doubt. It shows that you need to go on a prosecution and you're obviously going into a prosecution. Four years too late. Why are you too late? Well, because I doubt that after four years, it will be possible to establish a trail of missing money. Who did that 10 million kuna from Erukamion go to? E, and if it had taken place immediately, special measures could have been applied, and then the money trail would have been determined. And this affair would have been handled better, better quality. But not only would it be treated better and better quality than we would all be together and our entire society would be certain that we have a state attorney's office that doesn't fear politics and that doesn't withdraw from politics. Such a state attorney's office that doesn't wait for some minister to stop being a minister and then go to prove to him if he's committed any crimes. All investigations initiated by the state's attorneys in the major affairs that rock Croatia stand at the gates of the Ban Courts. That's where they stop. Example I said there's more. Ships Split is an affair where more money is gone, almost $5 million. Again, the state's attorney can't say that he didn't know about her, so at the very least our colleague Marin Jurjevic warned him at least 20 times that the Brodosplit affair was a serious affair and that she should at least be questioned. And here we have a prominent member of Mr. Vukelic's government as chairman of the Supervisory Board. And that's where all the investigations come to a member of the government. And there's no question about political involvement in the affair. These days we find out and even admits that Minister Karamarko was willing to testify as a penitent in the affair but then someone told him that you were crazy, that you would be a penitent when it would all end up under the rug anyway. So the first defendant gave up his penance. And that's what the first accused was told, and that's what's coming true. The SDP does not want the state's attorney's office, does not want Croatia to have a state's attorney's office where such large affairs are stopped at the government door and all traces lead across the threshold of those doors. The SDP is not paranoid when it claims that corruption, that crime exists at the top of the government. It also warns the European Union, and it clearly says clear corruption at the top of the government, do not confuse us by sending us reports of how you arrested or proved corruption to two doctors and one police officer on the road. The European Union clearly tells us you have a problem, you have a corrupt power and you cannot join the European Union, you will not enter European society until you have solved this problem. The SDP wants Croatia to have such a state attorney's office that it will not go after only when it has to, when there is no other way out, when all the evidence already comes out of the paper, when the European Union clearly says you have to solve it. The SDP wants Croatia to have a state attorney's office that will go to the persecution with responsibility, courage and without political calculations. We had an affair at HFP. Well, there were a few ministers there now not only in surveillance but in the board of directors. It made decisions. Can there be any decision on privatisation without members of the board of directors knowing it? Who in their right mind can believe that? But the investigation ends at the minister's door, too. Finally, we're having an affair with Podravka. All those addressed are saying that in Podravka a kilo of carrots can't be bought without Polancec's approval or not knowing it. And here everything stops at the door of Polance's office. You know, in '99, the state's attorney was Rohatinski, and before the election, we could all watch TV. ... It was Ortinski, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And we were all able to watch as before the election of the members, members of that criminal organization from custody, were already in custody, brought before an investigative judge bent in the back, with his hands bent on his back, almost led to an investigative judge. The whole public saw it as a spectacle, as showing the determination of the HDZ authorities' last days to deal with crime. Today, when we are to discuss and discuss the State's Attorney's Office report, arrests take place in Podravka. The SDP doesn't want this kind of play. We want the State's Attorney's office to work seriously, to work responsibly, to work without political pressure, and not to stop investigations where they should begin the poorest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40709	Thank you. Two corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40710	I have to correct my distinguished colleague, Stazic, that the State's Attorney's office is only initiating proceedings when someone stops being a minister. If that were the case then here six years ago, let's say he stopped being Minister Lucin stopped being Minister, Mr. Linic's Deputy Prime Minister, although in exactly the same way as Roncevic's trucks got 210 Mercedes fire trucks. Calls for cancellation, a decision to buy 210 expensive vehicles was taken after the tender was cancelled at the government's secret session. So the pattern equals. Since six years ago they stopped being ministers, the vice presidents of the government are living proof that it's not exactly so that the State's Attorney's office can't wait for someone to move and then move on it. Besides, it's never too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40711	The second amendment, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct Mr. Stazic's incorrect allegations that the European Union has said that Croatia has corrupt power. Namely, that statement is, not only absolutely incorrect. She's malicious and she's for daily-political purposes. This if the negotiations warns that the efficiency of state bodies, the judiciary, etc. needs to be strengthened. That's one thing. But this assessment that the entire Croatian government is corrupt is absolutely malicious and ordinary political demagogy for daily political purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40713	Attorney General Mladen Bajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40714	Mr. Vice President, I don't want to comment on the value courts. That doesn't come to mind, especially the SDP's assessment of the report. But I have to say that part of the quote of the esteemed representative of Stazic is not correct or rather not true. It's true that a state's attorney acts when his voice reaches him. Unfortunately, the state's attorney was not at the Zapresic market to hear that President Mesic mentions that there are certain irregularities in the MORH. It's true I wasn't there. The first vote to reach the state's attorney is December 7th, 2007 when an article released in "The Morning List" saying, "The President Mesic requires an investigation into the affair of trucks." The same day, the state's attorney forms a file. 7.12.2007. asked the State Audit for the results of the proceedings and since then the investigation has been conducted since 7.12.2007, of 7.12.2007. On the other hand, during the investigation, we came up with data that some other bodies are, so in the opening part of my report, I'm saying that the attorney general is not a body of general supervision. On 27 January 2005, there is information from one service sent to President Mesic, among other things but only to him, not to a state lawyer in which he writes and talks about the affair of trucks. She never made it to the state's attorney or the police, so you know right away. So I categorically remove that possibility of speculating especially that I'm doing it. No one in the State's Attorney's office does that. It's not simple. It's being a state's attorney to collect evidence to go out with them in court is a very difficult and responsible job. That's why I emphasized the principle of legality. It's easy to call anyone in public, even if it won't be accepted by the media to write an article. But you need to go to court and prove what you're saying is true. The evidence is very difficult to collect. "Brodosplit", "Brodosplit" is even less accurate than you said, the state's attorney, after learning about the Austrian colleagues and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering I went into the process without ever getting a criminal application. The investigation has been conducted in front of a court in Split for two years. That's why and when this investigation is going to end, I'm personally thinking by the end of the year for sure. But he's in court. So two years ago he went into the process and that was after he learned from his Austrian colleagues about the existence of reasonable doubt. The content of the subject, of course, of people that I will not speak, or the gentlemen of the MPs, I apologize, only because when we talk about the Annual Report of the State's Attorney's Office, then we are talking about the numerical indicators that are the essence of our work. Operation Maestro is the same thing. Four vice-presidents of the Croatian Privatisation Fund were brought before the court. Operation Maestro is what I think was successful, and I'm sure by the end there will be even better results than they were now since we've filed proper complaints in that case, but something else is still going on. However, what we had in the case we assessed, we went with it to court. The control of our work in this case is particularly available if a parliamentary commission is formed to examine how we did here. You need to know all the facts so you can draw the right conclusions about it. And finally, this fourth case, I think it's funny to talk more about an object that has just begun, which began unrelated to the State's Attorney's Annual Report. Because I feel free to tell you gentlemen of the council, make sure that the report on the work of the state's attorneys and the responsibility of the attorney general are not connected. You're looking for my resolution and my shift, but you're keeping an eye on what the State's Attorney's Office report says and on the work of a state attorney who didn't deserve to be associated with any policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40715	Correction of the quote, Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40716	Mr. Bajic here has on several occasions stated that he can only be held accountable for what the State's Attorney's Office is doing, but not for some other institutions and that you are not a body as you have said to a general supervisory officer. So, Mr. Bajic, you've been elected to this House and if anyone is obstructing you in your work then you've been obliged to come to this House and say who's obstructing you. Even today in this debate, I expect you to make it very clear who is obstructing all investigations and persecution of crime in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40717	He didn't say. That's not it, the attorney general didn't say he was being obstructed, so don't correct the nonexistent claim. HDZ Club, Ms. Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40718	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I will, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, come back on the subject and I will analyse the 2008 report on the work of the State Attorney's Office, which is before us today, because I hold that to evaluate, question and evaluate the work of the State's Attorney's Office should be far wider than a single case which is here today so much media and populistly interesting to me. Therefore, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, according to its constitutional position, is an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences and to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the law. As we have seen from the State's Attorney's Office report, this constitutional task behaves in accordance with the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, through 61 municipal attorney's office, 20 county attorney's offices, a specialized department of USKOK, and a state attorney's office with 69 state lawyers and 501 deputies. In its 2008 Annual Report, the State Attorney's Office presents a picture of the state of movement of the structure of the criminal offences reported and of the work on criminal cases and civil matters as well as the state of the subject matter of civil and administrative nature. The report is based on the statistics of the State Attorney's Office which, in all respects, does not correspond to general statistics, however, the methodology of the statistical monitoring of the state's attorneyship and the production of the report provides a good systematic demonstration of the work of the state's attorneys in the area of criminal, civil, administrative, and it is, as every year, a good source for further expert considerations as well as for further strengthening the efficiency of the state's attorneyship itself and for possible legislation in terms of change and complementarity. The report shows the movement and structure of crime, an analysis of the application of known and unknown perpetrators, an analysis of the territorial spread of certain types of crime, an analysis of the age structure of the perpetrators, etc. Of course, in addition to the overall recent picture, the images for the 2008 reporting period are an important comparison with the 2007 report for the purpose of taking into account and combating crime and whether it is going well and whether measures are being taken both legitimate and organisationally good results. The report shows that there are slightly less applications in the criminal section than in the previous year. To investigate further whether it is really a reduction of criminality or a new police position that does not report leniency, because in the report of this Attorney's Office, it is in the wrong context that the police are obliged to report all criminal acts and then report them and beauteous, the police are obliged to report all criminal acts, however, in accordance with Article 28 of the Criminal Code there is no criminal offence, it does not exist even if its legal features were achieved, if the act is insignificant in view of the conduct of the perpetrator, his guilt, on... the consequence of the protected good and legal system. Furthermore, whether the reduced number of applications is particularly for minor property-law crimes is the result that citizens often did not get any results in the end, so citizens give up their applications, but this is for a further analysis. What we see is that it's good from this report, which is that the level of urgency of the state's attorney's office, in the criminal act of the state's attorney's office, is being held at that good level, and something improves the average time from the receipt of the application until the decision-making process is two and a half months. Of course there are cases that are solved in a few days, there are objects that are more complex in nature, that require pre-examination, art, then take longer, but the average time of the two-and-a-half months is good. Therefore, to praise the method of the State's attorneyship, which has been conducted since 2004, which is analysed in the State's attorney's office, each subject which lasts for more than 6 months is therefore the reason for whether the objective nature is due to the inaccessibility of suspects, etc., or whether the subjective weaknesses of a particular lawyer or a state lawyer are in line with which measures are taken which resulted in the required urgency. We therefore point out that such measures should also be applied within the state's attorney's office in the civil area of the state's attorney's office and I must point out that such a good example could be taken in another part of the judiciary, for example in courts, in an analysis of any case in which the case was suspended due to the limitation that objective reasons, subjective reasons or no God intended. It is also interesting to analyse the number of rejections in certain types of criminal offences or criminal law chapters, so we can see that the least rejections have in relation to the crimes of general security and traffic security 19%, logically because they are mostly supported by the police by evidence and documentation. And the largest number of rejections relate to crimes against official duty 60%, because they are mainly crimes committed by citizens mostly dissatisfied with the resolution of civil servants in relation to the exercise of their rights, so it is often about applications that are not supported in other documents other than suspicions. And therefore, in the opinion of the State Attorney's Office, and we can join it, means that the faster and more transparent treatment of administrative authorities would remove citizens' doubts of illegal or corrupt behaviour and thus also the general perception of corruption in the country. It is also a sign of information that is repeated on the unequal criminal policy of courts across the country, so that in this sense, the real lawyership should continue to work on initiating the proceedings in order for the Supreme Court to be able to implement its constitutional role in equating judicial practice, so that it does not have to happen again that the legislator has to intervene in such a way as to increase the lower limits, the prohibited penalties, which is not good in criminal policy because the range for individualisation in selecting the type and length of punishment that is definitely necessary but in cases of systematic minimum penalties, then the legislator must assess as useful or less harmful as possible. An interesting further finding of the report on the application of the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes, which is said to be more and more in force in the report, however, is that the Law was adopted in 2003 and means that in the application of more than 5 years, so that, in the State Attorney's report, two or three times in a row in the annual reports, that individual public lawyers, in the event of finding out the basis of the application against a responsible person, do not initiate proceedings against a legal person, notably in the case of a criminal offence which, in the case of a legal person, has obtained an illegal property benefit, the purpose of punishment will be achieved only if that legal person is prosecuted, the legal person is punished and is then taken away from him and thus acquired property benefit. And here I would point out another area in which the findings are also repeated year by year, which is that some state lawyers do not use all legal options to choose the type and the level of criminal sanctions, so they mainly require short-term prison sentences for property delinquents, which unnecessarily burdens the prison system instead of applying probation and secondary fines. So here's what I expect from the next report that we are not repeating the findings, but instead of finding that the report should give us information on whether any measures have been taken in relation to this observed phenomenon in the conduct of the state's attorneys, whether they have produced results and what should be taken. Furthermore, in part of the report we note, which speaks of economic crime, what is particularly important to me is that the increase in the number of evasions, the increase in the number of criminal charges of tax evasion and the criminal offences of economic fraud, which means that state authorities have nevertheless stepped up and started to do their job, which is to report these crimes, and also to the criminal offence of abuse of power in economic business, which also causes damage to the state property and budget, which is particularly interesting here. And the State Attorney's Office has also repeated over several years that in this sense criminal law should be amended in both the material and the process areas. As there have been amendments to the Penal Code in the last few years, so I ask the question, since in every working group for amending the law, the State Attorney's Office has been represented at a very high level, or it is a misunderstanding, because I don't believe it and it certainly isn't so that neither the Ministry nor the Government, nor the Parliament hears these proposals of the State's Attorney's Office or that they don't want to hear them, because it is certainly in the interest of all of us that these crimes are effectively and effectively being processed and that these serious abuses and sanctioned. What we also notice from year to year, and this suggests an increase in the quality of the work of the State's Attorney's Office is that the number of convictions, hence the condemning judgments from year to year, is increasing. This proves and shows that the state, awareness within the State's Attorney's Office or the state's attorneys that it is not enough to just charge them, to charge them with quality, therefore found and succeeded ultimately in the way that success and completed work, a condemning verdict with adequate sanctions was passed. What we also see from this report is that the State's Attorney's Office has started to apply more intensively outside the court's settlement in juvenile delinquency proceedings, where courts are disbursed and the purpose of conducting the proceedings is achieved, the application of the principle of notification under the Law on criminal proceedings and the application of an institute of insignificant crime, leaving to itself both courts and lawyers and police places and capacities to combat significant criminal acts. Similarly, a good organisational measure within USKOK, that USKOK deals only with more significant corruption and organised crime, all of which is easier to leave to regular state attorneys. And finally, compared to civil cases, let me just say that it is clear that the number of lawsuits has dropped, and the number of land-marked cases has increased significantly, indicating that all those legal disputes that the State's attorneys had led from the signed, former government, signed collective agreements that had no coverage, so these proceedings have been conducted for years. I believe that the State's Attorney's Office should have played a more active role in the settlement process. I understand that the state didn't have that money secured by the budget, because it didn't even take on such a commitment, but it could have made deals so that money wasn't spent on lawyers and on tight interest, etc. And finally, because I'm running out of time, as far as I'm concerned, I'm looking forward to this state's attorney's office data that by the end of the year, most of the registered particles will be recorded. However, once again, I call on the State Attorney's Office to take on a more active role in this regard, so to warn the state authorities that, according to the Government's conclusion, have not provided real estate data for the purpose of the book, and that we should all, together, assess whether it is necessary to extend the term of delay of trust in land books from 1.1.2010, because it will be less damage to the state than to insist on this deadline. In the end, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the state's attorney's report due to all these shifts and results that we have said with further work on these civil law cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40719	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40720	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed State Attorney, the esteemed gentlemen of the council. The state's attorney's office often knows, I have the impression, to guess the wishes of politicians in power, as if some sonar had been cited. Especially when it's clear about the rulings. It is true, after 4 years, this case of trucks Mr. Stazic spoke of, when the former prime minister was strong, although President Mesic spoke of it no one went into action, I have the impression only after leaving, or the former prime minister closes the case. Today the case of "Brodosplit", "Podravka", Mr. Marine, etc. is opening. I have the impression that the State's Attorney's Office has often been a marginal one. For example. The HEP administration is not named because of a billion HRK 400 million, how much damage the company has done this year, but because of some Buljujasic and some amount of 600 thousand kuna. It's not HAC's leadership that's been touched by the millions I'm guessing commissions, it's because of some Audi. It doesn't touch anyone because of the crash, ma'am, the boatyard, or I don't know "Brodosplite" but because of some paid account, and if you want to touch nobody because of Lance, it's because of some little thing, I know, about the Supreme. It doesn't touch anyone because of "Zagrebački cesta" but because of the rent-a-cara, it doesn't touch anyone's rent-a-cara or what it's called the foundation of which one member of the underground, under quotes let him figure it out, after which the City of Zagreb dropped the lawsuit but because I know some small things, "Orion" group etc. It's a thing. So for a little bit, the individual is being sued, and then the fact is, we're not. And I'm afraid it's kind of a little bit of a surface-breathing thing, not actually a practice to be. Or a case of "ipislon" in Istria. The state's attorney is being charged because of some necklace of two thousand kuna, I say it's absurd. It's not worth mentioning, but it's worth something else, and that's not what I'm gonna say right now. But that's the way it is. And I don't think it's good, and that effective inaction has got to stop in some way. We're witnessing today, we all see it, we read it, we're taking out this data, we're arresting the work of the Podravka administration headed by Mr. Marine. One heart attack, arrest for the war crimes of seven active Puma employees, where even a gun log or artillery journals were found, etc. So, if these arrests in Podravka, Puma, Brodosplit, etc. It is not a play to discuss the State's Attorney's Office, then it is really a question of what is waiting to be brought in and those without whom, for example, the piling of a "Podravka" or "Brodosplita" would not be possible, and it is about government actors who may be headed by the Croatian octopus. All of us know how that money from the Koprivnica "Poravka" first went towards Split "SMS" there for a day, then went to the accounts in Malta, from Malta to Liechtenstein, and there it would remain until the moment until it should be redirected maybe for buying "Podravka". Or the boatbuilding case, which today was not supposed to be discussed, which "note bene" broke down as well as those who think that Croatian shipbuilding will save foreigners or world hohstapplers, I also think they are suckers. Well, if the foreigners could have saved their own, I mean, the Germans, the French, the English, their shipyards, so they'd have done it in their own country, and they wouldn't have saved ours. So I think that's what needs to be discussed, and I think that these first-round offers should also be answered. I think that someone is still misleading the public, Europe, the institutions of this state, the working parliament as is also true that the total losses of Croatian shipbuilding do not reach 12 but at least 17 billion kuna, but it is true that 12 billion kuna have been shot in shipbuilding since 2006 and the question arises how will this shipbuilding story end up. The story of Croatian radio television which is also mature, I dare say, for a serious reconstruction. It is public, it has a billion kuna budget, it receives a billion and 100 million kuna from a TV subscription, and as such it certainly shouldn't be a party but should be public. We know who they were playing until yesterday, who they're playing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40721	I'm sorry, colleague Cain. I'm sorry. I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40722	But just give me some time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40723	But hold on to the darkness.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40724	Well, I stick to the subject, you know. But I'm asking myself a question if someone in the Department of Spirits calls someone a Chetnik whore, is it perhaps a behavior that makes someone should be able to bear some sequencings?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40725	Wait a minute. My colleague Caine, be kind...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40726	Let's turn on the TV now, and we'll have that report in two days, and then we'll talk about it here. Okay, come on, Mr. Vice President, you keep getting my word...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40727	Well, I'm not breaking in. I'm just...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40728	Yeah, and my time is running out. I'm not going to attack anyone now, but I'm afraid this report is hiding more than it reveals. It turns into a bunch of statistics that's hard to decrypt. Here, it's all turned into numbers but again, on the other hand, fate can't be translated into numbers. Is it possible to represent the work of a state attorney differently, I don't know, but I don't think it's ever been so that this report hasn't seen much. Let's be correct now, let's start with this war crime. From where? Come on from the one committed by the partisans, clearly and it should be sanctioned, there is no mercy here because the pit is not a tomb and every innocent victim deserves to be mourned, rehabilitated, and buried Christianly, but here it is. 24 says: "The preliminary research provides a basis for doubting that the committing of these crimes was ordered from the then military and political summit of the state, but in terms of direct employers, the perpetrators of the research continue to continue in the course of 2009 and so on." On page 23, it is also said of this war crime, and it is said: "Our assessment of war crimes cases will have to continue intensively because the perpetrators have still not been discovered for part of the crimes committed, which is why we are asking the redistributive authorities to engage further in the discovery of the perpetrators." In 2008, 60 people were reported for these activities. 59 persons have been reported for the crime of war crimes against the civilian population, for the crime of war crimes against the prisoners of war, 4 persons, etc. Gentlemen, is this material being treated, like, I'm going to say, tearing down houses by "Storm"? They'll probably tell someone that, or the destruction of houses in areas where no war operations were conducted. For example. In the vicinity of a Bjelovar, Mr. State's Attorney was destroyed at least 600 houses. Who mined them? They were mined by boys in our uniforms, we know that. Why is he keeping quiet about it? Why do these houses hang-a-vise that unfortunate article 180. The mandatory relationship law is not renewed? We all know why that is, but we can see that there's politics here instead of law enforcement. We must put all crimes, especially these war crimes, at the highest level of some priority to normalise relations between the nations in Croatia and among the countries of that unfortunate Balkans. We are just that way, it is not funny, it is not funny, it is not funny, it is the only way we can end this war drama, and that is the only way we can ask them to sanction the crimes they have committed towards the Croatian people, towards the state of Croatia, towards our cities and country as a whole. There's no other way, we have to work clearly the same way, make a living, or what I know, we're gonna exhaust ourselves to fatigue. I know this is why he steps in and attacks me the next day when I get out of this assembly. Never mind. But the thousands of houses I know have been torn down outside the war zones. You know exactly who did it and the state goes through it. Yesterday, seven Puma employees or soldiers were arrested in Puma or an officer, or an officer, anyway. Some Gunnery logs have been found. Is that true? I don't know. If the acts are outdated, I say, normal war crimes don't go out of date, crime against humanity. I know these works won't happen again, but actors at least need to be made known to the public, and houses need to be restored and that story ends once. Crimes against economic crime. We've been given one plate on page 35 so the crimes are dropping, but I'm quoting right here on page 36. "that this shows a large number of rejections for this act, because often in the event of delay, payments are submitted for the purpose of pressuring the debtor to carry out his obligations" etc., etc. So as things get worse, there are even fewer crimes in the matter. Whether or not it works enough, I don't know it now. And second-degree cases, I have the impression that everything is just collapsing. I don't know when we're talking about it. What anyone is going to sue a singer at this point should be saving him absolutely to be with himself in the ambition of some thousand cooperatives. Will someone sue Croatian ministers, as public companies encourage indifference to the extent that the state is collapsing. We'll see what happens tomorrow with the constitutional provision on the non-depreciation of some of the behaviors of the era of conversion and privatisation, although I think we should rather sue those who have designed this "crime" for the people. It doesn't matter what is said in the media today, etc. With whom one Kerum sleeps or who sleeps with him, but that the girl bought the property with the assets of his company, that's another story. As it may be a little bit more serious for this country, if a thousand 500 people are out of work the next day, and it's realistic to expect, and in that one giant is out of a job. Page 45 I quote: "In the structure of the accused persons for receiving bribes, there are three vice-presidents of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, Judge of the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia, municipal state attorney, 9 university professors, 8 doctors, etc. If this adds that, among other things, two municipal court presidents, one of the presidents of the county's, the county's state's attorney, 4 lawyers, are charged with reporting and processing not only so-called. street corruption." Page 61. This is about the total value of litigation cases or disputes that we had in the paper on representing the foundation of the law, there were around $12.5 billion, which is half a billion more than in 2007. In total, there were slightly more than 3.5 million kunas, meaning that cca 650 million kuna is more than 2007. etc., etc. I'm afraid that based on that as a state, we're going to lose about 50% of that amount, so somewhere around 4 to 5 billion kuna. I ask myself, where will 4 to 5 billion kunas of money be provided in the budget? Of course no one should call a state attorney because of that, absolutely not. But that is one serious problem that one day someone in this country will have to deal with. And those who create such obligations that later in court fall, should be clearly and unequivocally prosecuted. It is further said here that the total value of the dispute or the level of claim against the Republic of Croatia as a defendant was 8.3 billion kuna, slightly less than in 2007, when the value of the disputes in which we were sued was 8.5 billion kuna. This shows that the reason for the increase in the value of litigation cases is found in the fact that the Republic of Croatia is starting to actively and through litigation procedures, that is to say, protect its property interests. I want to believe that in the end, that's how it's gonna be. But as other opposition clubs will not support this year's 2008 report on the work of the state's attorney, so he does not intend to support the IDS club either. And let me just say how it is, for example. Finally, it looks. For example. Yesterday, I read some information that now the interest obligations of the state of Croatia have to do to some credit, to subscribe to foreign lenders. They began to exceed 9.10.11%. Even above what our Croatian banks clearly cannot do, they can give domestic legal persons or the state of Croatia. And this is largely the consequences of these corrupt behaviors that this report on the work of the state's attorney. There are some reasons why the IDS Club will not support the 2008 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40729	Thank you. Two corrections to incorrect allegations. First Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Apparently, a colleague was talking about some 600 houses, apparently. I mean, you're completely untrue and you don't even know what you're talking about. You haven't even read this report. What houses are you talking about? Who took them down? You mean Croatian soldiers. Absolutely not. And half of what he was saying is incorrect, because he didn't read the report at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40731	And Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40732	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Honored colleague Cain. Because of your one-sided display, I'm correcting incorrect allegations. ... These same ones that my colleague Carmela now said, that not those who brought down 600 in the vicinity of Bjelovar were being processed, I guess they were thinking of Bilogora, which I know where you think it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You didn't specify the exact location. But you didn't also specify that they weren't processed destroyers of Cells or burners to say that they weren't processed destroyers of Berk, Voćin, Slavonski Brod, Chetekovac, Balinac. You always forget that. That's why I'm correcting you. .../ The intruder doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40733	Club of representatives of HDSSB Mr. Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40734	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We all got in our materials one such beautifully bound report from the State's Attorney's Office in 2008. I believe most of you have read it. You can see that there is statistics itself and it is generally known if you want to hide something you do not want to go into the depth of things, it is simply easy to hide behind numbers that speak all mathematically and say nothing that should interest the Croatian public. I'm telling you that if we went behind these numbers a little bit more thoroughly, if we looked at matter, we'd see who in the last year in Croatia, say, stole some kind of chicken or some other petty offense of some anonymous people who didn't have any political protection behind them to avoid prosecution. These are cases that fill this statistic and give the impression that the state's attorney's office has done a great job in the past year. Mr. State's Attorney just before he replicated fellow Stazic says please don't tie me and the State's Attorney's office to politics. I even thought for a moment that I was wrong and that it wasn't my understanding that it was good for the state's attorney to appoint a Parliament. Then I remembered four years ago and seven years ago that this Croatian Parliament had chosen a state lawyer, that it had given him confidence and that it was nothing but a policy chosen by Ivica Racan and SDP with him at the head of the then coalition and four years ago Ivo Sanader with HDZ and his coalition partners. So it's even funny to talk from his position. Don't get me involved in politics, I've got nothing to do with politics. You are Mr. Bajic's policy man, and politics has led you to this position, and to me it's the only explanation why you have listened to the call of politics during these seven years of your work in the first place. Also, I have to admit that you're a skilled media manipulator, that you're always hiding behind the police or behind the court, if something didn't happen to you, it's the guilty police who didn't do the investigation and delivered it to you. If you accidentally file some kind of unquality lawsuit and fall into court, then it's the court's fault that there's some kind of judge sitting there who can't wait to get some kind of political-protected person out of guilt. You're like a layman. I'm asking you what the state's attorney's office is doing to us if that's the case. Your work can do Croatian post office and let's say the "City Express" which is a private company to carry these files from the Ministry of Interior and Police when they are processed to court. Because I don't understand what the role of the state's attorney's office is if all the work is done by the police and ultimately by the Croatian court. Also, one of the things that's called an argument for what I've been saying about your name is politics and your professional career. During the time you were a military prosecutor in Split, we all remember those processes that we led as a state against the rebels or members of the enemy army, and you then filed charges in the Croatian courts and condemned the rebel Serbs for war crimes at the premises of the Republic of Croatia. There is a different climate in Croatia today, more calls from the European Union are being listened to. There was often a friend of yours, Carla Del Ponte, who came here today from your new job and the same Serbs that were in the 93rd, 94th year, in the early 1990s accused of war crimes, calling again on the Croatian court, however this time as witnesses to burden Croatian defenders in various processes where Croatian defenders are convicted of war crimes against the Serb population. They were then armed rebels and war criminals, today unarmed civilians and victims of the Croatian Army and Croatian defenders. I'd look back on these bad results in recovery and doing something against crime in conversion and privatisation. I mention this because it is just the current change of the Croatian Constitution where the Demagogical Constitution wants to install a part that says there is no statute of limitations in crime regarding conversion and privatisation. Oh, please, 17, 18, 19 years have passed since that criminal act that happened in the early 1990s. We haven't had enough time for 17, 18 years to solve it and now we're putting it in the Constitution like, if we were 25 or 30 years old, somebody would be responsible for what he did at the time. And there were no results, although we remember that the work of the audit was carried out and that many companies found in the revision of things that were wronged and done contrary to the law of the Republic of Croatia and that many people at that time acquired companies that had no basis or material resources but in one criminal and illegal way. They're also not people who don't have any financial supplies today. Less has been helped by various parties, so it is normal for these people to have their own kind of political protection, and that is probably the biggest reason why they were neither the police nor the state’s attorney’s office until today. I personally believe that this matter will pass into the Croatian Constitution, that it will not be obsolete and I also don't believe that something will change about solving this problem, possibly when this generation of ours retires, so maybe tomorrow in 5 or 10, 15 years some other generation will come to deal with these things more. I personally doubt what happened that way. I would also mention here that Croatia's policy has managed in some way to bind the Ministry of the Interior where the interior minister is already standing, the director of police who are political persons, although this should not be tied up with the state's attorney's office where he also staffs, places a person, works with influence in court. So, if the case is properly directed in court, it comes to the right judge's hand it can be mixed as a dough and that judgment can be like this or whatever the evidence in the case is. This was a feature of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, as well as of the MUP and part of the judges in 2008 in our country. I must also point out that part of the work of the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of the Interior has taken over a part of the media in the Republic of Croatia, journalists and media that are not under the patronate of any political option. It's what they get, what they get by some kind of secret channels, they don't want to be published, and that's how they do it in front of the state's attorney's investigation. We can also list different cases of "Brodosplit", "Ply" in which even stopped selling "Plive" that stopped being written about. "Podravka" which is currently here today, strangely coincided with the State's Attorney's Office's report that former managers are arrested in the morning. The truck affair after five years, here's the same few days before this report. "Constructor" which is less and less written about, and football club "Hyduk" from the city where the state's attorney came from, where a big robbery was committed, and it's acidified in someone's drawer. I could count for days. These are all items that are not present in this report. The fact is that SDP appointed Mr. Bajic and this furniture to the State's Attorney's Office, but it is also the fact that by changing the political power of Mr. Bajic to say so, he found a new owner. The boss is gone today. All those deals he had with Eve Sanader can't say they weren't worth it, but they're worth a lot less than when he was prime minister. There has been no self-suppression in these past seven years, or four years. I know that there have also been fingertips by Ivo Sanader in certain people by giving the first hand to the Ministry of the Interior, as well as to Mladen Bajic who is desirable in this country to process. If he didn't do anything by accident, it shouldn't be a problem, because the authorities' institutions are very broad, the state power, the repressive apparatus is very strong. It can simply be very easy to make mistakes especially with the support of certain state media that are also bound to this conspiracy can lead to what is desired. I'd like to give you an example because I was a witness. At the time, I was a member of the HDZ. This is the husband of our colleague Gordana Sobol Bojan Sobol in whom Ivo Sanader pointed his finger, the mechanism was quickly launched and he quickly ended up in court to purchase 17 carpets against the tender. What I'm saying is, in fact, it's denying that Mr. Bajic is charging anyone from the top of the state. You can see he's having an affair, that he's sometimes also senior officials of the Croatian government. Mr. Sobol was charging for those 17 carpets. Unfortunately, his and those who imagined this, Mr Sobola, the Croatian court, despite political pressures, freed these radical indictments, which was filed in December of the arrival of the Croatian Democratic Community to power. Now I would mention another object in which I have a much better insight because I followed it from beginning to end. It's Mr. Glavas' case. Unfortunately, he had no luck as Mr. Sobol to have his case in hand to a judge who was willing to resist political pressure. This judge was in no condition to do so. Today our situation is what it is. Branimir Glavas is unjustly, innocently sentenced to 10 years in prison. I've been following this process since the beginning of all the investigations, the investigation, and I've listened to the whole process in the hallway and the courtroom, and I know how it went in the first place, and what the Department of the Interior was then Chief of Police Faber and mentioning the gentleman who is today reporting what they've been doing and doing in order to press charges against Branimir Glavas and that on the orders of Eve Sanader. Only three witnesses from several hundred heard are Branimir Glavas' cargo. He's the first Mr. Fehir to change his testimony six times, and I know for a fact that he went to a briefing at the State's Attorney's Office. They were briefing him for not being in accordance with the law on what to say and how to present that science-fiction story they wrote in the indictment. However, since it did not spell out everything as they imagined he had even six times had to change his testimony by refuting himself every next statement. Another witness was Gordana Gettos Magdic, who also changed several times, who was brought to the police in Osijek, and Mr Bajic also did not know what legal basis for it on several occasions received her father in the State's Attorney's office to burden Branimir Glavas' daughter, and he promised that Gordana would serve only two years, that he would take care of it and that he would come out afterwards. She was one woman who was not used to such pressures, and after a few days she was blackmailed, and with her child she agreed to this development, falsely burden Branimir Glavas. She called Bajic. It was all said in the testimony of these men in court. However, Mr. Bajic did not even have enough for him, but in the end, he also cheated on Gordan Gettos Magdic. She's in Croatian prison today. He's got eight years in prison. If everything is true, what Mr. Bajic said is that the Croatian police are doing and investigating and in front of the investigation, from where he is entitled to receive his father on several occasions and on several occasions the lawyer who is now present in front of the Court of Honor of the Bar Association, and that he is guessing whether his daughter is going to jail, is willing to falsely charge Branimir Glavas and that he offers services to the Croatian judiciary to any person for the false charge of another. The third witness is a protected witness. The whole country's saying it's the "Imitation of God" from Osijek. At first, I was skeptical that it was him, because I know that at the time of the war he wasn't even around. However, two weeks after Branimir's sentence to Glavas, Ivica Zbožl, who was convicted of economic crime for a year, was released, or pardoned, and all sins were forgiven. Then I realized that all those people who convinced that Ivica Zbožl was a protected witness I believed that and I believe that his salary for this false testimony he had even though everyone in the department knew that he was nowhere near the scene during the war was rewarded by not going to Croatian prison. Here, now you know the way he was convicted, accused and convicted Branimir Glavas. And I have to warn you and the Croatian public, because according to this recipe, it can be me tomorrow, but the truth can be any one of you. .../ Intruder Shakespeare, please finish. If we keep staring at other people's fates, at these moves of the state's apparatus, when it comes to you, believe me, others will behave like you and not raise their voice in your protection. So I ask you once again to consider this report and I would suggest that you don't support it as well as my club, because it just didn't deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40735	Thank you. SDSS counseling club, Mr. Representative. ... And I'm sorry, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Explanation, attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40736	I must respond to this position by the representative of HSBB. I agree with the finding introduced by the esteemed representative that he is a layman. It's obvious from his exposure I have to admit, because what he said is absolutely not true. I allow his court of law to say that we are a political organization, a party, etc. It's all his right to say it, but I have to say it's not true and it's not true. The state's attorney's office as a whole, and I've personally never been influenced by any politician, neither, and I'm responsible for that. As far as lunching is concerned, it is inadmissible for anyone in this country, including the Croatian Parliament, to talk about the unlawful verdicts of the Croatian court, because the penal law of the Republic of Croatia, which you have adopted here, prohibits it. He forbids it from everyone. It is inadmissible to analyse an inadmissible verdict in such a way as was done by an esteemed representative. I have to warn you because I owe it to you, while I'm a state attorney. On the other hand, the findings spoken in relation to my work during the time and while I was deputy military prosecutor in Split are, at the very least, ridiculous, Mr. Honorable Representative, because the military prosecutor could not prosecute anyone other than members of the Croatian War Crimes Army, because it was not in his jurisdiction. I have proof of that. It's the law that was in force at the time. Therefore, your meal is ridiculous at least, not to speak unfounded. Second. As deputy state attorney, and then and now, I've worked exclusively by law, and based on the facts, evidence that was available in the files. And once again I say manipulation in the media and transfer of responsibility to the police and courts I have never worked on, I have never worked in the Croatian Parliament, I have just expressed the facts that we in the State's Attorney's Office have in mind and where I am talking about the system's imperfection in certain parts, including the State's attorney's office, which should be corrected with the help of the Croatian Parliament and the change of the legislative frameworks, as you discuss every day in the Croatian Parliament, and in what direction we have certain indications, etc., from the European Commission, and not any policy influence. So I categorically refuse such insinuations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40737	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Agent Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40738	I see you've been struck by my speech. But I'd say, I'm only going to make one thing right, which means the influence of politics on you. I'll give you my personal example of what I didn't say about the pay phone. In 2000, as a member of HDZ, I was director of Radio Djakova until 2000. After that, a case was filed against me, or even an indictment was filed. Behind that was the late Željko Malevic and after coming to power, we called you from HDZ, I explained to you, you said there was pressure from the SDP to start it. You told me to file a complaint with the State's Attorney's office on your behalf. I wrote it and within 15 days the procedure was suspended.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40739	Wait, wait, that's not how it works. It doesn't work like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40740	There's a written clue to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40741	We'll give another explanation to the state's attorney. Word for explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40742	I think it's unacceptable to expose an esteemed representative like this. That's not true, Mr. Representative. It's just not true. Show all these written clues in public, go ahead. I'm behind it. It's unacceptable for you to have this kind of meal compared to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40743	Leave it to us, State's attorney, with the permission or inaccessibility. Another correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40744	And this time you expect me to do your job. You've got everything on you in the archives. I've got copies. You're all set up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40745	Okay. Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac, president of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40746	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, after this debate, we come to a very critical point in which we are discussing the measurement of reports or certain parts of the criteria of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia's report, in which, therefore, by approaching certain criteria of the State's Attorney's Office's report for the past year, we are actually coming to ourselves, i.e. to the Croatian Parliament. And the Croatian Parliament should, by definition, prevent not only the failure of state institutions or their abuse, but would have to prevent their destruction. And you would have to do everything to further devastation and destruction of institutions in Croatia, which are in many places fragilely beginning to do so from this very place. In that sense, I will in some way change the initial intention that I had when I was preparing for this debate on behalf of the Single Democratic Serb Party club, because it would really come to us very quickly. And we'd get to the point where we're not actually discussing the State's Attorney's Office, the Ministry of the Interior, or the Ministry of Justice. It's about us. Because we're a legislative body. And each of us would have to ask himself a question, every club and every representative who swore to the Croatian Constitution to what extent he contributed to his political action, his political conduct of legality in the Republic of Croatia, and that primarily means supporting the work of judicial institutions. That seems to be the key question. Not whether it has influence and whether it is trying to influence the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Of course it does. There was a lot of him, and now there's probably a little less of him, let's hope, the unauthorized one. There is one that is allowed, and these are changes in the political climate and changes in political circumstances both in the parties and in the public. So the one where the space for the smooth work of state institutions and judicial institutions is opened. In which it is no longer possible to cover something and to hide something and prevent professionalism in people who are willing to conduct professionalism, and there are certainly those in the Croatian judiciary and there are certainly those in the Croatian police. Let us ask ourselves how much we have contributed to these professional people being able to do their job, and how much, in fact, did we give direct or indirect support to those who neither know it nor want to do it? In that sense, this report by the State's Attorney's Office last 2008 is neither better nor worse than the 2007 or 2006, technically it is the same. In some ways, he's slightly improved because he has a certain number of conclusions. If it were done to some extent that I would like to see inside it, it would also be some sort of analysis of what needs to be done, for example. That the percentage of unknown perpetrators for crimes is still 41%. 34 thousand 760 cases refer to unknown perpetrators and the perpetrators are unknown. I would like this report and joint action by the police and other types of investigative bodies to tell us what is causing this fact of unknown perpetrators. Insufficient cooperation with the institutions of the judiciary and the police? Insufficient training of cops and state attorneys or something? But it's an absolutely high number, colleagues and colleagues. So we are not individual EU countries in whose parts there is a vow not to talk about it. If we are, then we should say, if there are such environments in which we are not working sufficiently with the institutions of the judiciary in which segments we should say so. Then it's our duty to change that, but 41% of the unknown perpetrators are absolutely too high a percentage. I'd like to say I'd like to see an analysis of the state's attorney's office in the annual reports why is that and what seems to change that? Secondly, last year, there was an increase in the share against life and body. This is seen in this report, but what is not seen is proposals that should be put together, synergy by joint action by the police and courts, taken together with other institutions, say social institutions, to prevent it. Then I would consider this report better than last year, but it's not worse than last year. And now I'd like to say a few things about certain areas in the report itself. As far as discrimination is concerned, on a racial or otherwise basis, Article 174 of the Criminal Code, only 4 persons. They were against them by the State's Attorney's Office, and we all know that there are certainly many more people in Croatia who participated in this. Whether because people refused to accept to work because of other nationalities, or because in public places they were shouting out messages threatening members of other nationalities or calling for intolerance to members of other nationalities. There's a mechanism of official duty. And in a number of places, this mechanism of official duty should have been activated by county or municipal state attorney's offices, and it wasn't. What I'd like to say here isn't because people still don't have the guts to do it. Because by any chance at the concert of Leprechaun or Halid Beslic, someone sent a similar message as he puts on some other concerts, there is no doubt the same night, Mr. State Attorney, but there are some who are privileged in this regard and then there is no activity under official duty. Why don't you tell us why that is? Secondly, when it comes to war crimes trials, I can't wait for a day to get individual cases for which the people concerned will have complete satisfaction and a sense of justice, but for now we're still not in the area. Unfortunately, we are not in this area because we are just coming out of the campaign period and campaign approach to war crimes trials in which, as you say, today because of the course of time and the higher level of professionalism, the evidence is harder to collect than the times when time has not passed, when professionalism has been minimal and when the campaign has been run by a broad hand. If by any chance in those times of which you were not a state lawyer in one part, we would pay attention to organised crime of conversion and privatisation instead of paying attention to what we have to do today, Mr. State's Attorney, your reports on corruption and organised crime today would look different, and our picture of the EU is equally different. But we didn't do it, we were giving some kind of cover to talk about things that are certainly important for this country, but they're not important in that place, they're not important in those people who should be, but they're free to say, those who were victims of war circumstances themselves, and we weren't committed to what life depends on today and what tomorrow depends on us. And in that sense, it seems to me, and that's what I said to the Human Rights Committee, and I know from experience that unfortunately we still haven't standardized war crimes trials in the State's attorney's office. In some cases, he is tried not only for the deprivement of life, whether of war prisoners, whether of civilians, but also for the destruction of property, for the abuse and insult and for the purpose of persecution, and in some only for the deprivement of life and under difficult conditions of proof, and thousands of houses have been destroyed, alienated property, destroyed hundreds of settlements are not tried for it. There's no standard for that. I'm not saying Mr. State's Attorney that it's your responsibility. I think it's both my responsibility and the ones we're sitting here because we haven't made any assumptions for that to change. But what we'd like to hear is that you say, unfortunately, we haven't created those standards yet. I'll give you an example that is well-known to you, when it comes to the fees for the trials that some people have to pay now because they've made sure that the courts can make fair judgments for them, decided that because of the loss of the lives of family members in Novska, Sisak, Karlovac, I'll only list some places, start court proceedings, and then lose them because the crime happened in the war but it wasn't a war crime. And there's no evidence that these or those members did it. Although the public conversation clearly shows who did it. And now instead of protecting these people in a sense of justice and justice, they must today be left without their own house or left without their pension, because they must pay lost fees for court costs. The same applies of course to those houses in Zadar, the 80 that are announced to be removed because they pose a danger to the safety of citizens. And we know there was a period of danger to the safety of the people in them. But that's not the danger we're taking care of today. And obviously we have no intention of keeping an eye on him. In the end, Mr. State Attorney, I am deeply convinced that your sacred duty, holy in terms of swearing to the law that we have sworn here, is to protect the property of Croatia, as a state. A quick booklet on agricultural land in areas from which many people have escaped or because of which circumstances cannot live on islands is certainly not the most common thing this country has. It seems to me that it is much more difficult to protect the budget of this state, and I understand that as the financial property of this state, to see what is actually going on with public enterprises and their financial assets. Given the legitimate doubts and warnings that this state property, and the budget is state property, is unfortunately not protected. Unfortunately, there are no mechanisms for how to protect them. We would like Mr. State's Attorney to tell us not only in view of the facts that have been made, but in view of your and our obligation, what you intend to do is to finally begin to protect yourself. I'll talk about other questions on another occasion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40747	Thank you. Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40748	Dear Mr. Vice President, Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. For the reasons that Mr Pupovac has now stated, and from what is in the report of our Committee on Human Rights, as well as in the report of the parent board, where it says that the situation is much better than the citizens' opinion, we have decided today to give up the classical presentation of the club's position on this report and we have decided here to state the position of Croatian citizens who have appeared to us and probably many of you in the past few days, related to this report and to tell you what the citizens think and whether the situation is really much better than those citizens think. Let's get this straight. Namely, I'll make two cases, two observations, two opinions and two questions. I gave up some details, because Mr. Stazic was already talking about it, so I'll leave these questions out here so we don't have to repeat ourselves needlessly. Person A tells us. In my company, I discovered the crimes committed by those persons. And what did I do? I went with copies of these materials to the State's Attorney's office and handed them over to the lady's clerk who ransacked them. She said good. Everything was complete, everything is very clear what you wanted us to do. He says it's only a big shame, says person A, that you didn't prepare it in two copies. This is how you put me in a situation where I have to copy everything, because we have to send one copy, I think she told the police. Person A takes that file, goes to the first photocopy, photocopies that material, returns and neatly surrenders two copies now. Is that a banal case or a boastful and rude case? Make your own decisions. The other person who contacted us was the director of the municipal company... and she warned on the Municipal Council of certain failures and crimes related to the construction of a sports hall. Afterwards, she received her report, where she was obliged as director to warn, of course she was fired. Croatian way of solving such things. After she got fired, she collected complete documentation, all the evidence, because she had all the evidence, went to the state's attorney's office, handed over all that material, all the evidence. So, God doesn't need to know what kind of investigation, you just need to verify the credibility of the evidence that she brought to the State's Attorney's Office. It's been less than two years ever since. Nothing's been done. The report I have standing before me. In criminal cases, the average time between the receipt of the application and the decision being taken by the State Attorney's Office is reduced to 2.5 months. And worst of all, we're getting data that girls from one of these institutions, if they had even been suspended at the time of the local elections, so it doesn't have a clear impact on these elections. It is absolutely unacceptable and the question is whether or not citizens should trust what the DORH is doing, eventually all of us. Then, citizen observation. A gentleman I personally spoke to in Rijeka two days ago when we discussed the work of the State's Attorney's Office, I said that we would have this report and ask him to state his position, that I would present whatever he considers necessary. He says, Mr. Doric, it is evident that the affairs are closing over time. He tells me citizens no longer have any idea what happened to Sunny Hvar, Liburnia Riviera Hotels, and Maester. Time obviously has a function of oblivion, abandoning something of the past, etc. It's inadmissible, it happens, and we citizens are really very confused about it. The next person we contacted says this way, please feel free to say that even we ordinary citizens already realize that certain activities of the DORH are being stepped up in one-year cycles related to the preparation of the European Commission's report and possibly your debate on the report on the work of the DORH. That's what citizens already notice. He says last year it was the Index action, this year it's the trucks, the Podravka, etc. Whoever's wrong, who's got sand in his eyes. That's absolutely unconvincing. That it always fits in that same period and those cycles. Then, one commented on the lack of political will, it keeps repeating itself these days. He says no, please don't say that for God's sake, say exactly my point. The citizen says, "There is a very strong political will to maintain the status quo, that nothing changes, that nothing happens, that everything is done as before.", therefore, an extremely strong political will. Furthermore, the person tells us: "If journalists can find out what's going on in HEP, in INA, in Podravka, SMS, of Shore companies, Cyprus, Malta, Liechtenstein, why can't it be the people of the law, the police, the people of USKOK, it's the question why they can't do it. Why do journalists have to do a job we expect someone else to do?". The Human Rights Committee discussed difficulties in processing war crimes suspects, Mr. Pupovac spoke of one aspect of what they discussed. I would just like to warn you colleagues and colleagues that they are preparing indictments, investigative proceedings, the calling of international warrants, the requests for extradition, the explanation of these demands are essentially happening in a triangle between the DORH, the MUP and the Ministry of Justice. The question for Mr. Bajic is how many times did the most responsible people dealing with the issue of war crimes in the DORH, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice find themselves coordinating their activities between 2001 and 2008. I know the answer. You probably know him, too, because I have a memo that went around in that triangle trying to change something in those eight years. If you don't have that memo, I'll send it to you. The second question is, in some affairs, they are suspected of criminal acts and of the people of the DORH. It seems to me that in Rijeka it was recently. The question of citizens is, "What does the DORH do to prevent such cases from happening?". There can't be any in the DORH. Do you have any space and personnel if you can team DORH to people who will not clearly embarrass the system and clearly in which citizens will trust. Here, so it's a weekly review of what we've been getting in the last few days. We have individuals like that on the phone every day or on the street, they stop us. So I wonder if the situation is really better than what the citizens think, or maybe it's exactly what the citizens think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40749	Thank you. Ms. Mariana Petir's club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40750	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. State Attorney. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the report submitted by the State Attorney to the Croatian Assembly by making certain progress through this report, but we must say that we at the HSS Club expect much more from the work of the entire State Attorney's Office. The constitutional role of the attorney-general is to act independently and independently against the perpetrators of criminal offences and to act for the purpose of protecting the Constitution and property of the Republic of Croatia. This is why the public often has their eyes in the state's attorney because he thinks it's exactly up to him whether we're going to live in an orderly, human and legal state. I'd say it's only partly true because I think what kind of state we're going to live in is up to all of us, not just the attorney general. Of course, public expectations are justified for the state's attorney to independently and independently investigate and initiate processes against all those who have materially damaged us and who have morally humiliated us. The public and our citizens expect a guarantee that violence, crime and dishonesty will not pay off. In the countries of the European Union we often call upon is a regular practice of persecuting the most powerful people in the country if they are in the hole in crime and corruption. Of course, it requires courage and determination, and surely the function of a state attorney is one of the key roles in that segment. In our case, successes and failures of institutions are assessed through the action of one person and not the entire system, and we see it through a series of examples. However, we must say that the statistics shown in the report show that progress has been made in the work of the State Attorney's Office, that in criminal cases the average time from the receipt of the application to the decision taken by the State's Attorney's office has been reduced to below two and a half months, and that the total number of pending applications is less than one-third of the quarterly inflow of new applications. It is certain that further work should retain the trend of improving awareness, with particular attention to those cases in which applications have not been resolved in a long time, as this is one of the essential preconditions for the right to make a court decision within a reasonable period of time. So, as I said, the situation is not ideal, it can certainly be better, and I'm going to back up a concrete example where we at the HSS Club see that the role of the State's Attorney's Office must be stronger. Because we consider Mr. State's Attorney that what the media publishes in the papers is also to be considered a registration and that this should be followed. I agree, I think that fellow Stazic, on behalf of the club of representatives, said he expects the State's Attorney's Office to be more effective in fighting corruption especially against large-scale fish at the top of the policy, so I will set an example here. This is already a well-known example in Sisak-Moslavina County, all about the letter, and we also wrote representatives of Mr. State's Attorney to you because we were contacted by employees of the county, we were approached by citizens who provided us with bills and orders from which it is evident that the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County spent only two days on the national team of 120000 kuna and that it is justice by the arrival of a high official. And believe me, I've met a man, I've even done his campaign, and I know he can't eat in two days for 120,000 kuna. According to public talks and statements by persons from the professional services and the county, those funds are not spent on what they are shown for. In fact, they were spent as reported in those reports and allegations of a wedding held in Sisak in April. With this described by Mayor Marina Lovric's actions, she committed a crime of abuse of office and purposelessly spent the County's funds of around 120,000 kuna. Mr. State's Attorneys, according to my knowledge, have delivered documents and I would like you to inform us in your final address if you have done anything about it. In fact, it is a public secret that these over-inflated accounts are being covered up and we believe that such a way of working should be investigated by the competent state authorities. And since all the orders were signed by Ms. Mayor Lovric, it is clear what it is. In these accounts, it is evident that Mrs. Lovric bought 1,500 eggs at the expense of the county, that she was buying scented salt for bathing, fine and expensive wines, cognacs of 180 kuna. So I wonder if maybe that money was really needed to make Sisak-Moslavina County a confectionery or an inn because at the same time the funds for incentives for farmers are being abolished, at the same time the funds for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs are being abolished, and at the same time imagine there is no means to transport students. But on the other hand, he's got money, he's got something to do with it. Because they're not lazy, the mayor has appointed a council and that's no less than 13 advisors greater than the one the president of the state has. The advice monthly by taxpayers to one of the poorest counties costs 100000 kuna, with each adviser receiving 5000 kuna net. What is interesting is how money and corruption do not know the borders is that on August 11th of this year, a special advisor was appointed by a man who was a circuit judge, whom members of the current partner in HSP county government persistently called in the past because of his role in the Homeland War. In the present, love blooms. They cooperate together, and share a monthly fee of 5000 kuna for counselling. It is because the public has no idea what they advise the mayor about because none of that advice has been publicly maintained. They settled down on the council and escaped the pensioners as I've called them from a mile away. They are likely to be bought, though, because there are also record companies in the number of board members of the County Assembly and the administrative councils of institutions and companies owned by Sisak-Moslavina County. One is a member of as many as seven committees, imagine that, and the other at least four. For individual membership they receive 500 kuna per session so it is easy to calculate how a member of HSU if each board and council meet only once a month gets 3 and a half thousand kuna net, and for membership in the council another 5,000 kuna net. But what they do we don't know. That's why I'd like to see here that Mr. Jovanovic is present, but he is an extremely agile president of the National Anti-Corruption Council. I would ask him and your state attorney to really consider what the public is talking about, which is what the employees of Sisak-Moslavina County are asking for and warning because this is about an example of political corruption and corrupt employment in Sisak-Moslavina County. Namely, there are 20 people in the county who are employed in a work contract, so now the leaders have been ordered to fire those 20 who have always worked in the county, to put them on the list and to fire them. Those leaders who refused to do so received a lower salary and a threat of dismissal. It is also interesting that the county organizes a series of events in this crisis, of which there are no major results, but in the organization of all these manifestations in an indirect or direct way the mayor's husband is involved, so I would also ask you to examine that part. And what is most interesting, however, is that obviously love is being marketed and bought is a decision on a donation signed directly by the mayor without competitions and commissions, a decision on a donation to promote development and promotion of hunting in hunting grounds No 3/30 Zrinska Gora 1 in 2009. Which means the president of the association is HSP President of Sisak-Moslavina County Željko Kardaš, who for raising his hand for the SDP mayor, has won the post of president of the Assembly, and now also a decent fee of 105,000 kuna. These are just details that I mentioned here about how a high political official works and I don't think anyone should be excluded from the work of the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK and the Ministry of the Interior. And I expect you to see this, Mr. State's Attorney if from so far's performances and applications, you haven't seen the articles so far as to report this as the application of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and if you need any more materials, you can get them. Social calling, calling politicians, is certainly one of the most difficult, i.e. difficult, painful and difficult calls. It assumes a solid provision in this area and a firmness of personal importance in private and then in public life. A politician must know the advantages and traps of various political systems as well as that none is perfect and in the worst system a good man can do good, and also in the best system a bad man can do evil. Nevertheless, he should be aware that, with the sins of individuals and groups, they too exist. The structure is wrong. It doesn't make time for people, now it's time, people make time. Although she has her own meaning, she has another proverb that makes a thief. The severe pressure of the environment can only be resisted by those who are stronger in virtue, and those who are not Mr. State's attorneys become, as I mentioned, the subject of your actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40751	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40752	Honored Mr. Vice President, I understand Article 214 injured, which means when a speaker does not stick to the topic under discussion. I can understand the frustration of Ms. Marijane Petir with the success of the work of the Mayor Marine Lovric, but for this very reason I would ask you to give a warning that it would not happen to repeat these stories, which means that it is not sticking to the subject. This is the topic of the state's attorney's office's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40753	Peace, please! Same archaic for everyone. When on behalf of one club, the first club was burned by one representative, then he mentioned different cases that were only somewhere in the form of Maestro, Brodosplit, from politicians who gave protection to a state attorney or a state lawyer who held the stand, to various possible cases, then it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and there was no holding the subject. The theme is very broad. Therefore, in the context of a very broad topic, this cannot be considered to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Two corrections to incorrect allegations. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40754	It is incorrect that Ms. MP argued that Marina Lovric would commit a criminal offence, as this is still worth the provision under our law that such a finding and such a claim can only be determined by the court in the legal proceedings. Besides that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40755	It's good, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40756	That's funny here. And that's what you're saying about this subject. The lady here was hitting on some eggs, some cheap cognac, and on this very serious one, I would say the most serious subject, where political disqualification is done here over this topic that should be a political couple of excellence, if the idea is to reach an absolute independent judiciary and judicial authority as a whole. And here you are throwing eggs at each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40757	My colleague Ingrid, no one's been hitting on their balls. I listened carefully, I didn't see any eggs fly. No egg was in the air. There weren't any eggs in the air. And Mr. Representative Slavko Linic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40758	I'm correcting MP Petyr in the part where she pointed out that all these 10-minute allegations are public. That's not true. That's what Ms. Mariana Petrir is talking about, which is what she's telling the media about, and she's suggesting a solution to the state's attorney. Therefore, your right to do so, but do not say that there is a public behind you. That's an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40759	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40760	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have reported all three cases for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I would like to say that I pointed out Mrs Ingrid, according to public talks and statements from the county's professional services, that Mrs Lovric committed a criminal offence. She actually bought a thousand 500 eggs, your party president has all her accounts, and I'm going to photocopy them for you. And I'm sorry, Mr. Ostojic, if you consider the SDP mayor's behaviour successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40761	Mr. Ostojić has the same word.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40762	I'll use it again... 14th cannot say which article is injured. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] You must know to ask to say which article was injured. That's exactly why you had to give a warning earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40763	I was wrong. I regret that I did not ask Commissioner Marijana Petir to immediately appoint an article, as you have immediately appointed an article from the first time you said you had broken the Rules of Procedure. So much for eggs. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40764	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. What would the fight against economic crime, abuse of power, the situation in Croatia look like if we were discussed at least once a month in a report by the state's attorney's office? I think in two to three years, we'd have taken that problem off the agenda, and that the chapter of the judiciary... wouldn't be a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. State's Attorney. I'm trying to talk to Mr. Bajic, so I'll wait for him to finish the conference.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40765	He listens with one ear, you go ahead. He's listening to you. I see he's listening to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40766	Mr. Bajic, when it comes to anti-corruption affairs or cases and cases of abuse of authority and position, a year ago, analyzing what you have been doing further towards the judiciary, I now feel free to suggest that you and your colleague Cvitan, the head of USKOK, at least one year each month give half of your salary to journalists. I recommend that you make payments to the jury of the Croatian Journalist Society. Why? You said, you wrote and several times repeated the State's Attorney's Office is not the body of the investigation, it's not, it can't just, it's not the body of discovery. I know that. Unlike some of me, that's clear. So we have you and UskoK, and then we've established inside the police some kind of police BOOK, jumping courts, intelligence services that also deal with this part of the job, there's a special administration or department of economic crime, state audit, state commission to control public procurement procedures, a parliamentary national anti-corruption council where you often visit. In the government, the second body has already been anti-corruption-based. Then there's the media and the citizens. Of everything I've listed, 80% of the cases, except for "Maestra" that the media before you are not principles, were first in the media for a week, two, three, but most often four months, and then it went from you to the judiciary. What's the problem? Seeing the conclusions at the end of your report I expected, and today you said you needed help from the Croatian Parliament if I understood you correctly? So, I expected in those conclusions to show us if we need to change any regulations, the law? Is the problem of staff and the ban on employment introduced by the government, lack of technique and resources, to tell us what the Parliament must change in order to make it better and easier for you to work? So it's my first objection to your report that you didn't specify where this body chain is responsible for detecting the perpetrator, where the peck? What's the problem? If you as well as I have listened carefully to today's debate but also media writings in the last two and three months turns out to praise you. Just before Carla del Ponte, and now this Brammertz, if I'm not mistaken, is called. Only they are satisfied with your work and no one else. Because even the clubs of the ruling ones who spoke said the report was very good but. What I read particularly carefully, Mr. Bajic, in the report, crimes against freedom and the rights of man and citizen. In this statistical review, you gave a detailed representation of the crimes against life and body, human and citizen rights, humanity and peace, war crimes, drug abuse, crimes against property, the environment, general security, public order, economic crime, etc. And then on page 21, 22, crimes against freedom and the rights of a man and a citizen, which says that in the last year there were 5 thousand 882 persons reported for the crime of head 11, if I am not mistaken or 12, of which 5 thousand 135 threats and 193 subjects reported under Article 114. KZ. You said in the report that the 193 applications were a violation of the right to work. This Regulation shall enter The Penal Code speaks of 14 crimes against workers or citizens, so it is the right to work, so the right to freedom of choice and calling, is short of the law of a certain working time for the rest of the rights, social, pension, rights of the unemployed, childbirth, motherhood, him of the child and other rights laid down by law or collective agreement. Now I ask if it is possible, Mr. State's Attorney, that you have not received a single application that any employer, anyone in Croatia, has denied one single worker one single right from a collective contract? There's not a single application for short notice of labour law. I don't understand. Is labour law, the right of the unemployed, the right to pension, social security, motherhood, motherhood, the right to choose an area of human rights for you that deserves a single sentence in the annual report? There were 193 of them. I reviewed your report for 2004, there were 205. 2005. 215, '06. I couldn't find it, I threw it away unfortunately. 2007 203, he's now down to 193. This group's trust is dropping because there were obviously no effects. I told the debate last year that I support your report for the last time if you will not, according to the criminal acts referred to in Article 114, access more carefully, more sensitive and more detailed. I'm very sensitive to that. I am plagued by corruption and organised crime and war crimes, but the crimes referred to in Article 114 are a special domain of my interest. I think I'm right about that. And that I don't have to write any more, ask the Minister of Justice as I had to before to get the information that many employers, how many criminal cases were prosecuted in Croatia because of Article 114? Collics and those who ended up being convicted, who, by rejecting or withdrawing a lawsuit or anything? The area of labour social rights of the citizens of this country must be as important to you as corruption and war crimes and war profits, so I would ask you to extend that part of the report with the remaining statistics you have in the future. And I'll finish the next one. In one discussion on the Internet, one of my visitors to my blog said this way: "In Croatia, a state attorney in order to have respect for the citizens and you in the Assembly should not be allowed to press charges, i.e. to go against members of the government, MPs and heads of state, and I will trust him when he will be driving in a armored car with 6 guards because on the other hand there is an organized mafia." And a state lawyer who's not afraid of the mob doesn't send a good message, and we have in the good part all the elements of organised crime don't have to use the term mob that's Italian, we can call it something different. And finally, given that this is a brand-new case from September, so somewhere in the month, I'll give you this because I'm not sure, although it says that it came to you or that it was sent to you, sorry, given the seriousness of the letter I received, which points to the difficult acts of corruption in INI d.d., I'll give it to you so if you get me back if it didn't come to you, I got it today from New Gradiška, let you serve as the basis for further treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40767	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40768	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. State's Attorney. We just heard a call from the HSS club who invited you to do some things and said that you consider this a kind of complaint against the mayor, and I am now going to tell you that on behalf of the SDP I am asking you that as soon as possible, inform this Assembly and the Croatian public as to whether the allegations that Mrs Marijana Petir has made here are correct or not. If you don't, I'll think you're involved in throwing mud at people and constantly getting dirty with open affairs. Open affairs, which are not closed by your interpretation, or by the answer that there are no illegal actions or by having illegal actions, and you press charges, is the worst thing that can happen to the state, absolutely the worst. Because there's always a climate where all thieves are unfair, and unfortunately there's too many affairs. Calm down, gentlemen, calm down. So there's a climate where you don't know what's true or what's not. And that's why I'm asking you not only in this case, but also in some others to say some things, and I'm going to do more in my debate. When you spoke here in the opening statement, then you said that one sentence about how you can only answer for what's going on in the state's attorney's office, that you can't answer for others. However, in your investigations, you are definitely dependent on some others who are also doing part of their job. And you know as long as you're not ready to go before this House to say, who are the institutions of people, individuals, groups that obstruct the investigation and who are not doing their job professionally, until you get what the people say on your back. So far we'll ask you in this House why some things haven't been done and why some affairs have been standing open for years and haven't been closed or in a way that you said there were no irregularities and illegalities, or in a way that you've filed charges. Brodosplit has been here for years on the subject in this House, there has been a lot of writing in the Croatian public. A few days ago, a story came out about Mr. Macek being one of the most exposed people in the whole Brodosplit story and the disappearance of a very large amount of money, as Mr. Macek said he was supposed to be some kind of reliable, protected witness anyway, however, that no one actually accepted it. And even the other day, journalists asked Mr. Kramark, who is currently in the position of the interior minister, and it seems to me that he was the head of the SOA then, they asked him what he knew about it. The gentleman doesn't remember first, so he remembers. But when he remembers, he doesn't remember whether it was supposed to be a protected witness or if it was supposed to be some trustee or something else. Well, to me, he's just saying that Mr. Karamarko didn't do his job when he was head of SOA, but I don't know why he was rewarded with the post of Home Secretary. I've also never seen you from the State's Attorney's Office manifest yourself about it, is this true or not? If it is true, that the man who took part in some malices wanted to say some things and wanted to help you perform on the clean what was going on in Brodosplit, and you did not accept it, that this is something you must explain to the Croatian Parliament and then to the Croatian public. What was really going on? If you can take responsibility for yourself, I don't mind. But tell me who it is that didn't want to accept Mr. Cat as a protected witness or I don't know how to say it. On the other hand, there's been a lot of talk here about the Trucks affair. In 2005, the story, in 2004, started somewhere by the president of the country. At that time, in his presidential campaign, Stipe Mesic discussed some elements of the "Kamioni" affair in the fight for the second term. At the time, Mr. Roncevic said very renegadely that it was a sad play by a presidential candidate. So for the full five years, that play was supposed to get the indictment and finally get the court and the judiciary to say what was really going on. But enough questions, why wait all these years? Now you've picked up a piece of paper here and you said in 2007, there was some paper, I suppose, some crown evidence that didn't come to the State's Attorney's Office. But I'm asking you again, Mr. Bajic. Who is this institution, person or anyone who gave the paper to someone else and didn't give it to you? You have to tell me who's responsible, otherwise you're responsible. Otherwise, you're the most responsible person, because it was you who had to process it all. If it hadn't been for the parliamentary commission, if it hadn't been for the SDP that came across the parliamentary commission and came up with certain data and documents and evidence, I'm afraid nothing would have happened, as is not happening with any other affairs. Some members of the Podravka administration were arrested today. I'm just curious, is this case going to end up like Maestro? In Maestro, as I recall, there were some people who spent a year in custody, they went out, even some sued the state for being in custody without any evidence for them. Will it happen here that people who may have been saved in prison who might have said they were others... but who organized all that, who designed it all, that they weren't actually going to answer again. And it's very interesting that all investigations stand somewhere outside the gates of the Ban Courts, no further. Is it possible that some who have been on board, who are the most responsible for the business of the company, cannot bear any responsibility for what has happened in these companies? Why are they sitting in some kind of supervisory bodies, control bodies if they're not able to control what's going on. And then it can be read in the paper that they even stand a good part behind everything. You must have the strength to cross the threshold of the Ban Courts. So if the ruling team takes you down, come here to Parliament, we choose you, and we'll back you up. We can't fight against what's been eating our country away for years. For years, unpunished crime and corruption have been destroying our social tissue. And then we're surprised that we have people who have lost every scale of value. Of course. So today in Croatia it is no longer desirable to be honest and work, to be valuable. It's desirable to be a thief, it's desirable to manage, it's desirable in some way to come up with a huge amount of money, and in this way you get a little bit out of your left, a little bit out of your right pocket, and give it to people, and so you solve their problems, and then of course you're heroes. It's gotta start being tried for. It's not like we've been waiting five years for something to fall apart and get some kind of indictment, it's a lot, a lot sooner. And that's something you have to do. And in the end, I'd like to say. You know, in your 2008 report, you had a part where you boasted about working with citizens. There's no such thing in this report. I'm wondering if you removed that part of the report just because you're aware that your cooperation with the citizens is very bad. The fight against corruption and crime has no cooperation with citizens, and unfortunately most people who came either to the BIAK or to the State's Attorney's Office have brought certain data, unfortunately, ended up either on the street with a cancellation in their pocket or ended up with a thong on their heads. This is also a key problem of functioning of both USKOK and DORH, and you need to see who in your ranks is dealing with information to those against whom citizens have brought certain evidence. So today we have a situation where people come to us politicians and say look, I have some papers but I can't take them either to the State's Attorney's Office or to the BOLO because I have kids, I have to feed them. If I go there, I get fired, or I get kicked in the back. Until you solve the situation so that people who come to the State's Attorney's office, who bring you certain documents and stay hidden, protected so far you won't be able to get any more information because simply people are in fear, people are afraid, and they all get their heads down and let things go right next to them. You can hardly win a battle against crime and corruption yourself. So, without the support of the citizens, you can hardly succeed in all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40769	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40770	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. Ms. Milanka Opačić finished her debate with these signitative words that people are scared and afraid, and that's true, and that's true, and it suits the ruling because then there's a feeling of apathy, and there's a feeling that nothing is possible to change, and that's what it will be, that's what it wants. We need to change many things, first and foremost those that we need in politics to be together and then in second place create rivalry and competition for our policies. But around these things, there has to be one unambiguousness. But as our citizen thinks first, that's why I want to say this in the introduction, which points to irregularities in his company, in his environment whether it's a state-owned company, about administration, in his workplace that points to serious crime, and when he dares to talk about these doubts publicly, first of all, to speak publicly, and not only to file a criminal report, which then he doesn't know the public that he's filed, but publicly speaking, he'll get retaliated by those same state bodies, the tax administration, the financial police and assault. Well, we're also witnesses here when someone and the minister, when someone points or asks an awkward question, they don't get an answer to that question, they get directions, you know what you are, they're these, these are them. Such questions should be resolved without this question if someone has done something and is concerned. But he starts to threaten himself, so shut up, and we won't touch you for anything. So who's acting this way please nice? Well, that's the main feature of the mob. The Mafia acts like this, she leaves you alone when you leave her alone. And then it's a message to other state bodies as well as how to behave. Is this the atmosphere in which independent justice and the State's Attorney's Office are born and grown as part of an independent government? The policy is responsible for how the State's Attorney's Office works, how the judiciary does, and how much responsibility should be taken over first. Lately, we've had a terrible climate as far as that goes, since 2004, when the famous one who rides on a little wind and leaves, issued warrants and boasted about it. What message did he send? The applicability is in place. There was a lot of wind, and it better be. And you have these kind of jumps and jumps that then you want to silence the critics of the government. It's our criminal behavior, that's how a mob of colleagues and colleagues behaves. It's mob behavior. ... There you go, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, I keep my mouth shut, but if I answer you, it's not responding to the subject of the debate, it's responding to disqualifications. That's not good. That means we're not all in the same car to help solve things. And why and why everyone must know that. When we look at it, I'm not going to talk about concrete examples because it's a short time, so I want to use it just to look at how little the relationship compared to the previous year was in 2007 compared to this reporting period. There is no doubt that there has been a rise in reported crimes, regardless of whether they are minor, adult, type of crime, so that people are still not allowed to shut up, that however critical the public is, especially recently, against the judicial authorities, that it is the last haven and that it does not believe at all the authorities but to address the judiciary. Now, what are the capacities that I can satisfy? So, I think that we are a very unique country, a very rare country in the world that has a concise State Attorney's Office, which we still need, which deals not only with criminal persecution but also has to protect state property. You can imagine that property is protected through private individuals in whom the state trusts. Then, for one submission, it would be spent, which I answer to my colleague Matusic, about 3.5 million kunas chosen. But that's a special subject. It's a very interesting topic we should talk about. So, the State's Attorney's Office is also required to protect state property. And so that she wouldn't steal and pull in any way that anyone could get here, we'd have a lot less trouble in these recession times. What's the situation with the exploitation of a mineral, ore treasure where it's clearly stolen. Here we see it from the State's Attorney's Office, from this report that this is the biggest case right in Lika-Senjska and Zadar County. That's a huge problem. You can imagine colleagues here that for your authorities it was abolished as a criminal offence. Very interesting! The crime was abolished, so-called. Criminal mini reform '97. A year. We didn't have a criminal act of illegal exploitation, or theft of the mine treasure. And it used to be exploited in any way anyone could think of it. As far as the forest area and maritime goods are concerned, here are also these displays so that it does not take much time for other speakers or to save them time for other things I am talking about this very problem of protecting state property. We heard here that next year, all state property will finally be entered, and that's true, because you just can't protect it if you don't have it in first of all. The list started right during the coalition government, because until then, it was not even known what it was or what it was owned by the Republic of Croatia. In this, the total amount of crime this year, and also in this report, one disastrous fact is that drug abuse, and that is the easiest part of drug possession, includes almost 80% of drug abuses. That's what you see from the reported persons, the same punishments, the accused and the convicted. Every year it all grows. What does that mean? That we are absolutely powerless and that things are completely wrongly placed in curbing the most serious form of organized crime, which is exactly drug trafficking, drug growers, or chasing drug dealers and drug mobs. They're prominent citizens, they're donors, they're being targeted by all kinds of charity dinners and dinners. And then who is this government protecting? Why he sets up such a criminal code that just the victims are particularly dangerous criminals. The state police, the State's Attorney's Office, courts are exhausted in the processing of these persons because such a good part of things have been set up. The prisons are full of these people who went there for education and training not because of these people that we have inadequate prison staff. In fact, it is simply impossible to survive on such abnormal occasions, or troubles in a particular square, let alone do any meaningful education. Why am I even saying this? Because then we remain in the Penal Code, which has over 350 articles, and 750 incriminations with easier and more serious criminal forms. How long does the State's Attorney's office, police and courts of time stay available to take care of everything the predecessors have spoken of and what makes everyone unhappy, to deal with economic crime with the most difficult forms. Very, very small number of objects. I'm not going to talk about subjective responsibilities and guilt now, but they're completely wrongly placed, but not by accident. And as well as anyone who can do all that, allow another sentence of whatever, such as Zadar's 3,000-year-old town, and where you're buried, there's a fellow Roshin, a little bit or ten-inch you'll find some antiques. So in this Croatia as little as possible and whatever you bury, you will encounter terrible crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40771	Thank you. Two replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Ingrid, you said that fear and infidelity or how you said apathy got dragged into the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in case you reported crime, corruption clearly because of the possibility of quitting, because of sending inspection services, because of possible and possible attacks on the physical integrity of these persons. You see today at 9 p.m. he was invited to a informative interview of the Council of Brod-Posavina County of Dubravko Kujundzic, and we believe that this is a way of intimidation which is clear and loud to the Croatian public in all, so to all the media that broadcast and in the first public television journal, there were attempts to recruit and buy mandates. Instead of our State Attorney's Office, police are investigating those who may have bought these mandates, or who have received money for their transition from the party to the right, or in the county assembly, so by bringing power to HDZ, they are investigating the man and bringing him in for an informed conversation. The man who was in the police building for the first time was never in his life in the police department, and I think it's an act of intimidation as another instrument used to prevent this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40773	And Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40774	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Ingrid's, you said the State's Attorney's Office must protect, that is, the protection of state property. Also under the Law on the Return of Nationalised Assets during the South-Communist Government and the Law of '96. The State Attorney's Office shall represent the Republic of Croatia in the return of that nationalised asset. And to be clear, no one is against the return of that property, but the difference is in value between the assets taken away and the present value of that property. And according to that same law, the difference between the present value and the present value of that asset must be charged. So whoever gets the property back must make the difference. In particular, when it comes to forests and forest land, it is about 150,000 hectares, and according to forest estimates, the difference of that value is about 20,000 kuna per hectare, and that is about 3 billion kuna per hectare. So we took back someone's property that's far more valuable today than it was taken away and the state budget itself loses about 3 billion kuna on those transactions. A colleague said they had a little pig taken from them, and now we're smashing a 120-pound pig, but no one has to pay for the food. Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40775	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40776	So, I welcome again Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues of Mr. State's Attorney. I have otherwise prepared my debate on this subject, of course not as a professional, but as a citizen and representative of the citizens of the Parliament. But the course of the debate, however, turned me away from it a little differently. So here's why and why I'm going to base my speech on it. First, it seems to me that by discussing the State Attorney's report, or the State's Attorney's Office's work over the past year, it is more dedicated to the State's attorney than to the subject of the report itself and what the report says. Since the state's attorney said in his opening statement that the report was made by certain rules of the game, by law and that in that sense the report cannot be different from what it is, and the statistics that are inside it are simply indicators of what happened during that period of one year. The comments were made in the conclusions. Of course we're here to comment on both the report and what the report is talking about. However, something that is extremely important at this time of accession, that is, to try to get Croatia to join European integration as soon as possible, is the question of how Europe looks at us, and in all of this together, can also testify in the various talks that have been, the greatest praise of all the meetings is being given to the State's attorney for the work that it is. And now if the State's Attorney's Office is one of Croatia's institutions and if it has one of its own dignitaries that is recognised outside and thus recognised, it's unusual, but I think it's also harmful that something that others recognize about the quality we here simply cancel out by thinking that there's no value in it. My colleague Pupovac said that this report does not differ significantly from the last one, and it may be that it is, I have not made a parable of one and the other reports, but I see some of these figures that are shown more or less, the same number of delicacies, crimes, convictions, and even the structures of crimes are more or less repeated as some legality that lasts and nothing in particular is affected. It is unusual for me if Europe acknowledges certain results and commends that we have read in our newspaper, if we believe what our newspaper says, why the SDP is against both the report and all of this result, it is not clear to me that the political impact on the State's Attorney's office, i.e. the symmetry between the authorities, in particular, and what bothers the opposition of what counterpart Ingrid Anticevic has said and answers the authorities that this is how the State's Attorney's Office is under some control or led by the authorities. It is strange if we are against it, and it seems to me that we have sworn on the trio of the judicial authority, the executive authorities and the legislative authorities, to insist on it and that in this context someone from the SDP, not to appoint, is talking about how perhaps a state attorney should just appoint a minister of justice rather than choose a parliament, which is then a direct implication that the state's attorney would be under the control of the government, regardless of what authority he was at that moment. The criminal charges that are being reported, i.e. the incurring of so many criminal acts, any media, any such speeches as in the Assembly, there may indeed be a justification that such things exist, but there is one document that would be necessary, in addition to the responsibilities of the workplace to sign and write a criminal application and to answer morally and materially for that criminal application and to be included in the search for a judicial system as well as possible. Because the insinuations are one thing, the knowledge is another, the stairs are higher, but I've memorized from Mr. Attorney General's opening statement that everything you think you know you need and prove that in court would be relevant. So without valid evidence, it seems like it's all wrong together. One more thing from one general perception. It's not true that my colleague Opacic said there was fear of people. However, I would say that there is one great trust, perhaps only in the State's Attorney's Office and the BIA as a body that is capable of dealing with something, regardless of the result that is being reached and that for this reason the State's Attorney's Office and the BOOK are overloaded by various applications of which many are anonymous, so they do not bear the responsibility of those who report them, that this cannot all come together. For many things in Croatian society, in legislation, in my life I find, for negative things I find certain not justification but understanding, no matter how much it really needs to be understood and justified. But the Croatian state is still a teen age of states, it is a state that is not even 18 years old since the date of its recognition and simply, I remember one conversation before, there is not enough number of people to process all that garbage that has been collected for decades as facts, but also how one mental attitude of all of us together could in some way process and possibly process. In fact, there is a sophism about laws, and actually behind that is the ethics of all of us, and society as a whole, one sophiism about laws that says laws don't really need, because those who respect them don't apply, and those who don't respect it are already outside the law. However, laws are being passed in order to know what they are and what is not acceptable in one environment. Much of what the State's Attorney's office is saying in its report is worth the debate, regardless of how anyone approaches his position, from the point of view of his own interest, or from the point of view of the groups of people he represents. But when it turns into a political hypocrisy, then it starts to lose its value and... It's as if only political points are achieved through that thing and then the main thought is lost. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, media are happy to write about affairs, media are happy to encourage knowledge of affairs, they want to clear up some cases when they are already in the knowledge that they know them, as a positive side of the media it is certainly acceptable and should be supported, but in a certain way it creates a sense of the necessary blood, that there is as much blood as possible and that even before the trial is over that we know how we think it should end, so if it doesn't end up like that then we think something's depraved. I would like to commend once co-operation with the State Attorney's Office on Article 55 exactly what my colleague Ingrid Anticevic was saying, it is a matter of mine wealth that is unlawfully used and thus of illegal construction. I would also be apostrophe of the need for further work on the problem of maritime goods, the Law on the Sea Good and the concept of maritime goods as a general property to clarify this because in many cases it is not easily solved and the possible development is hampered. Also in the books of all... The Republic of Croatia, the ratio of ownership of state and municipalities because there are major disputes whether it belongs to the state or belongs to the municipality and treatment, in my opinion, anonymous reports that cause a lot of efforts and engagements of people, and in fact, behind this, often hide quite malicious and malicious initiatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40777	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40778	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Attorney. Here I would like to begin by commending the graphics of this report. Really the book looks nice, the graphs are beautiful, the statistics are beautiful, the colors are carefully selected, the question is, what with this report, what about the content like the ones that are going to read it, we're considering getting? Is that saying the State's Attorney's office is doing a good job? That the state's attorney and his team are doing what we all want to do? To live in an orderly, legal state and to expect him, independently and his team, to act against all perpetrators of criminal acts. Whether all works are sanctioned in Croatia today and whether unfortunately it suggests this report which is a lot of statistics on me would say so about acts that are and even judgments are seen 72% of judgments with conditional judgments, these are minor acts. Unfortunately, there are no large fish in this report. When we talk about the fact that in Croatia sometimes non-transparent and illegal behavior goes unpunished, we can analyse the revision of conversion and privatisation. Does there have to be one piece that's sanctioned? Has a criminal prosecution been launched against anyone based on a State Audit report that found that a large part of the conversion and privatisation of social enterprises in Croatia has been carried out in an illegal and non-transparent manner, has any work been sanctioned? So in Croatia illegal action is paid off, non-transparently. In some parts, you won't be punished, and that's what we want to talk about and say that we're not satisfied with that part of how the law firm does his job. I don't want to talk about, every year, the State Audit reports, or I'm going to point out that every year the State Audit gives numerous public procurement gaps, in the ministries, do we have any work that's sanctioned on public procurement? Someone's going to say the violations are these, they're not works that are significant. Up until a year ago, the violations went out of date if you didn't start them within a year, but let's see if anyone's been punished in the ministries, in public enterprises for breaking the Public Procurement Act. Even if symbolically, let the minister, the assistant, the secretary of state complains of limitations, initiate the state's attorney's procedure, and then let that person who does the public work complains of limitations, and then let the government relieve him of what he shouldn't be called upon because he's doing business in the public interest, but there's not a single act that's been initiated at all, let alone sanctioned. How timely and effective the State's Attorney's Office has already spoken to my colleagues. It's amazing that the president of the state warned four and a half years ago about a crime that's only been opened these days. So how do ordinary citizens feel about all sorts of gaps? How do those people who have a lot of memos feel, warn about failures, crime, when they see that even the President of the Republic doesn't even succeed in five years, what does our people say, cut to the chase? The president of the state warned that there were illegalities around the truck, getting military trucks, for five years it got sour, and here it was until the mayor of all the locals left, and then something started to happen in the state's attorney's office. Yes, yes, the maester of all the locals has left and only now do some of them manage to expose themselves because apparently there was one firm paw of that maester on those items, who wouldn't let things get away with cleaning and seeing the day. Okay, so, about "Brodosplit" in 2007, do we now have to read about the newspapers of people who are suspected of crime sending each other, I'd say, I wouldn't say, I'll say if you protect me, lock me up so nobody can do anything to me. Which is why if it's the fact that a man wants to talk, which is why the State's Attorney's office hasn't already done the job, but we have to read through the media the messages he sends either to the attorney's office or to those who are also involved in crime but are somewhere on the loose. "Maestro" except for one man who's been corrupt has fallen because he's really caught up in getting money for certain information, certain jobs, the other man, the same vice president of the fund, has been sitting in jail for a few days, we're reading in the newspaper about the pastry. She dropped the charges, no charges. For a year and a few days, the vice president of the fund was sitting in jail because he was allegedly suspected of getting one roast. Now, I'm asking the question how much this man is if he was really innocent and if there was really no reason to charge that man with his life, his career was ruined. He's been marked for life. Or on the other hand, I'm asking, did someone who was more powerful than him, who was in touch with him maybe hitchhike the same thing? Today we see the arrest of the people around Podravka, so no one can convince me that the economy minister knew anything about it. That he's a person who's esculpated from any responsibility. That the HANFA was supposed to control because more than 10% of Podravka's shares were acquired in the transaction, that HANFA knew nothing about it, that the president of the HANFA administration knew nothing about it. I'm getting more and more gentlemen and I'm wondering if the State's Attorney's Office... is talking to both Minister Polancec and the president of the HANFA administration who had to check the acquisition transaction over 10% of Podravka's shares, whether the talks were done and whether those people who may have had information had previously failed to respond and in some way did not prevent the crime that was obviously at work here. As far as corruption is concerned. I am looking at the report and unfortunately the European Union and the European Commission in each report speak of Croatia making some progress, etc., but it is always this big rock of corruption standing around its neck and feeling that really in Croatia nothing is happening. And, of course, the report is talking about it, because we see that only 2% of these all corruption acts were related to the abuse of the exercise of state power. So 2% of all. So I'm guessing that's where it applies to all the hair, so all the ministries, all the state administrations, etc. Well, then, indeed, in Croatia, these problems are almost gone. 2% may not be a big ratio compared to what the state apparatus represents. But I don't think there's enough will or seriousness to do that. To make something more serious. And finally, given that here I am, I'm going to make a little joke, by chance, that during the adoption, or the debate on this report on the highest state body in the Croatian Parliament, these two days have been a few arrests and that there is an impression, as here we are serious, we're going to do the job as it belongs. It accidentally coincided with this report in the Parliament. I would ask the Vice President, and here is the President of the Parliament that 4.5 times a year we have reports like this, perhaps then the agility of the State's Attorney's office will be much higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40779	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40780	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable state attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let's go back to the essence of things. In particular, the State's attorney, in its conclusions under point 4, claims quite correctly and clearly, the tasks of the State's attorney in criminal matters, the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences, where justified by law, and the confiscation of the property benefit acquired by the perpetrators' criminal acts. And the second, or fifth and sixth conclusions that I will not read, but I will just point out, and protection of ownership of the property of the Republic of Croatia. Why did I read that? Because it's the only institution and there's no one else in the state for this social commitment. It is a single institution, hence the exclusive right and obligation of the institution to prosecute the perpetrator of criminal offences. And why is that exclusive? Because it's a very sensitive issue for society, for trust in life, for development. That is why our political struggle tonight to analyse the state's attorney's report has unfortunately become a political struggle, and not to worry about the safety of citizens, nor the safety of business activity in the Republic of Croatia. If we move the market of our interest to the safety of citizens, to the safety of business in the Republic of Croatia, then we should ask ourselves how the rule of law of Croatia works? And the rule of law begins with the State's Attorney's office. We politicians and the Croatian Parliament are in charge of passing laws and providing material resources and insisting on the climate that only under the law, as he says here, can act on everyone in the Republic of Croatia erga omnes. Now we're coming to heavy ground. We should really hear about this and know about it from the State's Attorney's Office, but also from the data, is it possible in the circumstances in which the Croatian State operates to expect the State's Attorney to take action completely autonomously, without listening to the policy it is legally required? Is the perception of citizens that such action by a state attorney has been carried out and secured? Unfortunately not. The perception of citizens is very different. I'm not saying that's why the state's attorney's office is guilty. But neither can we escape from the sight of the MPs here, nor the citizens, that the work of the state's attorney's office under the rule of the former example was something different than is happening now. Is that a coincidence? Is that a coincidence or not? Is it quite a coincidence that the Brodosplit is now being processed? The media, therefore the public, and then from the ruling structures in a certain way suggest that it is no coincidence that a review of the ship's sales procedures from Brodosplit is renewed. It creates one picture that we can't be immune to. It is a situation that requires that we also ask the state's attorney to manifest itself, whether it has something to do with, and now I'm going to say so, so correct me, I think that the rule of law over Parliament is growing stronger and stronger. And it is not by chance that the Croatian Parliament goes through everything that comes from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that was by hasty procedure when he was prime minister who left the Executive Authority, the Government, and that he didn't even account for his mandate, nor did he explain why he left. When we have all this in mind, then we must be in the interest of citizens suspicious and question the state's attorney whether he is in a position to achieve the law of established tasks of the State's attorney in order to ensure the safety of citizens and the safety of economic operators to commit without fear of criminal acts, criminal offences or pressure and thus increase the ability of the Croatian economy, Croatian economy, Croatian society as a whole to join the European Union. Is that how we can access this report? It's 570 state lawyers and 85 processed applications in one year. That's true. Am I right? No, I don't. Eighty-five thousand is what I wrote in the opening statement. ... 200 grand. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A team more, a team better, a team harder. So we cannot talk about some insignificant crime in the Republic of Croatia if we have 200,000 applications. So we here have to wonder what's going on in society, whether we as legislators are lawmakers or at least lawmakers, maybe it's more right to say, co-responsible to that state. If this is added and we have to see it because it is our task to say that no one has ever said that the Sunny Hvar has been sold without any law under the Privatisation Act and there has never been a Law on Public Private Partnership. He was sold in a way that the buyer invests in what he buys. So who wouldn't buy for God's sake. But he can't stay in a society that's been organised that has no answer to that from the institutions that are in charge. So, we don't have to be angry with the state's attorney, we're just trying to create conditions and the conditions are to say, we're asking that we be completely independent of politics, executive power. And if others aren't trained to come out here and it's said by the gentlemen MPs and MPs, I have such a situation, so I can't answer the task you've given me with the law and other acts. We cannot be satisfied here with the real state of law and the rule of law. In this respect, no responsibility is required and it is not necessary to take into account the refusal to accept this report by the SDP club. He simply requires to respond to very important extreme phenomena as I have mentioned now by many of my colleagues. Maybe it's not the state's attorney or the state's attorney's office that's responsible, but it's got to show up. The first in the chain of good rule of law, the exercise of law is a lawyer, not political authorities and executive authority. They can create laws, but they can't run a political and political investigation no matter where they work, and that's what this is about. That's what it's all about, whether the state's attorney has the power and whether he's been distracted from processing, no matter what his name is and what function he's performed. That's all it's about. If there is no power then there is no full operation of the rule of law and that is to be answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40781	Thank you. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40782	Mr. Vice President, State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I have devoted my personal special attention to section 252 - Preventing corruption. Therefore, only the first sentences in the report, Mr Bajic, say that there is widespread perception of high corruption in the Republic of Croatia, but in his view not only perception but unfortunately the actual spread of corruption. That's why the State's Attorney's Office has to pay special attention to that kind of crime. So, for the State's Attorney's Office, knowing about perception is also something that means special activity. One of these activities was to prevent corruption in its own ranks because it is the best guarantee for citizens and for all those seeking an effective fight against corruption. From what is said in the report, we can really say that the state's attorney has well organized surveillance and everything else that at least such cases don't happen in the State's Attorney's Office. Then we go to final discussions that assess the situation in certain areas of crime and, of course, under h) is corruption and the assessment of corruption. Now this is what the Report cannot satisfy us for a simple reason because you can see from that report that the primary corruption, which is a bribe, has been given a lot of attention, is simply a lot of success, but it is far more difficult, far more dangerous, what damages both the state budget and the property of the Republic of Croatia, and it is essentially a crime related to abuse of power, abuse of power, especially the state government. In that part, too, it is also evident from the report that it cannot be satisfied, that too few cases have been processed, that the State Attorney's Office has shown impotence in this process, estimates that efficiency in that part can only be achieved together with other services. And what they're trying to say is that in that part, the entire organization of the state hierarchy isn't effective enough and unfortunately, there's not enough results. Of course, it's not just this grade. If we engage a little bit in the statistics that are present in this report, then we will really see that when we talk about these most difficult aspects of corruption and that is abuse of duty. We've only processed five people plus two in progress and it seems to me that all five have been rejected in some way by statistics. So, if we go back to the beginning of a widespread perception, which says that real corruption is also too small a number of cases that should sort of solve the damage to the Republic of Croatia, damage to property that essentially creates abuse of power. I must say, we know how to do the audit in Parliament. It didn't seem to me like a year ago that we didn't even get the final reports on the revision of conversion and privatisation by names, last names, damages, failures, I would say to abuses. It was all in the report. So, I'd say parts of the state government we've got quality written reports, documented. But processed by these reports is nothing. Every year we have special audit reports on business and state and local authorities. Also, I would say to the above, abuses, crimes, even criminal acts, but there is still no processing, there is no processing again. I would say to all of us today is less than after the latest failures of management in certain companies clearly that the biggest problem is public procurement. In public procurement, everyone, but every State Audit report specifically points to failures, gives examples, gives data on the damages that have taken place. There's no processing. Now we're wondering what the reason is? Where is the problem in the functioning of these state bodies? What's a state audit? Where's the police? Where are the investigative organs? Where are the mass of regulatory bodies that should be present to stop all of this and of course where ultimately the processing is by the state's attorney. That's what we can't be satisfied with. It is unacceptable that we have reports, that we have data, that only the State's Attorney's Office is aware of the problem of crime in the part of corruption, and that, in fact, this difficult kind of corruption that can still be proven because there are reports, because it is the monitoring of the work of the state authorities and local self-government in that part, unfortunately, we do not have statistics that can satisfy us. And on the other hand, in those final ones, I would say that considering this report doesn't indicate where the problems are. We cannot be satisfied only with the fact that gentlemen the problem is that state bodies are not well organized to prevent such acts. That doesn't satisfy us. It is evident that if we want a more effective fight against corruption and perception then in Croatia and by citizens and Europe that the authorities responsible for it are fighting independently, that there is no impact on them, that there is no political pressure on them to create such an impression of simple results in this report must be different, statistics in this report must be different. I'll take just one example - shipbuilding. Europe has pointed to a problem in "Brodosplit". It even seems to me at those first moments that the state's attorney was forced to take some steps without the police's cooperation in order to bring about the prosecution proposal or the initiation of the procedure, because the police did not want to cooperate. You know which one. But what's more important? The people who warned in the shipyard that it was really corrupt acts, that the money was being transferred out also came under criminal charges, because they were former management members and are guilty of losses at Brodosplit. But what's interesting? The losses in shipbuilding are two thousand years ago and after two thousandths until today 2009. But imagine, no shipbuilding administration is under criminal investigation except for those in Brodosplit who were likely to testify. What does that mean, State's Attorney? What are the approaches to persecuting people who are apparently, probably guilty of negative results and should answer but why only in "Brodosplit". Where are the other shipyards? Where's the period before those? Where's the period after those? That's what worries all of us about what's happening, whether it suits those who are dealing with corruption, so their witnesses are diminishing their value, etc. And at the same time, how to explain to workers for all the losses when no one is to blame in those shipyards, but no one, no one, no administration, no government. Those are the answers we need to see in this report, but we don't see them. And that's why this report I personally won't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40783	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40784	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. A lot of my predecessors mentioned the "Brodosplit" affair, and these days it's being updated again, and all those who played on those marathon long paths of oblivion seem to be wrong after all. Here are also heard from the highest places in the executive government requests to re-implement the investigative actions where they are suspected of being carried out in the right way, and since I started talking in this House years ago about this affair and asking the first Prime Minister Sanader to answer some questions about my suspicion that it was criminal and illegal actions, and in return he was getting frequent meals, attacks, so I would say in an inappropriate language which I in the Assembly and told him was the language of the street, not the language of this Chamber. But there was such a time that when a parliamentary representative asks for what they pray for citizens to report if they have any indications, then he gets what he gets, and among other things, a criminal complaint for public harassment, because in Croatia, workers, divers, cyclists, housewives, pensioners, pioneers, I don't know who was very upset that I asked for smugglers. Imagine. The state's attorney's office rejected this, and I have to admit that at that point, the State's Attorney's Office has shown in an implicit way, an indirect way, that one part of the system that's very important, and that's the police. I repeat here that I do not know what time it was for the police administration of the Split-Dalmatia County to conduct an investigation, and in all that I would have concluded it was obstructed by this investigation, because during the investigation, it came out publicly claiming that there were no criminal, illegal and similar acts, although it is very unusual, unprofessional and in conflict with common sense to go public and even through a spokesman claiming that there is nothing, and the investigation takes place and they are conducting those who claim it. So, you see before the investigation is complete, you're still claiming the results of the investigation. At that time, the State's Attorney's Office seemed to me for the first time in Croatia to make a precedent, and it did, in fact, make the actions that led to the indictment proposal, etc., and that went to the judicial procedure, according to the court whether it was. In my opinion, it was already a confirmation that there was something wrong with the police in our county, and we were expecting it when the Home Secretary changed that some people would be carrying out conventions and never having a finished investigation without talking about these things that I mentioned. That didn't happen. In the meantime, our knowledge that we had in these and those ways is confirmed and Minister Karamarko says that, Mr. Puss, who was one of those processes, has not, the verdict has not been passed, so we can't speak, but he's suspected of acting against the law or one of the main suspects that he participated in these illegal actions, that he's offering now turns out, and that's confirmed by the minister that he's offered to be either an associate or a protected witness, a penitent, but the minister of wonders, the current minister can't remember. That was three years ago when he was head of SOA. He can't remember what he was offering. He has no right not to remember. And I guess that function requires you to have some notes, to do your job. How can he say he doesn't remember? Either it's a blur again, cooks, hides, or it's about something worse. So the question that comes out of this is who made it impossible, warned or advised Mr. Mace to be neither an associate nor a protected witness because nothing would happen to him. He therefore asked in return not to go into custody, as published, etc. Otherwise, our police haven't blocked the property or anything. This must be answered by the Croatian public. I know the Croatian public doesn't force us as fast as we can. Speed is questionable. So how willing we are to answer these questions because of the pressures that unfortunately come from the outside, because the pressures inside are ignored, so we came from the MPs or I don't know who. Therefore, the European Commission always puts corruption first in its objections, the lack of judicial functioning, and then cites Split’s smuggling as a paradigm example. Not because it's the biggest money that's possibly stolen in Croatia, but what's a paradigm situation, a visual example, a pattern of how it's developed with us, in terms of politics. Gentlemen, we politicians can't get rid of it, but we're not all equally guilty. She wouldn't accept political responsibility here, let alone some heavy responsibility. In this whole story, then, the truth is that this process is also accelerant thanks to the attorney's office, and it doesn't need to be reduced. There is this other side of which my colleague Linic spoke, the smell of trying to establish an equidistance in relation to the demigodials of the real or imaginary or the apparent, does not matter, the political options behind which it stood in certain administrations, and then there were processes that went according to the former administrations, because of the damage from business and so on, but it applied only to the Split Square. I answered first of all here because I was the one who asked these questions. I assure you, as long as I am in the House, I will not stop insisting on answering that question, and from the current minister who was his present appearance from the Home Secretary yesterday, I find it very unprofessional to explain to me what happened about the Cat case now to say so. We need to know that. We need to know that because then we'll get answers and questions about who's involved. There's no feeling, if I remember everything, and then whoever's professionally involved in it has to, not only remembers, but has documented every minute when it's discussed. If we don't work out the police, in one county, otherwise to be clear, it's always about a group of people not to be generalized, then we won't be able to solve a lot of what we want because in their hands there are still big mechanisms that depend on the results of all our efforts to eradicate corruption, and that's why I think some moves are necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40785	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in the first part of my presentation, I'm going to talk about a part of the State's Attorney's report on war crimes and those war crimes that are here, unfortunately, very rudely touched, and I would say with one brief paragraph just explained, and as far as the war crimes committed during World War II are concerned. On today, the Croatian south, Dubrovnik recalls the terrible crimes committed by communist hordes on the island of Daxie. Nearly 50 Croatian intellectuals, including friars and priests of Croatian intelligence from Dubrovnik, were executed in one night, 64 years ago. Only executed because they were Croatian patriots. The crime was committed by communist, Partisan authorities, who were certainly not anti-fascists, as some of their followers are trying to portray them today. Why weren't they anti-fascists? Because they just killed anti-fascists, because this particular Dubrovnik example shows that Partisan communists, one part of them of course not all, but one good part of them, especially the command part, that they didn't really care about anti-fascism but only to take over power and eliminate all those who would be opponents of the dictatorship of communism. Because among the killed were persons who were captured just by fascist Italy, by these forces, being held captive in Kazamat in Prevlaca. There was a prison where fascists closed anti-fascists and among those anti-fascists were three people who later killed communists on the island of Daxi. So, these anti-fascists, the true anti-fascists who were locked up on Prevela are of course after the fall of fascist Italy in late '43. The years were freed and continued to fight for the idea of Croatia, but they were executed without a court and without any blame on the island of Daxi and today Dubrovnik and the Croatian South remember this crime. Today, both the Bishop's Conference and the Croatian bishops are on the island of Dax. Why am I saying that? Because there are documents that clearly and clearly show who are responsible for this crime and I think it would be good, I hope that this sentence, which reads, will read: "That the perpetrators of the investigation will be completed in 2009, that the investigation will be completed and that those who committed these crimes and direct commanders should be known to the public." So I'm going to say that from a document signed by Ante Jurjevic Baja, it's very clear what kind of criminal, communist organisation it is. Because in that document, at the end of that document when you say who's caught in Dubrovnik and what should be with them is a sentence and it's a document, a historical document that exists in the archives, "Anyway, kill them must be killed." Is the Croatian state today 60 and a few years after World War II ready to sanction these communist crimes? It's a question that needs to be asked clearly and loudly. Today, communist crimes are trying to relativize and justify in some way. Every crime, especially a war crime, is a crime. And there's no excuse, there's no excuse. What Europe has done today, we are not ready to do in Croatia. The Council of Europe made clear in its documents that totalitarian, dictatorial, criminal regimes of fascism, Nazism and communism. A few months ago, more specifically in April this year, the European Parliament also adopted a declaration and a resolution on the day of remembrance of all victims of totalitarian criminal regimes of fascism, communism and Nazism. We in Croatia today, apparently according to the inscriptions and statements of some who participate in the political life of Croatia, are not prepared to condemn all crimes equally. We're not ready to make peace with the facts, and we're not ready to give away the pate to the victims, especially the innocent victims. It's something that's inadmissible if we want to go to Europe, and we want to. We all want European standards then and in Croatia, these European standards must be clear and all the political forces that are proclaimed by the pro-European forces must represent the same attitudes. Unless we have a fig tree in our pocket and we think Communism will return as some wish. On the island of Daxi, Pater Perica was killed, so one friar, better known to the Croatian public as the author of the anthem, I dare say the Queen of Paradise. And he was probably killed for that anthem and for writing an anthem the Queen of Eden of the Croats. Also a few days before that, many intellectuals, Croats, patriots were killed on Orsula, and it was indeed a crime for every conviction, but Mr. State's Attorney, I think there are enough documents that indicate exactly what forces have carried out the order and who is the commander of that crime on Daxie. Not to mention further crimes at Bleiburg and after Bleiburg, etc. and numerous crimes on numerous caves and on numerous sites in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia where Croats suffered. So, in the crossroad I don't particularly want to talk about this right now, but there have been a lot of speeches, but today I'm being offered, and maybe it sounds a little emotional what I'm saying on this very day, the Dubrovnik regiment is reminded of this terrible crime that has not been convicted at the time of Communism that was taboo at a time of Communism that was not to be talked about. And it's a sad day today we don't know the names of those who are direct commanders, and the people of Dubrovnik knew them. They used to stay away from them, they used to whisper, say here's one of the criminals with... And it's a crime that was never convicted at the time of the communist dictatorship in Croatia, ever. Nor was it possible to talk about him. Today it is possible to talk, today we will talk loudly and clearly about both the documents and the people. And this example where communist criminals killed anti-fascists clearly states that the same ones who wanted to hide under the cover of anti-fascism were not anti-fascists, but the criminals were dictators. That's what I'm saying. As for other issues related to the work of the State's Attorney's Office, I agree with my colleagues from the SDP, that everything regarding shipbuilding should be examined. I couldn't agree more. All of them, all of them, all of them. But let's not, just as my colleague Ingrid Anticevic said before, let's not judge anyone before they really prove it to him in court. Because then we can talk about many that criminals are thieves, that they're corrupt, etc. We can. But then let's examine apart from Brodosplit, and let's question Victor Lenac, too. Whether there was a possible abuse of power over Victor Lentz, when millions were given, hundreds of millions of kunas were given out of the state budget for Viktor Lenac. Is this where the abuse of position occurred? Today is the current HAC, for example, the purchase of vehicles etc. Since 2001, HAC has obtained vehicles in the way that today's administration has done since 2001. The ARZ has equally obtained cars for HAC management since 2001, and not only for HAC administration, ARZ, which can be verified. So, let's check all the allegations, check all the doubts, check all the doubts. That when the state's attorney's office is the place where they'll be listed, and doubtful, those doubts are being checked and no one has anything against it. But let's not talk about the fact that he's a criminal, before it's really rightful and proven, as it was tried in the case of the Trucks, etc. Let's let the court do its job. The D.A.'s doing his job, let's let the court do its job and wait for final decisions. It already acts as political decisions to put and place some former ministers in prison, so they are released. No one's saying anything about them today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40787	Okay. Two corrections. One replica. First Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40788	Since counterpart Matušić called the Communist Party from World War II a criminal organisation. I disprove his claim that Franjo Tudjman was a member of a criminal organization because he was a member of the Communist Party during World War II. And being her high-ranking officer, then and being Partisan political commissioner. Otherwise, only the living can be tried, the dead will be judged by history and Frano Matušić if he becomes a historian.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40789	That's not true, colleague Jurevic. I listened very carefully to the argument. He did not call his colleague Matusic the Communist Party of Yugoslavia a criminal. He spoke of crimes precisely in a particular circle involving crimes in Daxie. So don't generalize, which is incorrect. Second correction Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40790	counterpart Matušić said Victor Lenac and others should be investigated. I'm correcting the State's Attorney's Office has investigated the basis of our parliamentary commission's orders all regarding Vitor Lenca and provided answers. The second is that Mr. Deaf is deaf and then politically speaking what he wants to hear. It's the same question of a hotel in Dubrovnik. These are the shops that are finished. And the State's Attorney's Office has completed these proceedings. And here's what he knows. That's the facts. And the second thing is that you persist as a parliamentary representative is politically muddying and spitting. That's right. I'm not burdening myself as a parliamentary representative. You attack businessmen and attack employees in these companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40791	Mr. Linic, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40792	I've made it very clear that I'm correcting the assumption that he said we should investigate. I tell him there's been an investigation and he knows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40793	Then it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's a correction to an incorrect thesis. If colleague Matušić said there was something to investigate about Viktor Lenco, then you say it was investigated.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40794	Can't be investigated twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40795	You can't. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40796	Well, you can do it ten times. ... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40797	Comrade Linic, please. ... Replica Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40798	Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Matusic. As a rare when I strongly agree with your debate in the first part when you spoke of hate crimes, to say out of hatred for Croatians and Croatian people who were committed on the island or on the island of Daxi. However, I must mention a little closer history. Namely, I must tell Mr. Mladen Bajic that he is in Slavonski Brod on the occasion of the Homeland, Liberation and Defence War since the bombing of the so-called so-called "Slavonski Brod". The '92 Republika Srpska. In six months, 500 civilians and 28 children were killed up to 14 years. So, one whole class. I've never heard of a known or unknown perpetrator based on this data being accused or wanted for these crimes and for these crimes committed to civilians in Slavonski Brod, especially for the death of 28 children.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40799	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you that very few are actually accused of these latest crimes in the Homeland War in Serbia-Montenegro aggression in Croatia. I'm not going to use a dictionary of individuals who are trying to talk about civil war today. This is the topic the Croatian Parliament should talk about, but it is about Serbian-Montenegro aggression in Croatia. The same thing Osijek felt was the Croatian south, and then the question arises when Croatian historians say it was a civil war, which is a civil war, with which the citizens were at war with the Croatian south, with whose citizens. So, no doubt it was an aggression, and it is certain that very few people have been charged. There have been numerous charges filed, there are numerous evidence and living witnesses and those who have been imprisoned in camps both in Montenegro and Serbia, etc., and there are numerous reports. And I hope that they will ultimately result because war crime doesn't get old, that eventually it will result in the arrest of the people concerned, but the fact is that so few people have actually come before the court and were responsible for the crime. I personally think that all those who were behind that trigger on the cannons or on the mortars and around Vukovar and around Osijek, and all other Croatian cities and around Dubrovnik, in these areas that they were responsible, they cannot be given forgiveness because they directly threw grenades at people and thus killed civilians of course and defenders etc. So, they're directly responsible, and that's a lot of regret. I'm afraid we won't all probably answer, but I hope most of them, however, especially those who gave the orders will come before the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40801	Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović-Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40802	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, State Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the work of one of the most important institutions of the rule of law, the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2008. It is the obligation of the State Attorney's Office to prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences in accordance with the law and to represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia. This responsible work should be carried out independently by the Government, by the Parliament, regardless of policy. The question arises whether this is the case, whether the State's Attorney's office is indeed independent. I'm saying it's not. In the data on corruption crimes, we see that criminal data is very modest and corruption is one of the biggest problems of Croatian society. We can freely say that corruption is the cancer of our society's wounds. It is said that the office, i.e. USKOK, began several criminal proceedings for corruption crimes during 2007 following the long and complex conduct of the reconnaissances, which led to a great public interest. We see from the report that the proceedings were ongoing at the end of 2008. Some are over this year and finished. It's about... in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, on the action "Index" and other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And again, the low-ranking civil servants who were sitting on the boards of directors who were not responsible for anything, and then the question is why are they sitting on these boards at all, what do they control if they don't answer for anything at all. There's no responsibility for the ministers. The question arises as to what happened to those forms of corruption at higher levels in the centres of power, and it is known where these power centres are located and whether at all anything would have been done and going on about former Minister Berislav Roncevic in connection with the "kamioni" affair that today, here in the Assembly, did not discuss the 2008 report on the work of the attorney's office, i.e. that he did not leave who was protecting him, which is the former prime minister. Well, that's how a state's attorney can justify that they've come in line and big fish, although they're only four years late. And the president of the state has been saying for five years that the purchase of the truck damaged the state budget for about 10 million kuna, but the president of the state was obviously not listening. There was also a parliamentary commission, but in every way possible, this affair was still trying to cover up. All this time, the State's Attorney's office is doing nothing. Now suddenly there are elements of the crime and there is a pending indictment. There's a further question of what's going on with the Brodosplit affair. My colleagues here from the SDP talked about it today. We hear these days that this topic is being updated again and about $5 million is missing. We had a minister who was also sitting on the company's supervisory board and who wasn't responsible for anything at all. Why was the minister not asked or invited to discuss how he had performed his post as chairman of the company's supervisory board. I have listed only some of the affairs of many who are very interested in the Croatian public and citizens expect that any perpetrator of a crime or at least more perpetrators of criminal offences will be prosecuted. It's the only way the State's Attorney's Office can gain the trust of our country's citizens and that's the essence of the State's Attorney's office. I would also like to say something about criminal acts in the area of economic crime. We see from the report that mainly those crimes are on the rise in previous periods, and this is especially true in crimes against the security of payment and business that have been increased by around 20%. With regard to the work to combat economic crime, data on the reporting and processing of criminal offences of abuse of power in economic business are indicated. This crime is extremely important because it causes great damage to the state budget and also to state property in large amounts. And what is particularly worrying compared to previous periods is that there is a large negative selection of applications due to difficulties in proving these crimes. The report cites the state's attorney and adds that it is necessary to amend the law in order to adapt the description of these works to economic opportunities in our country. It states that amendments to the Penal Code are necessary, especially as regards the crime of tax evasion. Then the question arises why these amendments to the Penal Code have not already been made. This is about criminal acts where, as I have already said, great damage is done to the state budget and state property. And in conclusion, the state's attorney and the State's Attorney's Office would need an institution of the highest trust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but because of numerous unresolved affairs, it certainly is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40803	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40804	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable Attorney General. I will just participate in this debate a little earlier discussion by my colleague Matusic to use as an illustration in actually using double criteria, that is, the way we call on one side to wait for the court to be the one to find out by means of a powerful verdict and say that someone is guilty, and a few minutes before that we actually listened to who the criminal is, who did what, who killed whom he killed, that they knew the names and we actually got one assessment in which you are actually if I can apply it to this case today, in fact, perfectly portrayed how it works, or whoever was supposed to do the job there does not work. This criticism of the lack of police work in Dubrovnik I really did not expect the meaning of the man sitting on the side, meaning HDZ or the ruling party. Because listening right now to the State Attorney's Attorney's report I've figured out the basic message, and that's let everyone do their job. I would remind you of Operation Phoenix and if we were able to hear Mr. Minister of the Interior we could probably hear about this operation that I've known since 2000 whether it's been going on, exactly how many cases have been solved, how many criminal charges have been filed, and the role of the attorney general is to prosecute those for whom criminal charges have been filed. I want to point at this opportunity, let everyone do their job. That's a very important thing to me. Expecting Mr. Bajic as the state's chief attorney or the state's attorneys of 600 of them, as many as there are, checking out any doubt as to how we want to say it, or whatever comes to mind. Our law has very simply defined it, and it is a criminal application, then it is their job to further determine whether it is an official offence or not and to work under this procedure and privately as well as on official duty. You have a chance to continue these processes. We've been listening to a colleague over here make accusations, and I want to know if a criminal report has been filed or not. It's a nice neat signature, put your name and last name under it, and then you say I have that and that knowledge. It's our problem, and I think it's what the State's Attorney's office is, which is that we can handle anonymouss any way you like. You can write an anonymous criminal report against anyone and come up with a situation to be checked even if you're a parliamentary representative without a name and name behind it. In some other countries, it's not like that. Let each one stand behind what he thinks is a crime, because actually these events are happening to... they can be used for political purposes because this problem is not ended and can always be extracted, and it can always be claimed that there are some imaginary even accusing people whether they were anti-fascists or not because the case is not over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what's wrong with this country, and it's your choice to file a criminal report, to persecute him who's the perpetrator, not an out-of-date crime. And not with the open-up and the existence of these cases, we can use them whenever we're comfortable with it, and yet I repeat on other occasions we're looking for a court-law waiting. What is also very important to me and what I have actually managed to understand from the report is not really different from the people of the SDP club in the sense that the impression in the public that is gaining, and that is not to solve certain of the most important crimes that touch feelings in the public of citizens, that is what tortures etc. I think there's a basic thing going on here that we don't notice. It's these 2700 rushes. It's something that concerns me, too, in this report. Because in fact, the most important part of those items that are of interest whose names we know as ultimately looking for answers daily. What's also important to me today is that we don't have it again, or we won't get it by the end of the year because some others are much smarter than to come here and sit down and file their work report and say everything that's going on even though the law says they don't. That is why we do not have the Home Affairs Minister's reports defined by the Police Act as having to submit a report on its work to the Croatian Parliament at least once a year. That's certainly not going to be on the agenda, and that's what's causing the problem where then we can see who might have done something. Also, I think that the issue of tools in the hands of the state's attorney is also something that is mentioned today as much as USKOK begins to function and what this Croatian Parliament has partly adopted and started to work in USKOK. This coordination is likely to be much better later and the State's Attorney's Office should make far better procedures. I'm interested in whether we're finally going to enable the protection of not the state's attorney and their actions, but whether we're finally going to introduce a obstruction of justice as a criminal offence, then actually this obstructive situation, with the fact that any policy puts its paws on, that someone picks up, that someone calls, intervenes, or that someone doesn't do a dead cold job would be a situation that would be absolutely right to obstruct justice. Because I can't actually listen to a variant where the state's chief attorney of which our greatest expectations are to solve all the most important cases in the situation to say I'm powerless, I can send an ambulance. That can't happen. This is what I think should be one of the basic tools with which we should help in the common interest, which is to finally achieve that situation, which is that citizens also have confidence in the institution of the attorney general, and not that it has this feeling that politics is being managed and paid to make something or not. I'm going to end up in the end maybe with this example that's constantly mentioned, and it's the "Brodosplit" that's perfect, and it's true, which is that the attorney general had to reach out to the situation for disobeying the police, for their refusal to file criminal charges had to reach for the moves, which is that I had to go through with it. And under these conditions it can't be done. Some there, and there, MP Jurjevic was rightly rewarded for disobedience, went to better jobs from the police, got better positions, and today surely enjoy the benefits of what they didn't actually do, did in the affair. That's what's also controversial. I'll finish the sentence, and it's about the link in the chain, and that means I did that job. A hundred times he may object to you whether you could have done so at that time or not. But I'm going to tell you one important thing, which is that as long as all the systems, or all the parts of the repressive system, we have 80 agencies that can be called repressive, they don't file criminal charges behind that, by then we'll be in this situation, which is that the rush is something that a state attorney in these cases has to save himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40805	Thank you. Three replicas. First Mr. Representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40806	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It would be nice to explain to your colleagues at the club exactly what you were trying to explain to me that someone is prejudicing someone's guilt, because from your benches come daily accusations and talk about crime, proven crime, which has not yet been proven anywhere. Which hasn't been proven anywhere yet. As for the communist crimes again, that's where you misheard me. So there are criminal charges against both known and unknown perpetrators both for crimes both on Daxie and Orsula, and elsewhere. So there are criminal charges. The problem is what your colleague said, what some of them are dead, they're not being prosecuted. Can we today say that because he is not led against Slobodan Milosevic, he is not a criminal? We can't work with a colleague, because it's obvious and clear. As it's clear from those documents that I quoted, when someone writes anything about killing them, they have to be killed, of course it's a criminal, no matter what someone's dead. Can we tell Stalin he wasn't a criminal? We can't. That's what the Russian court said the other day at the attempt of a grandson or nephew, I don't know, from Stalin who tried to challenge that Stalin was a criminal, the Russian court was, imagine even the Russian court in that case Stalin said that he was a criminal, although he was not tried for a crime. He wasn't tried for a crime. In such clear examples of a crime where clearly who gave the orders, besides the State's Attorney's Office report, you can read that a suspicion was established that the military and political summit was the commander of communist crimes. Read it in the State's Attorney's Office's report, and you'll understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40807	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40808	First of all, it is clear to me as a representative in the Croatian Parliament that I am obliged to comply with Croatian laws, and what is most important perhaps by respecting your wishes, which is to pursue someone who is dead, unfortunately it is not possible. I can understand, in fact, that you're taking advantage of it, that variant, which is that you're actually starting to open up a story and a topic about someone who can't at least prove his innocence, or can prove in the end that he's not guilty. That variant is perfect. What's the basis of the right, and that's it, can't haunt someone who's dead. And don't tell me who Slobo Milosevic is, because you know I know it, right from the Dubrovnik battlefield, Mr. Matusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40809	Next replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40810	So here I refer to this particular part of the story of crimes and ideologies. I would say, here's my colleague, Ostojić, that perhaps today's biggest crime is to try and rationalise and conflict this people and citizens of Croatia on the basis of something 70 years ago, and with a clear goal of covering up today's crimes called crime, corruption, dredging, thieving, stealing jobs, bringing down a large part of our population, etc. Perhaps that too will one day be written down as the greatest crime of all time. Could be. It'll depend on a lot of things. And since certain claims have been made here again, here, Mr. Chairman, I have understood again, because I am probably not intelligent enough, but it seems to me that again the first President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Francis Tudjman, as senior officer of the Partizan Army, political commissioner and senior official of the Communist party, has ordered crimes. I did it in a kind of implicit logic based on what, those thesis or hypotheses were set by fellow Matušić. And I don't know why he's doing it, what a man did to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40811	Coliga Jurjevic, please do not insult the honor, reputation and dignity of the first Croatian President Dr. Tudjman. The execution of such structures and deductions is truly amazing. Don't do that. Neither is it possible to link the first Croatian president to the crimes on Daxie in any way. In Daxi, the verdict of a military court, a military district, a made-up verdict with imaginary judges, 21 people were found guilty of hostile work, cooperation with the occupier and after that by the gunmen. There was no court, there was no verdict, but there was a shooting. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40812	Dear Mr. Jurjevic, I will, on one example, actually try to replicate you, and that is again to point out how unfulfilled certain cases are, that is, the constant use of them for daily political purposes is exactly the method by which attention is drawn from those things that really sea this country. In the election campaign not so long ago, now in the local elections in 20 reprisals and reprisals I was in a position to show the alleged crime my grandfather committed in Dugopol. All the witnesses who testified in that movie are younger than me. It's a system of how it's done. I'll repeat, I stand up for everyone, as a legalist, as a law-abiding man, to shut down and get rid of each case, to do it neatly, and not to have this situation, in fact, that you're convicted or indemnified, because then it causes absolute frustration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40813	And Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40814	Col. Ostojić, in his debate, you pointed out the lack of adequate tools to get certain applications from his epilogue. Of course there's no trade without tools. Is it possible that in the 21st century when we updated the Law on Criminal Procedure, when we changed five times the Penal Code, there was no modern economic incrimination. Then why are we surprised? If any criminal proceedings occur, there is an inadequate judicial epilogue. So in which it is still possible for the country not to respond or to slip before the court members of the board of directors and supervisors. With us, that's enough and it's even legally covered often so they say I didn't know. Well, please let me tell you something, I didn't know that train was passing. Well, that's how he pleaded guilty. Why do you resist modern criminal incrimination? Government when we had it in 2003, when we were back in 2004 and '05. The government will give its opinion on this further. So please, nice Callisto Tanzi founder of the Parmalata dairy giant who, by the way, told you and founded this company, founded it, threatened to punish him for 30 years. He was sentenced by the Italian court to 10 years in prison for committing accounting fraud, obstruction of audits and manipulation of his company's stock prices. Because there were 14 billion dollars missing in his account, which is the biggest European bankruptcy. Thus, everywhere in the world is responsible for the very shortfall in the company and for companies and for non-response, i.e. the cause of damage to the creditors, whether they are suppliers or workers. It's still not a crime with us, and you're resisting it. So what for?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40815	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40816	Dear colleagues... There's no reason to be a dear colleague... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] If I may, Mr. Vice President? [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40817	We'd like you to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40818	There is no reason to resist the honourable MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, what is much more important you have just given a partial answer, and I will only repeat it. Everyone doing their job would be much simpler for us because if we were here to report all those other than the attorney general, I think that the situation would be much better for us than the tax administration and the State Audit with their criminal charges to all those agencies that exist, then it would be much easier to ask how much of these proceedings you've realised and processing by the works that the chief attorney is responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40819	Thank you. And finally the sugar on, the whole sugar bar at the end, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40820	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. State's Attorney. Here today, or tonight in these a little late hours, you come with one I'd say decor which consists of not knowing if there's a non-permanent cat or cat, and then "Puma" from two days ago, and then 66 Marines, etc. Is that all the decor that's actually arranged for this presentation of your report on the work of the state's attorneys or is a coincidence I wouldn't get into it. It'll sound like it. And the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia at the head of you and other legal institutions in the Republic of Croatia, as well as this repressive apparatus, which has also been discussed in your presentation, there is a public perception that there is a deliberate or unintended cover-up of these corruption affairs and crimes, the biggest robbery that we actually see in the news tonight, as someone has said here, and from the top of the government itself. Also, the obstructions that occur in various species in the investigation are also the result of the action, order or interest of the top government itself, and according to the perception of the public, as well as our perception and the former prime minister himself who is now not present in the assembly that I am sorry, and I believe that he is not in the Republic of Croatia either. However, this did not bother the State Attorney's Office, led by you, to organise along with this man an unprecedented political heifer that resulted in an inadmissible verdict without justification and a sentence for 5 months in prison to Croatian General Branimir Glavas. Today, you've all been a little distracted here, especially from the opposition ranks that I belong to, the opposition, so here I know that you've done a very successful job of locating, identifying, arresting and transferring and general Gotovina. It would be convenient, and for the European Commission, this would be an extremely good indicator, and also for the mentioned Brammertz, if Mr. Bajic would now launch an investigation against Mr. Sanader because in the Glavas process he cited the State's Attorney's Office to those false witnesses or untrustworthy of whom Mr. Drmic spoke of not repeating here, they present evidence against Branimir Glavas. Despite the fact that these evidence at the trial at the County Court in Zagreb was killed by 240 witnesses. This points to the conclusion that you, Mr. Bajic and the Croatian judiciary are also manipulated by the authority and function of former Prime Minister Sanader. The HDSSB, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja is seeking, since there is not yet written a final judgment where you and Mr. Sanader should appear and clearly before the Croatian people and Europe admit whether they have been manipulated by the trial, and all because Branimir Glavas has actually exposed the head of the octopus. Head of crime and corruption in Croatia. And I'd like to ask you something else if you have information on how much money has been spent in the trial against Branimir Glavas? I have information that it's over 100 million kunas. Slavonia could use it in some other form, but unfortunately there's no such thing as money. The HDSB will appeal to the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg and use all its political power to expose a man who was familiar with all his affairs from Podravka, Brodosplit, HACA, HZ, HEP, Sunny Hvar, Index, Maestro, military trucks, etc. Not to count today, it's over our heads. And especially to Croatian citizens and who is actually quite responsible, who has ruined Croatian society and the state. And he probably thinks he's untouchable from the position of counsellors in Canada right now. Here is the opportunity for Croatian society and state, as well as the top political authority in the Republic of Croatia to rehabilitate Croatia's state on this example as a capable partner in the process of European accession, European integration, and in connection with European demands to combat corruption and crime. The HDZ states that the political power in the Republic of Croatia led by the HDZ government must be subject to the democratic procedure of early elections. The newly elected government will have the duty to stabilise the state, but also to introduce the rule of law finally in the Republic of Croatia. What someone here has said is that there is one apathy amongst Croatian citizens, that there is fear of those, that is, if it enters the whistles and something is reported, that there is the possibility of sending an inspection, that there is dusting as a method that actually prevents the reporting of corruption or criminal acts, we see it daily in our practice. In fact, 10 days ago, a press conference was held on a whistle in Slavonski Brod, which made it clear and loud, and reported machinations, as is said by the manipulation and criminal acts in Carinska, exhibited in Slavonski Brod, and in connection with some companies and companies operating in the area of Brodo-Posavina County and the town of Slavonski Brod. The same person had, at the time, until she had yet to attend the Whistle Association since the new year, delivered the same documents to all legal entities relevant for the launch of certain actions, investigations to determine whether or not this was the case. Here to this day we have no news of this case again on one affair. But here's the lady who got fired around New Year's Eve, so it doesn't work. So that's what some people mentioned. There are really actions, embarrassing actions that are actually being prevented, and when a name and last name person logs in, with a signature, for nothing again, as they say, the effort of the players is in vain, and then there is not enough rapid and effective reaction of the State's Attorney's Office. I just wanted to say, Mr. Shakespeare, I'm sorry, just to say the contents of your report on page 55, it's about the civil-government department. So I'm only asking you briefly, so how many cases have been activated and suppressed by the State's Attorney's Office since the amendment and addition of the Law on Mandatory Relations in the context of war damage. I think there's an increased number of cases just about that. And how much of it does the Republic of Croatia benefit from and how much it will be able to charge for what it has paid, so it is asking for a refund with a clear legal tightened interest, I believe that this success of the work of these civil-government departments will be below 50% of what is actually at work and what is actually how much that amount. And one more thing. The state's attorney's office had an offer to me. The Police Union appears to be in the holy three thousand police suits or even more for a settlement, but that deal didn't take place. But it went into a dispute where each hanging was paid every three thousand kuna financially. The cops won the dispute and the state paid 3,000 kunas per every cop for his sorcery. So now we count how much the state of Croatia and our taxpayers lost money in this process. Thank you very much. I had more but my time was up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40821	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll correct two incorrect allegations. The first false assumption that the top of the government is instigating the robbery. That is an incorrect colleague, Grubisic. The top government doesn't encourage any robbery and another incorrect assumption is that your colleague Branimir Glavas allegedly exposed some kind of octopus headed by the former prime minister. That's not true. That there was any octopus of that kind and he didn't reveal anything else and he hid something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40823	Final review of the chief state attorney, Mladen Bajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40824	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll say a few words anyway. It really wasn't easy being in the Croatian Assembly today, I have to admit. I'll also say that there have been a lot of constructive criticism, proposals, etc. which I wrote down, and next year we will certainly correct in our report no matter who wrote it. But I'm still trying to say a few words. I wasn't as angry as my colleague Leko said, maybe I reacted more explosively, something like my colleague Linic but not so much. I apologize for comparing you to yourself, myself to you, I'm sorry. It bothers me when it comes to the congregation's talk of obvious untrueness and it's from people who know they're wrong to say it, because they've heard it countless times that these things aren't true in spite of what they're saying. It bothers me the same way when a distinguished parliamentary representative apologizes, I forgot the name in the back row, which speaks of what the State's Attorney's office has taken, or economic crimes. I have no idea that we've been taking all these years on these economic crimes and we've even been doing a special bill and we've been reporting it in our previous reports and domestic work written in advance isn't the result of the debate in this House, I have to admit it bothers me. I'm also bothered by the fact that it's about conversion and privatisation that it's not in today's report. Of course he's not in this report because that report shouldn't have happened, but I must remind you that we have accused 339 persons in relation to the cases of privatisation and conversion, that the courts have reached 141 verdicts, of which 78 condemning, 57 liberating, that's true. Nine people have been sentenced to unconditional prison sentences. Also, self-initiativeally after one of those reports in the Croatian Parliament when we talked about conversion and privatisation, we tried to watch again, analyze the State Audit reports, and then again in addition to these reports or information that we had previously accused the new 33 people, we launched 39 investigative procedures, etc. At the same time in civil matters on the same State Audit Reports, etc. We have filed 243 lawsuits based on the provisions of the Law on the invalidity of certain types of contract, etc. Of course, within half an hour of the report or in this report that we are writing under the rules of the Law on State Attorneyy, or the law passed by the Croatian Parliament, which accurately states what our report must be made up of. I'm not saying it won't and it can't get any better. It could be better. Of course, anything can get better and that too. But not everything there is said or can be said what the State's Attorney's office is doing. Of course, if the state's attorney general or the attorney general is better off saying that I'm not hiding behind someone's back because I don't want to hide and I'm still walking straight down the street whether I need a blinded car or not. I don't need it. And I'm not afraid. Let him kill me the first time I leave Parliament. Never mind, I'm not afraid. Who's afraid to hide? For example, it bothers me. If my work can be assessed whether I'm using a armored car or not, it's not the best solution or analysis. I'm disturbed by the fact that it's unwarranted about the measures taken and the actions on war crimes. It is true that in Croatia since the 1990s, there has been a lot of work on war crimes cases but not enough or not enough at a time when it was necessary to provide evidence to process those of the Homeland War who have indeed committed crimes. And that's why we're from a historical distance now in trouble to secure that evidence. That is why we have taken a wide range of actions and measures to ensure the perpetrators in other countries and also links to some archives that are located outside the Republic of Croatia to obtain evidence. It is also a fact that for this crime that you mentioned on the island of Daxi is also conducted investigative actions, it is not questionable at all, we have talked about our report, etc. But not only for this, but also for some other Homeland War crimes, because crime really must have no restriction or color to show. Of course, I also agree with the distinguished representative Opačić, who says that in the known cases, media-exposed decisions must be taken immediately, no matter what they may be to stop any meals at the expense of the person who has been reported or in the media known to be the reason for the decision to determine her or at least raise her responsibility to the level of reasonable doubt and to go to court as we are told by the law. But the fact is, gentlemen, that a report of all these 200 thousand items can be found on our website by certain county state attorneys, where we talk about these cases, where we talk about the decisions we make there. In his report, Mr Lesar, or in his discussion, spoke of the items referred to in Article 114, which he was particularly interested in as a former union official. Unfortunately, he's not here. 118 rejections, 70 indictments and 68 convictions. Of course, it's in my report, but in that report, it's in those tables. We can't talk about every detail. We can't talk about any details. Public procurement. Public procurement is really a problem we're all aware of. We, at the State's Attorney's Office, specifically asked in the USKOK to strengthen our role and responsibility and results in the field of public procurement. Even at one point last year, just in this reported year, we asked those controlling public procurement whether the first-degree body was a second-degree body to give us any information with any doubts about public procurement. We got the answers you know which, there's no doubt. Now, of course, now the State's Attorney's Office should roll up their sleeves and control each of these cases. I mean, it's an impossible mission for people, a really impossible mission. Or, every other resident of the Republic of Croatia should be a state lawyer so you think about it. That's what I'm telling you honestly. But I don't think that's the answer. The solution is that every link in the system works and works. Now, a legitimate question has been raised why a state attorney doesn't say who doesn't work, who doesn't do it, etc. I was in the opening part of my report in a certain way talking about it. I was talking about what the position of the State's Attorney's Office is, what its role is and what instruments are available to it to fix the situation in certain segments. I don't want to hide, I'll tell you right now. I don't want to hide behind other bodies, it never occurred to me and I don't want to hide behind the independence of every state attorney within the Republic of Croatia. But I would really like to hear what Father Ostojić was talking about if all the bodies of the detection of repression were to be together in the Croatian Parliament, that their reports would be comparative and then to see who was doing what. I'm sure, gentlemen, each of you has been to a private lawyer for at least once in your life. How did you get to him? With a bunch of documentation in which you supported your arguments and the right to go against someone or someone you have to sue. Just remember that, and we're state lawyers, attorneys of the state who have to have bodies to serve us in all of this. They're standards. HEP, SOMETHING ABOUT HEP. It's exactly two years ago. It seems to me I've been through Operation Maestro. I must admit that Operation Maestro, regardless of the different opinions, was carried out the way the name itself reads and... I didn't give it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we checked everything and for all those who could go through the procedure we went. I point out, we were going because it was precisely these fund vice presidents' forewords in the way they did the work that was how to do it without the Supervisory Board knowing or not even knowing the president of the fund. I mean, I'm not defending anyone, I'm just telling you what we found in the files and it exists in the files. I'm not talking about other responsibilities. It's your business, the matter of politics, the matter of parliamentary debate in any segment but I'm talking about criminal responsibility, which is why the State's Attorney's Office is in charge. Slavon ship bombings, investigative operations, gathering information from a neighbouring country to gain command responsibility and eventually reach the responsible person who ordered this bombing, etc. Of course, as during this afternoon's debate, I remove all lunches compared to the subject of Glavas. I don't need to tell you that. The State Attorney's Office only acted in this case when it obtained enough material to go into proceedings and went into proceedings and received a first-degree decision. Neither I nor anyone else can speak of judgment until it becomes a power of attorney. And I'd just like to point out when we're talking about when the state's attorney reacts. He won't, and he can't react to everything. He can't react to every event in society and then evaluate and investigate whether there are reasonable doubts or not. The legislator, i.e. when you passed the law, you said when there are grounds for suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed, a state lawyer is obliged to act on a criminal application filed before that by the competent authority of detection. After that, if it proves or confirms or comes to those arguments that there is a reasonable doubt going to the second stage of the proceedings, it shall go to the court, etc. I won't explain it to you any further because you know it as well as I do. Gentlemen, the State's Attorney's Office report that tried to give you in short lines answers to the questions that the 570 state's attorneys were doing in 120,000 civil and 80,000 criminal cases. Of course, we certainly didn't do it the way you all expected because your standards and criteria are much stricter than they were in earlier years, I understand that. However, I believe, regardless of everything I said in the introduction that part of your exposure was indeed in order to help the State's Attorney's office set higher standards in the coming period and... quality in your work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to tell you that I don't know how I'm going to go to work tomorrow after this debate at the Croatian Parliament, because I'm not so sure that all the expensive criticism that might be justified, I may not see it and therefore apologize, how and how the State's Attorney's Office can stablely continue to do its job the way you would like it objectively and honestly. I thought we did it that way until today, but I can see that the good part of you doesn't think that's the way it is. That is why indeed if you consider my responsibility for it I would indeed be happy and pleased to ask the question of my personal responsibilities and whether I can even continue to do this job until the end of my term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40825	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40826	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State like the real name I forgot a little from last time. This is how you mentioned the State Audit in one segment of your closing speech. Namely, and I'd like to ask you if there is a criminal act, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40827	You can't ask a question to the main state...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40828	Okay. Here's the thing, maybe a suggestion then.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40829	No suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40830	Okay. It's a state audit she's given... in the affair trucks... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40831	Okay, Boro, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40832	... So don't turn it off. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So I'm correcting an incorrect quote about Glavas. You know very well that... He won the title of today's Glavas is gone. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So, the DORH is bound to make it happen. And further, I am also aware without investigative actions that the commander of the Banja Luka Corps who was responsible for 530 deadly civilians in Slavonski Brod was one class of children General Ignatia Fox. I know that from my experience, I know that from my own knowledge. It's no problem to know who he is, who he ordered.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-21-0.u40833	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with discussion of the proposal for a decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Proposers of 52 representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Fifthly, the 2008 report on the work of state lawyers is the applicant of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the state's attorneys in 2008. A year.". Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 70 votes in favour, 27 against a conclusion that accepts the report.
