ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38570	Honored ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. I am opening the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, Vice-President and Vice-Presidents and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - performing anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland" – Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, presidents and members of the Government, I invite you to honor our colleague, suddenly the deceased representative of Zvonimir Puljic, the late former representative of Mrs Savka Dabčević Kučar and the tragically deceased former representative of Srečko Kljunka, as well as the fallen Croatian defenders, all the civilians and victims of the war I burn for Croatia. - A moment of silence - May eternal praise and glory be to them! Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, the minutes of the 11th, 12th and 13th session of the Croatian Parliament were received at the session. Any objections to the records? If there are no objections, I would like to point out that we have adopted the minutes of the 11th, 12th and 13th session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I stress that the points we did not discuss at the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament are printed in smaller, thinner letters. In the final draft agenda, I included eight new points under regular number 8, and then under regular number 31 to 34, and from 53 to 55. These are the proposal for a law on special income tax from independent activity and other receipts, with the final proposal for a law, the emergency procedure, P.Z., is proposed. No. 446. Furthermore, the proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning “IPA – the Adriatic Cross-border Cooperation Programme” under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, with the Final Proposal for a Law. An emergency procedure is proposed, P.Z. 442. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning the “IPA cross-border programme Hungary-Croatia” under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, with the Final Proposal for a Law. Also emergency procedure, P.Z. 440. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning the “IPA cross-border programme Slovenia – Croatia” under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, with the Final Proposal of the Law. An emergency procedure is proposed, P.Z. No. 441. Proposal for a payment law with the Final Bill. An emergency procedure is proposed, P.Z.E. No. 443. Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2008. Retirement Fund 2008 report. And a report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2008. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 8 to 11 then points 13 to 25, paragraphs 27 to 34, which are proposed to adopt by emergency procedure. Please don't read them now. Later, we'll read each and every single one of them when we vote. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? There isn't. I would like to stress that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on dental activity with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure of the P.Z.E. No. Point 937. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Insemination with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 445, point 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products with the Final Proposal of the Law. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 444. point 11. Proposal for a Combined Transport Act with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 436, point 18. Proposal for a law on the State Commission to control the procurement procedure with the Final Proposal for a Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 429th point 24. Proposal for a law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications with the Final Proposal for a Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 430, point 25. And a proposal for a payment law with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. In accordance with Article 443 of Regulation (EU) No 161 of the European Union, they shall comply with the rules of the European Union and in accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, we do not vote to implement an emergency procedure in the adoption of these implementing laws. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor has asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38571	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38572	For the law on regulated professions? No, I don't. And then point 24. It means he's going to another reading. He's going to first reading. All right. Thank you. It is the law, the proposal for a law on the State Commission to control the procurement procedure with the Final Proposal of the Law. It's P.Z.E. No. 429th point 24 for which the government proposes to go to first reading. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. Please engage to check the quorum. The result? There are 93 MPs present who have joined. So we have a quorum, we can approach the vote and make a valid decision. First, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts. It's P.Z.E. No. Point 446.8. If there isn't, we'll go to the vote. Let us please engage and vote on the proposal that this law be followed by an urgent procedure. The result? The emergency procedure was voted in favour of 95 votes, 7 abstentions and 1 against. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. It's P.Z. No. 435 point 13. There isn't? Let's get involved and vote. I find the emergency procedure accepted by most votes, 78 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 23 against. Third. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the navigation of waterways and their marking and maintenance, P.Z.E. No. 410. There isn't? We're going to the vote. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. The result? The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 98 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 1 against. 4, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Public Roads, P.Z. No. 426, point 15? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. The result? I find the urgency of the procedure accepted by most votes, 95 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 6 against. 5., any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the 1996 Protocol Confirmation Act with the 1976 Convention on Minimum Standards on Commercial Ships, P.Z. No. 428, paragraph 16? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. The result? I find the urgency of the procedure accepted by most votes, 93 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against. 6, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Transport in Road Transport, P.Z. No. 439, point 17.? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. The result? I find the urgency of the procedure accepted by most votes, 80 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 6 against. 7, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Data Security Treaty, P.Z. No. 411, paragraph 19? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the urgency of the procedure accepted by most votes, 101 votes for and 4 abstentions, nothing against. 8, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified data, P.Z. No. 412, paragraph 20? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the urgency of the procedure accepted by most votes, 94 votes in favour, five abstentions and nothing against. 9, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 424, point 21.? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the urgency of the procedure accepted by most votes, 90 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. 10., Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in Montenegro and the Montenegrin Minority in the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 427, paragraph 22? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the emergency procedure accepted by most votes, 90 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. 11, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the basis of public service pay, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 425, item 23? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the urgency of the procedure accepted by most votes, 89 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 7 against. 12, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the financing of Croatia's participation in transnational programmes of European territorial cooperation, the European Regional Development Fund "South East Europe" and "Mediteran", within the framework of the 2008 cross-border cooperation of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) component, P.Z. No. 431, point 27. There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the urgency of the procedure accepted by most votes, 97 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against. 13, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the framework of the 2008 IPA cross-border cooperation component of the IPA financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the cross-border cooperation programme Croatia-Montenegro. 432, point 28. There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the urgency accepted by most votes, or unanimously by 97 votes. 14, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the framework of the 2008 IPA cross-border cooperation component of the law on the certification of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the cross-border cooperation programme Croatia-Bosnia and Herzegovina. No 433, point 29. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the urgency accepted by most 99 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against. 15, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the framework of the 2008 IPA cross-border co-operation component of the IPA financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the cross-border cooperation programme of Croatia-Serbia. Number 434, point 30. There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the urgency accepted by most votes, 101 votes for and one abstention. 16, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning the IPA programme of Adriatic cross-border cooperation under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, P.Z. number... , point 31. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the urgency of the procedure accepted by most votes, 98 votes for, 2 abstentions, nothing against. 17, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning the IPA cross-border programme of Hungary-Croatia under the Instrument of Pre-accession Assistance, P.Z. the number 440, point 32. There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the urgency of the procedure accepted by most votes, 92 votes for, 3 abstentions, nothing against. 18, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the framework of the Pre-Accession Assistance Instrument IPA Cross-border Programme of Slovenia-Croatia in the framework of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities. Number 441, point 33. There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find the urgency accepted by most votes, 93 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure can now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, with a call for a session on the acts referred to in points 8, and from 8, and from 31 to 34, we have declared ourselves on the occasion of a decision on urgency and they are included in the agenda. Is there any of the representatives objecting to points 53 to 55 of the final draft agenda which did not contain the draft agenda, which you received with the call for a session, which is the Annual Report on the work of the 2008 Competition Protection Agency, Report of the Pension Fund for 2008, Report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2008. Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38573	... diplomacy. [[Specially enabled.]] This silent diplomacy has produced some results that, unfortunately, have been interpreted in a different way to this day. Okay. It's a poltergeist. Can we go on? So since May 8th, when this House, this High House, made a decision on negotiating positions binding on the Croatian government, until a different decision was made, several important political and legal facts happened. Change compared to what the Croatian Parliament then adopted. I am looking at today, so days after that photo-seshion where the Croatian and Slovenian prime ministers announced the good news of the deblockation of Croatian accession negotiations, Slovenian Prime Minister Borut Pahor and already spoke twice before his parliament about what he had agreed with our prime minister and interpreted it in his own way. Our prime minister hasn't done it yet, and according to the proposal of this agenda, she has no intention of doing it. So that's the first appeal and I'll say what our proposal is in. The proposal for three SDP, HNS and IDS clubs to submit a report on what was agreed and what negotiations were held at this session under the first item of the agenda. Because I stress first that is her obligation, based on the decision already made by the Croatian Parliament which, apparently, after negotiations with Slovenia in the past few weeks has been changed, or if that is not how we want to find out, but in order to find out about it, the prime minister must inform this Parliament. I only mention some contradictory reports from our foreign ministry, and as another worrying fact, the Slovenian prime minister's performance in the Slovenian Parliament on Monday, which explicitly quoted me as saying "Croatia has committed to resolving the border issue before entering the European Union". We would like to hear that this is not true and that it has not deviated from the negotiating bases set by this House in its decision of 8 May. If it is, the Parliament's decision has been broken. These are just some of the reasons why our three clubs give the President of the Parliament a proposal or a request to include this item as the first item of this agenda and that the prime minister, in accordance with his legal and constitutional obligations, inform the Croatian Parliament and talk about how to avoid all the misunderstandings and false interpretations that have been us for the past year but also for the past 10 years, have led where we are and this is in a situation where the dispute has not yet been resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38574	Mrs. Representative Vesna Pusic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38575	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club also believes that the Prime Minister should inform the Croatian Parliament of the negotiations and conclusions of the negotiations with the Slovenian side and the part that led to the partial deblocking of our negotiations with the European Union and we welcome this and consider it to be a very important part of the other part of which we have learned something in part from the media and something from our Ministry of European Integration's statement concerning the continuation of negotiations between Croatia and Slovenia on the settlement of the border issue. So, we believe that we should include that the first item of the agenda is the prime minister's report on the course of negotiations, given that our conclusions and our views are common on the negotiations, especially as regards resolving the issue of the border. In addition, I would like to remind you that the Croatian Parliament reached its conclusion on 22 October 2008, that was the conclusion that we reached on the basis of Article 111. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the government's responsibilities towards parliament, and the conclusion is that once a year, the government will submit a report to Parliament on the state of the state in the state of the country in agreement with the club presidents. The end of the year of such a report is nearing which the Government is obliged to conclude by the Parliament, therefore this is also something to be done, the commitment that the government received from the Parliament at the end of last year should be prepared and submitted to the Croatian Parliament not only on this point which is directly relevant because in some elements in conflict with the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament but also on the fact that the change in the government's helm and all the consequences resulting from this and the basis of our parliamentary conclusion of 22 October 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38576	Thank you. I would like to warn the MPs and the MPs that the debate is on agenda points and that we concentrate on that. Since there were no objections at points 53 to 55, I believe that they are included in the agenda and I ask that we concentrate on this because the debate is on the agenda, or not on the debate, but on the agenda. Mr. Damir Cain, on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38577	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Representatives and members of the Government. Clearly, no one in this House is against the deblockation of negotiations between Croatia and Slovenia. Some questions, first of all, as to why the Parliament's decision has agreed to settle the arbitration court, no longer an international court, are contrary to this Parliament's decision. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Second, why we agreed to so-called. The second Rehn proposal the Parliament rejected, why we agreed to the proposal of Slovenia and the third why it agreed to the outcome of the dispute to be a touch of Slovenian territorial waters with open waters...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38578	Please, we're pleading on the agenda. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38579	How come you didn't interrupt some other MPs before, you warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38580	Because they were talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38581	I'm talking about what's done and what's finally gonna end up losing somewhere at least... miles of territorial waters in Piran Bay, like we lost...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38582	Mr. Caine is not an open debate, please don't get used to it here, but we concentrate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38583	This is done beyond the Parliament and behind the Parliament, denying the Croatian public. DA is this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38584	Are you proposing to include yourself in the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38585	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38586	Thank you very much. Mr. Lesar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38587	Can I explain the thought to the end?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38588	Mr. Lesar, go ahead. You can't explain because you're getting into the metrics, please sit down. Mr. Lesar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38589	Thank you, Mr. President. Based on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 8 May this year, I propose that this session be the item of today's agenda of the Prime Minister's report on negotiations with the Republic of Slovenia, so it is the conclusion of the topic so that we can only get an answer to one single question. Whether the continuation of negotiations between Croatia and Slovenia on the border dispute at the time of the continuation of the negotiations on the table will be empty paper or the second proposal by Olli Rehn since 15 June this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38590	Thank you. Please, Representative, Mr. Caine, I have warned that the campaign has not been officially launched, but here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38591	I'm bothered by Mr. President, this is yours, so to speak, Jordan, Pharaoh's behaviour. You've allowed some parliamentary deputies to normally explain...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38592	What article? Article 214(2)
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38593	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38594	Article 214(2)
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38595	... other MPs either exclude me or do not give me the opportunity to complete the thought, but I will remind you of the trace of what I was saying that recently Mr. Pahor stated that he considers this agreement between him and Mrs. Prime Minister... [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38596	Please. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Please, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr Cain has been invited to Article 214(2). Article 214(2) reads: a warning shall be given to the representative if he does not stick to the subject under discussion in his speech, as was the case. Second, it speaks and has not received the approval of the chairman, that is paragraph 2. So, please, it's debated and decided, it's not discussed, it's decided on the agenda. No objections to the agenda points. Mr Milanovic has also suggested that Mrs Pusic be involved, and you have joined, that this point be included as a item of the agenda and first and I ask that the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, be made known about this proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38597	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies' representatives and gentlemen's representatives. Well, I'll start from the end, actually. Because here is the proposal to discuss an important issue here, the fact that Croatia has succeeded and that our negotiations have been unblocked and that on 2 October, an intergovernmental conference will be held at which we will open and close chapters and that it is quite certain, as Commissioner Rehn announced, as you know that we can now arrive that plan, that map of the road we have foreseen, and that Croatia can indeed become a member of the European Union within the deadline set and provided for in agreement with the European Union. I'm surprised that here are some of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I say at least three presidential candidates have come forward, it bothers me. I think that even presidential candidates, whoever they are, and candidates would have to support the fact that Croatia continues its European path, that we are close to meeting one of its most important and greatest goals and foreign and domestic policy objectives, which is whether they are, that Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. I'm surprised you're trying to downplay that fact because there are economic indicators at the moment. ... Mr. Representative, I'm talking about the subject, and the topic is Croatia's future. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the theme is, because you're... Yes, of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, I'm surprised that you're having a problem with that because it's the very day that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Pahor and I agreed, that the favourable winds are on the way and on the economic side, look at the "Crobex" that has grown 7% and the stock trade has tripled, etc., etc. And now some arguments, i.e. non-arguments, which are expressed here, are presented in the request for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. It's completely false, I'll use a harder word, it's a lie, and I have to make it very clear that Croatia, as Mr Cain has already said, will lose some miles and miles of its territory today. Mr. Caine, I beg you nicely. Don't go public with those lies because they're transparent, because they're only meant for your presidential campaign. I wish you all good luck in that campaign, but please don't jeopardize in your campaign everything we've managed to do for the deblockation of the negotiations. As far as this history is concerned, in fact, a few days of agreement with Prime Minister Pahora. Yeah, we had three meetings, we agreed to do quiet diplomacy in the meantime. It's not a secret diplomacy that works on one side or the other. We agreed to send a letter to the Swedish Presidency of the European Union, to the Swedish Prime Minister. That letter is public, that letter you saw, that letter if you didn't see it, I can hand it to you now. On the basis of this letter, the Swedish Presidency responded to me and that is all of what we agreed. These letters say that, as you wish, we, as you wish, will be asked to read the solution or way of resolving the border dispute, to continue negotiations between Croatia and Slovenia, and to facilitate the European Union. These are the documents Croatia has submitted in this process of negotiations so far, that none of these documents prejudge the border. It's all about everything any party has done since June 25, '91, that's not a legal basis for setting the border. And that's to you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, everything we've agreed on. Everything we agreed on we made it clear in Ljubljana at a press conference and Mr. Pahor and I. We said we'd pick up where we left off. And where were we? We stopped in June this year. So, nothing has been arranged, I repeat again, under the table. Nothing's been arranged that's classified. I'm asking you to read both letters. If necessary, the legal experts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia may also assist you. After we finally agreed and after we agreed on Thursday afternoon that I would go to Ljubljana on Friday to finish that part of our work, I naturally called first the presidents of the ruling coalition, after which the opposition leaders. Ms Pusic came from the opposition's representative as the chairman of the National Committee and Mr Serb. Mr Milanovic, who is asking a question today for discussion in the Croatian Parliament, said that he was being sent too late, and I thought, of course, that someone else could come on behalf of the SDP, quite certainly. Perhaps there is a SDP presidential candidate in the election for the President of the Republic of Croatia. However, as this did not happen, I can only say that at a meeting in the government, we presented a letter, explained what it was, that both Mrs Pusic and Mr Srb, who was on behalf of the HSP at that meeting, made a positive statement on the agreement and on the fact that the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union were unblocked. I'll quote to you Mr. Cain what you said on May 24th in the New List statement when you're having a problem with this deal today. "Croatia will accept new negotiations, but only in case Slovenia currently unblocks Croatian accession negotiations in return." Mr. Caine, we did it. So, in accordance with your demands, I've arranged for a follow-up and a deblockation. Mrs Pusic, on 8 May, "All this assumes that this draft and this joint statement will be accepted by the Slovenian side, because if it does not come to that, of course, and this whole process is actually just formal and one species".../ Speaker off./... Mrs Pusic yourself said that "a joint statement by the Parliament on 8 May, namely Commissioner Rehn's first proposal on arbitration, is not a solution to the problem unless it is accepted by the Slovenian side". Itd., etc. I could still quote what someone said. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to accept the fact that Croatia continues negotiations to join the European Union, that our negotiations are unblocked, that we will open and close at least 12 chapters, I believe, and probably more at the first Intergovernmental Conference to be held as I said on October 2nd and that this is the fact that we need to discuss. I repeat, everything agreed in these two letters. Nothing else was agreed, nothing else was signed. And you, Mr. President, can open the debate here every day about it, I personally don't mind, but nothing more than what I'm telling you right now I can't just tell you because nothing else is true. And that because of your political interests, you can try every day to make me lie, claim in public that I'm lying, that the government is lying, that there's an agreement under the table and something secret, that's, of course, your chance you can do it. But I call on you not to do it, but I invite you all to work together, to finish negotiations. We are left with the adoption of 7, 8 laws which you will discuss in the Croatian Parliament. I suggest that if there is any need to come to any of the boards of the Croatian Parliament, on the National Committee, on the Vanj-political Committee, to discuss it indefinitely. But I think neither there nor here at the plenary session, I don't think, but I know, there's nothing more to say. And you can quote what Slovenian politicians say, which is spoken in the Slovenian Parliament, but we are here in the Croatian Parliament. And we have agreed that this is really a win-win situation where everyone wins. But I believe that you who seek this debate agree with me and us in the Government, that we must solve the border problem with Slovenia. We're two friendly neighboring countries, we'll live here forever. And the message of the deblockation of Croatia's negotiations is a good message and encouragement to all of Southeast Europe as well. I believe you support it. We will strongly support our neighbours on that European path. And if I were on the right path myself, because you're calling me, I think he's saying the letter that I got from Mrs. Hilary Clinton's secretary of state, which she points out, that's what I can say because the letter is public and my personal leadership, and I don't think you see anything wrong in that either. I believe that, though. There, Mr. President, for these reasons, the government doesn't think there's a need for a debate of this kind that, with the rest of it, would be expendable. But I don't want to talk about it, it's not mine to say. So the government proposes to discuss this because there is no particular reason to discuss it. But please, you, MPs and MPs will decide on that. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38598	Is it a correction or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38599	Your Honor, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the SDP Club... for this question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38600	Please, we're laying down the agenda, so once we've established it, then you can look for a break. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38601	Before a break so I wouldn't forget about her, first the correction of an incorrect quote. I'll take you, Madam President Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38602	Not first, but only.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38603	That you do not sign the correction of an incorrect quote, you do not sign it, because after that there is no turning back knowing which direction your conversations will go. However, it is not true what you claim to be your letter is everything. No one in this House is bothered either by the deblockation. Then where's the problem? The problem is in this press release 344/09, which literally reads "The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Jadranka Kosor and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Borut Pahor, agreed to continue the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, and to continue negotiations in the resolution of border issues on the basis of a proposal from 15 June 2009. And we're just looking for, so you can give us those records or I don't know those acts that the Foreign Ministry signed. No one said you signed those acts. Let us know. Mr. Academyman Rudolph, he calls it no less, no more note. As a result, Mr Rudolph is withdrawn from this Commission for negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. And this will ultimately end with major territorial concessions in favour of the other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38604	It's past time to correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38605	I have no surprise at all by the claim that it is the greatest foreign-political success of the Republic of Slovenia since Racan-Drnovsek's parade. Just as we'll probably be barefooting the thorn,... We'll go down... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Speaker off....and not only political, but also other conconsequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38606	Thank you. You've passed the time as usual. And we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Vice President Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38607	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 204(3) has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The article states that the President of the Parliament is obliged to propose a supplement to the agenda when he asks for it during the session, this is the course of the session in writing one-third of the total number of MPs. That's exactly what happened. One third of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament have launched this procedure in accordance with this Article. The lists have been collected and simply the President of the Parliament has no business opportunity to give word to the Prime Minister, nor ask the Prime Minister's opinion on whether or not it is necessary or not to propose such an addition to the agenda. Therefore, Mr President, in line with Article 204(3) and in accordance with the procedure launched, you shall propose to supplement the agenda without further discussion and any further opinions of the Government or of anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38608	All this would be true if the president of the Croatian Parliament received the written proposal 1/3 of the MPs. Please don't lead us astray. No proposal from one-third of the MPs at this table or the President's office has come. Therefore, yours Here it is now, here it is when they brought it... [[Intruder: They just brought in.]] Well, when you brought it in, it did. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] How was I supposed to know this existed if I didn't get it? Don't laugh! Don't laugh and don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. During the session of the Parliament, we will put this proposal on the agenda, which is binding on me by the Rules of Procedure. And now, please, Mrs. Pusic, the correction of Mrs. Pusic's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38609	Thank you, Mr. President. So, two incorrect allegations if I may, Madam Prime Minister. First of all, I think it's wrong and in some way, to refer cynicalally to people who speak as presidential candidates in the House, because they don't speak as presidential candidates, but as club presidents, only if you think they should be suspended as club presidents. So we're doing our parliamentary work, and I think the government has to respect that. Many of us sitting in this House have done a lot of quiet and different kinds of other diplomacy to come to this deblockation... Yes, yes, since you've been on the list against Croatia's entry, so since the time you've been on the list against Croatia's entry into the European Union, you don't care about other people's feathers. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Secondly, the prime minister is in her own exposure...... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] I'm begging you, I mean... the team has taken over too much joy. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] So, the prime minister proved by her presentation that there is something to be said about this in the Croatian Parliament because she herself was going into exploitation. If that's the whole truth, then we need to know that it's the whole truth and that's behind it. The second incorrect allegation is therefore not the first Rehn's proposal for a solution... /The speaker is excluded./... if not accepted by the other side. Don't shut me down, you might hear something. So it's not Rehn's proposal for a first solution unless the other side accepts it. You're welcome for the second proposal. It is not the second Rehn proposal to decide if it is not accepted by the Croatian side. Did you accept this second proposal from Rehn there as the basis for a solution? That's what the Foreign Ministry's statement.../Speaks off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38610	Thank you very much. Before the agenda is established, there is no break under the business order. Therefore, there were no objections at points 53 to 55. In accordance with Article 205, I should now read the entire agenda, so please do not read that agenda in the spirit of tradition. The proposal presented to the Croatian Parliament five minutes ago will be made public during the session, and I now determine that the agenda has been adopted to amend the first reading point of point 24. Then, at the request of Mr. SDP club president, we will also give a 10-minute break after the agenda is established. And now I find that the agenda has been accepted and we begin to ask questions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. ... Please, Mr. Mimica. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38611	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 204(3) has been re-injured. The Rules of Procedure, since the President of the Assembly does not have the right to decide during the sitting when he will propose an addition to the agenda, but this item speaks of the fact that 1/3 of the total number of representatives during the session may request some inclusion. Therefore, as soon as 1/3 of the MPs during the session are asked to do so, the president is obliged to propose it immediately in addition to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38612	In Article 204(2), except in the cases referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3, an amendment of the agenda may not be proposed at the meeting of the Assembly. Since the proposal didn't arrive but arrived five minutes ago, I guess there's a normal situation when the proposal needs to be read. So when I read it and when it's actually divided into all MPs, and nobody gets it but me, then we'll decide. Now we move on to asking questions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and please...... Please move on to asking the Government questions of the Republic of Croatia because we have established the agenda. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] And if Mr. Milanovic insists on a 10 minute break then he can. Then on the SDP search for a 10-minute break. Here you go. Thank you. Zoran Milanovic, come in. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38614	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government. I see the prime minister has continued where the Prime Minister and her predecessor left off. It's a very important thing. Let's put the ball on the ground. I also said that in an act right after Prime Minister Pahor and Prime Minister Kosor spoke to the public and informed about the results of negotiations and silent diplomacy. So, we're not accusing anyone of treason, I'm not talking about any loss of a hundred or how many kilometers of a square Croatian territorial sea. I'm talking about some kind of procedure and institutions that make up democracy, strong nations do. We have facts. In the past 10 days, the Slovenian prime minister has formally performed before their parliament first on the Slovenian Parliament's foreign-political committee, the National Assembly, and on Monday, too. Twice. It is understood, therefore, that in situations like this, a representative body stems from the mandate of the government and the prime minister and the Prime Minister and that Parliament is told and introduced to the most important ingredients. Since the prime minister is an education lawyer and has that kind of experience, then she knows what is important in the negotiations, which is the negotiating and initial basis in the international contract. Let us not use, without need, some clumsy experience from the past and this Parliament as well. But then at least your predecessors had the courage, the insolence and the responsibility to go before this Parliament, to explain to him what they were behind and where they were possibly wrong. Let's not do this! So, your Slovenian colleague performed twice in front of Parliament and in those performances on two occasions, speaking of the essential ingredients of your agreement, he said things that were contrary to what you said. The Croatian Foreign Ministry made it clear in its statement that the basis for the continuation of the negotiations was the second Rehn proposal since 15 June. I stress the basis for the continuation of the negotiations. The second Rehn's proposal by nature of things cannot be the same as the first Rehn's proposal to take this House as a basis. Let's see what rehn's second proposal is, what's in it. Is any legal formulation for which the foreign minister's legal adviser resigned a bad thing for Croatia or perhaps an acceptable thing for Croatia, or is something more unfavourable than the previous solution. But the point is, one decision has been made in this House. You must not answer him in a way that someone calls you as in a mere school, but you must explain to him, you must come before Parliament, you must come before the board. You call the Economic Council instead. All right, but you could have done it some other day. That's what this is about. So we don't lecture you here, we don't talk about hyperboles, we don't talk about loss of territory, we don't talk about any betrayal. We're talking professional and responsible business management. If your colleague from Slovenia can come twice before their Parliament, then you can at least once. And I'm surprised, I'm surprised you didn't accept our proposal to put this item on the agenda. It will, fortunately, be included in the agenda with the following provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and I cannot believe that you are against it, because in your address you have actually entered into an argument. You've made my argument not clear enough and not to the end. You have not denied what the Slovenian side claims. You did not deny what the Slovenian prime minister said two days ago in the Slovenian Parliament, and he said, quote and repeat, that Croatia has committed that the border dispute will be resolved until Croatian entry into the European Union. So tell him not to tell the truth. And yet we don't think it's a disaster. Maybe it's a possible solution. Perhaps the suggestions in Rehn's proposal number two are something we can discuss. But what's important is that Rehn's proposal number two is something that's going to be the basis for the arbitration agreement tomorrow. That's the foundation. So the provisions are the basis and that's why it matters what it says. And yet I'm not saying it's a Croatian twilight and it's a disaster, but it's important. And that's the procedure in every parliament, in the American Congress. It's an institution. And I really don't want to give you a lecture, because I don't have the right to do it, and I don't think that's right, and that's what our conversation is all about, and I expect you to suggest it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38615	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Because I see some other clubs have come forward that I haven't seen, but the service has recorded.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38616	Your Honor, Mr. President, Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So let me continue where Mr. Pahor stopped, that the greatest foreign-political success of the Republic of Croatia from Racan – Drnovšek's Paraph is exactly what happened on 15.11. or 11 September in Ljubljana. As a parliamentary representative from Istria, who as one who participated in all events related to Croatian-Slovenian relations in which local self-government participated, means from “Istra brewery” to “Cimos”, from the award of concessions against the decision of our government in Piran Bay, although I held that I was doing well, and it was fortunately brought to life from the reply of Racan along with Mr. Debeljuh to give 1.5 hectare around Joras' house. I am obliged, my moral obligation is to say that Mrs. Kosor has unblocked the negotiations, but I am personally afraid that this agreement Kosor-Pahor no longer has an agreement. Racan-Drnovšek leads to a certain loss of territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid that definitely will eventually live for Croatia this harmful paraphrased agreement. I ask so much to publish the entire minutes or I don't know what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia was doing from 11.9th to 11.9th because we see here in a statement that spokeswoman Mario Dragun, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, no. In fact, 344/09 says that the continuation of negotiations in resolving the border issue with the European Union's relief on the basis of a proposal of 15.9.2009. Once again, I will say that no one in this House is against the deblockation of negotiations. The question arises, however, why did the Parliament agree to the dispute being resolved by the arbitration court, not by the International Court? Why did we agree to the so-called. "the second rehn's proposal" which this parliament refuses, it does not accept. And why has it agreed that the outcome of the dispute should be the touch of Slovenian territorial waters with open seas or open waters? In order for this to happen, this will mean that Croatia must turn some of its territorial waters into international waters. It's absolutely harmful if it's finally achieved that way. Second, I hear Mrs. Prime Minister throwing something at me, and I want to defuse you one more time. What did I say, we just printed my 24.5 statement? I said that the Parliament should remain at its decision to accept Rehn's plan, that is the first plan, and hope that the International Community will eventually press Slovenia to separate the issue of borders and unblock negotiations between Croatia and Slovenia. We gentlemen, what is most painful, have this unfortunate announcement 344/09. I don't think anyone can say anything after this unfortunate announcement, so I'm just behind a statement I've sent or sent up to Sweden and I'm not concerned. I am not running away from the fact that this statement could go away if it wasn't for denying the parliament, which Mr Milanovic also spoke of, but agreeing to the 15.6 negotiations, I don't think it should be accepted. And finally, I suppose this Parliament has the right to documents signed by someone on behalf of the Government or the Foreign Minister because I am afraid to make a commitment. It's the same as those unfortunate artillery logs. We've got a few of them, so we don't have them. That way we played with The Hague a little bit, okay. But there's something else here. I am afraid, the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia, along the western coast of Istria, will say that the next day Slovenian fishermen will be able to fish 2, 3 kilometers, no more 12 miles, from one Umag, Savudrija or down Lovrečica. All in all, I'm just asking to simply let us know what has been agreed and what has been discussed in Ljubljana? How do these unfortunate notes show that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I quoted earlier, accepted, observed, started on June 15, 2009?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38617	We have one rectification of an incorrect quote, Vice President Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38618	Representative Cain is telling the truth, he says, is an incorrect allegation that in the documentation which is the subject of this dispute, there would be any prejudge to step down, join and lecture Croatian state territory if it were owned by these negotiations. In a letter from the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, the Swedish Presidency of the European Union, says: "Decision or way of resolving the border dispute will be required in the follow-up of negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia with the relief of the European Union." Also in a letter from the President of the Swedish Government, the Swedish Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor, states: "The Swedish Presidency notes that both sides have agreed to continue negotiations on reaching an agreement on a border dispute with the facilitatement of the Presidency of the European Union and it is understood that both letters form an integral part of the accession documents." So everything else is just lies and structures. It is only true and true that the prime minister and the prime minister agreed solely and only what was written and drawn up in this letter sent to the Presidency of the Swedish European Union and the reply of the Swedish Prime Minister's Presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38619	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38620	I thank Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think there's anyone in this House who's not interested and who's not glad they're unblocked, even if they're only partially unblocked by our negotiations. So there's no dispute about it. On the other hand, we are in a dispute that is tied to the border, but then it has become a matter of negotiations with Slovenian partners, so to speak, in a dispute and it is clear that the resolution of each dispute involves some compromise. Therefore, it is not disputed either. It is only a dispute that because of a perhaps unfortunate, perhaps clumsy statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is doubt in the public and in Parliament that we are not familiar with the whole truth. As far as the arbitration tribunal is concerned, this is not disputed because the first proposal also mentions the possibility of forming an arbitration court. The European Union has always, at least since 2003, not before, but since the end of 2003 has been the subject of consensus in this House. So ever since HDZ moved to the side of the pro-European orientation, the European Union has become the subject of consensus in this House. We did not go out when it came to European Union issues, but we always worked on it together and supported it, regardless of what we were in opposition. Therefore, in this respect, I do not see that this should now be interrupted, nor that it should be interrupted in any way. There's no need to turn this into any terrible dispute. Only in clearing up the facts and respect for the institution of Parliament that has the right to do so and which, in some ways, is the one that will give the last amen in any case, so the last opinion on anything agreed. I therefore propose that, given that we have agreed that even the business needs of this item enter into the agenda, perhaps the best solution is to conclude that the point of the Croatian Parliament's report on the course of the negotiations enters the agenda of this session and when it comes to the agenda, then as Parliament discusses this report, and we are discussing it. I think it's one solution that satisfies everything and in no way should be the subject of dissension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38621	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go. And Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38622	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's what I would do to correct the incorrect allegations of colleague Pusic, who said that the reason for this debate was just to clear up the facts about the dispute. If that was the reason I thought it would be enough what we had on the National Committee last week. We had this item on the agenda that we discussed, if I'm not mistaken, for almost two hours, and the representatives of the government made it very clear that everything we had had the opportunity to hear from President Kosor that there was nothing beyond the letters given to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38623	Thank you. Vice President Shakespeare, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38624	Mrs Vesna Pusic said and determined one moment when the Croatian Democratic Community, when HDZ decided to join Croatia's pro-European orientation. Mrs Pusic, the pro-European orientation of the Croatian Democratic Community is also inaugural in the first draft of the Croatian Democratic Community programme of '89. The year and consistently and strictly implemented itself in the entire policy of the Croatian Democratic Community from this programme document to this day. One of the key parts of the strategic foreign policy programme of the Croatian Democratic Community was Croatia's entry into Euro-Atlantic integration, the European Community then, now into the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38625	Thank you. Correction. ... Oh, no, well, I've recorded that before. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now, it's on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38626	Dear Mr. President, Madam President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have held a debate on inclusion in the agenda, the business order is fulfilled by the representatives who signed the request and we will vote on the inclusion in the agenda. Personally, I find that completely unnecessary. It seems to me that I have the impression that this debate today was triggered not because the prime minister signed in a letter sent to the Swedish prime minister, because there is really nothing controversial there, but that it was encouraged by the presidential campaign. I am now not speaking as a candidate for president, but I am speaking as president of the Croatian Democratic Community club that has preceded from its draft as Mr Shakespeare has now quoted to this day in the idea of Croatia becoming a member of European integration. The Croatian Democratic Community asked for it even when some of the West was an ideological enemy. To us, that was the goal of integration. So today we are doing nothing to slow it down, but the prime minister of an extraordinary extra-diplomatic move, negotiations with Mr. Pahor, managed to unblock the negotiations. And all the time, it emphasizes that the deblockation is separate from the discussion of the border dispute, and we believe it, because it comes from the letter you have before you, which it sent to the Swedish president. Second. In the problem of selling Croatian territory for the purposes of achieving full membership in the European Union, we have made our position clear there is no purchase of membership with the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's what we stay with, we repeat it and repeat it. The prime minister also denied the lies coming from some media this morning, in which she allegedly promised in some agreements to start with the contents of the second Olli Rehn plan. No, I don't. It was said to start from that date because it was the last official document in an attempt by the European Union to resolve the border dispute. It starts from the date when Olli Rehn's second proposal, Olli Rehn's proposal was put on a political scene, not from its content that Croatia did not accept. Therefore, I find this politicized. I believe that the prime minister will respond to this and that any further debate that would make negotiations difficult will be excessive. Those who say they should have gone public before are also wrong, as an integral part of Prime Minister Kosor and Prime Minister Pahor's negotiations is precisely whether they do not go out with details, so as not to cause negative reactions either in one, or in another neighbouring and friendly state. With this I think we are muttering the water that is clear and that leads Croatia into negotiations and that allows us to unbound these membership negotiations in the European Union to continue negotiations on the border dispute, and where there will be borders and how this dispute will be resolved nowhere but, I repeat, there is no purchase of membership for the sale of Croatian territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38627	Thank you. We have two corrections. First is Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38628	Mr. President, Mr. Hebrang, the Honorable Mr. Hebrang has said that this proposal will be declared, so on the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, this is the item of the agenda, given that it has signed more than one third of the MPs. However, I believe that in this request it is said to be the first item of the agenda and not only to be placed on the agenda, so that the order of the eye, it is a correction of the incorrect quote, to come to order around Christmas, because Christmas could happen in negotiations with Slovenia. I see no reason why Prime Minister Pahor did this twice in front of the Slovenian Parliament not to do so by our prime minister here in front of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38629	Correction by Mrs. Vesna Pusic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38630	I thank you for correcting my colleague Hebrang, who said that September 15th is only the date after which he continues where he cares for September 15th, because in a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the European Integrations of the Republic of Croatia, it is said that it is precisely the document that appeared on that day. But it's no big deal if there's no problem, let's just talk about it anyway, but I'm just warning you it's not true that it's just about that date, it's about a concrete document.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38631	And another club, Mr. Chehok HSLS SDAH.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38632	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. We have had twice as much convergence in the process of joining the European Union, unfortunately at one point they have become divergent and it is clear to all of us that we must approach and end the negotiations successfully and, on the other hand, reconcile our relations and disagreements with Slovenia. I think the prime minister did well to answer the question today, and I think that all those who want to, in particular, have business opportunities to impose this topic. What the Prime Minister was saying today, I think a bon a fide is enough for now, given that it is clear to all of us that we are protecting and strengthening our negotiating position and is not exactly because of the Croatian public that Pahor spoke at the plenary session, Pahor spoke to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Therefore, let's not confuse things, Slovenians also have something different procedure, hence the prescribed procedure for deblocking negotiations than we do. Slovenians prepare the public for deblockation in their own way, we do it and we should do it our way since they are not the same procedures that unblock negotiations or which continue our mutual negotiations on borders. Therefore, why do you open your hips today, weaken your position if everything that has been sent to the Swedish Prime Minister and also another letter, it is a good basis for all of us, of course, to think together about the future and the principles of the negotiations. When it happens and if it happens, let's not forget that by October 2, we have another ten days. As far as Slovenia is concerned, as far as I am concerned, it is not yet certain how it will go with them, I think it would be complete, if you want not only a strategic but rhetorical weakness of the position that we are talking about today something that Slovenians may have to talk about for their internal political opportunities and because of a different procedure. So, it's one thing to speak on the outside-political committee, but I don't think there's any reason why we're opening this issue right now at the plenary session, in any way, especially since the Prime Minister has made it very clear that we're all missing all of us now. Let's not do it that way. Let us understand that this is a delicate international moment and a delicate diplomatic negotiation, and there is no sense in Parliament's weakness in the position of the government that it will decide afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38633	Thank you. We have three corrections. First up is Mr. Boris Sprem. And Vinkovic. Then it's Dragutin Lesar before that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38634	I am correcting Mr. Chehok's claim that Madam Prime Minister spoke very clearly today and explained all possible issues. A fundamental issue that is interpreted differently by politicians in Slovenia and our Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that the negotiations continue on the basis of the second proposal by Olli Rehn, and the Prime Minister argues that this is not true. And finally, how can a colleague of the Czechos not be interested in what it says in the second proposal of Ollie Rehn, regardless of what he might look different in the finals? Shouldn't the Croatian Parliament even get that as a basis for continuing negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38635	Thank you. Mr. Shime Luka's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38636	Thank you very much. In fact, on the same track, colleague Chehok said that the letter was sent to Sweden the only thing, unfortunately that's not the only thing. There's a statement from the foreign ministry and what would be correct is just telling us what's going on with that statement. It would satisfy me personally if the government said that negotiations would not start with positions, or other talks with Rehn, because that means by chance if it started with those positions that the government would step down, it would be correct to give some guarantees if there was nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38637	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38638	I am surprised by this statement by Mr. Chehok that the Croatian Parliament could weaken the positions of the government. I thought he was a big Democrats, but apparently this is his opinion of the Croatian Parliament. But see for yourself the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament that he has made in the negotiations with Slovenia. And right now the debate in the Assembly can strengthen Croatia's positions, because if there is no debate in the Assembly, we could be left without the Piran Bay, without St. It's Gere, but it's rich without George's house.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38639	Thank you. We've exhausted the discussion of the club representatives' reports. I now ask the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38640	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here I will try really as summed up as possible to repeat my position once again, but also the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this issue which, unfortunately, one part of the opposition is trying to trouble me, I will try again. I am a little sad, even if it is the fact that neither I nor the Government, the opposition deputies have given me and you have not given me confidence in the Croatian Parliament, which I understand, but I am saddened by the fact that you do not trust me and I will say it very openly, perhaps it is not particularly diplomatic, that you trust another Prime Minister, but to the Prime Minister of your Government, the president of your government you do not trust and you do not actually express your mistrust and in fact from some of the debates, first of all, I think of Mr Cain, it is quite clear that the claim that can be summed up in one sentence, which is that the Croatian prime minister is not telling the truth and that the Croatian prime minister translately lies. I'm telling you once again that everything that's been expressed in the form of doubt is not true. So, what I have agreed with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia stands, I repeat once again, in my letter to the Swedish Prime Minister, the Swedish Presidency and in response to the President of the Kingdom of Sweden's reply to me. So, these two letters are the basis for that important fact, for that important moment for all of you and for all of us, I think of you, when I talk to you, it's the Croatian Parliament. When I say "government" for us, but also for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I repeat once again, the deblockation of Croatian negotiations and the certainty that we will finish this job, however, and that Croatia will become a member of the European Union, that Croatia will be able to sit at the table of the European peoples, at that table as the 28th member of the European Union and be where we all think together in the Croatian Parliament, all together in the Government, that all political parties in the Republic of Croatia, that we belong to this truly civilization circle. And then I refer to that civilization circle that I'm talking about. So, trust, a minimum of trust in what your prime minister and your government are negotiating over the deblocking. What did I set up? I'll read the letter to the Swedish prime minister today. "Dear Prime Minister, in a meeting with Prime Minister Borut Pahor in Trakoscan on 31 July 2009, we agreed that the continuation of Croatia's accession negotiations with the European Union, as well as the solution of a bilateral border dispute, with the relief of the European Union, are two objectives for both countries, Croatia and Slovenia. In this context, with the intention to remove the reserves Slovenia has on several negotiating chapters, I would like to state on behalf of the Croatian Government that no document in our accession negotiations with the European Union can prejudge the final solution to the border dispute between Croatia and Slovenia. The above concerns all documents and views, whether written or submitted orally, including among other maps, negotiating positions, legal acts and other documents in any form produced, presented or referred to by the Republic of Croatia in the framework of accession negotiations with the European Union. This also applies to all documents of the European Union and to the points of view indicating or assembling the above mentioned documents or points of view. A solution or way of resolving the border dispute will be sought in the follow-up of negotiations between Croatia and Slovenia with the relief of the European Union." Please pay attention to this sentence. "It is also agreed that both sides will continue negotiations on resolving the border dispute, meaning that the border dispute or hand over to the arbitration court or conclude a bilateral agreement on the common state border in line with the main priority expressed in the accession partnership with Croatia and with the intention to meet them." Here, I ask you all to look for the text of the approach partnership and read what it says there. "Both sides are also agreeable that June 25th, '91. It is the basis for resolving the border dispute and that no document or action taken unilaterally by one of the parties after that date will be given any legal importance for the tasks of any arbitration court or any other procedure related to the settlement of the border dispute between Croatia and Slovenia which will be authorised by Croatia and Slovenia, resolves the border dispute and cannot in any way prejudge the outcome of the proceedings. Given that we have properly removed Slovenia's concerns about prejudged the border between Croatia and Slovenia, we call on the Swedish Presidency to call an intergovernmental conference to continue Croatia's accession negotiations with the European Union immediately. Based on this letter of mine that I'm finishing, the Honorable Prime Minister, I'm going to read everything so that someone doesn't say I skipped something, "take the expressions of my special respect." And on this basis, the letter signed by Mr. Frederick Reinfelt, President of the Swedish Government, arrives from Stockholm on 15 September 2009. "Dear President, the Swedish Presidency welcomes your letter, which has properly removed Slovenia's reserves regarding the pre-determining of the border between Croatia and Slovenia in the negotiating chapters. Following consultations with the Republic of Slovenia and understanding that the guarantees provided by the Republic of Croatia are sufficient to raise its reservations for opening and closing negotiating chapters related to Slovenia's reserves on the pre-destination of the border between Croatia and Slovenia, the Swedish Presidency will therefore convene an intergovernmental conference on 2 October 2009 to continue Croatia's accession negotiations with the European Union. The Swedish representation takes note that both sides agreed to continue negotiations on reaching an agreement on a border dispute with the relief of the Presidency of the European Union, saying that the border dispute or surrender to the arbitration court, so what I am writing in my letter, "or conclude a bilateral agreement on the common state border in line with the main priorities expressed in the accession partnership with Croatia and with the intention to meet them. The continuation of negotiations between Croatia and Slovenia on the border dispute will be called at the same time as the Intergovernmental Conference. It is understood that both letters form an integral part of the Intergovernmental Conference on the Accession of Croatia to the European Union and the President-in-Office of the Government, please receive the terms of my greatest respect." Here, ladies and gentlemen, that's all we talked about and that's all I signed. And as you know what the Swedish Prime Minister signed. I repeat, nothing else has been arranged. You mention many times a press release from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that it was sent at the time when a heated, fierce debate was held in the Committee on Foreign Policy, together with the Committee on European Affairs of the Slovenian Parliament, because they had to and should have made a decision on the deblocking. Therefore, on the basis of a situation which I am not going to convince myself there, because I did not attend, so it is not appropriate for me to say anything about it, is a special statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, based on what Prime Minister Pahor and I said in Ljubljana. And when the talks continue, then they must continue from the moment they are interrupted. It's like traveling from Ilock, for example, to Dubrovnik, so stop in Vinkovci because your car broke down and you can't leave until you run it. And then you say I'm going from Vinkovci to Dubrovnik, but your goal is Dubrovnik and the goal is to get to Dubrovnik. Therefore, I continue my journey from Ilock, across Vinkovac to Dubrovnik. When I arrive in Dubrovnik and I am welcomed there by Mayor Vlahusic and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Mrs Suica and Mr Frano Matušić, then I will be happy and satisfied. So here and here, our goal is Croatia's entry into the European Union. I didn't make any arrangements beyond what I wrote. And I end up, opening a debate at a plenary session in the Croatian Parliament, as far as I'm concerned, and the government would have come down to this. So I can tell you that I didn't agree to anything, that of course I didn't betray Croatian national interests, that the truth is that as Mr. Cain says, I sold 115 square kilometers of territory. By the way, Mr. Caine, I'm sorry to speak to you so directly, I've spoken to your party president, Mr. Jakovcic. And he said, absolutely understands and absolutely supports. Of course, the conversation was on the phone. He can say there was no conversation, but I say he is. Therefore, the debate can only be taken into consideration, that you claim that something else has been arranged, that I claim what is true. That nothing but this was arranged. And I personally don't think that would be good. However, if there is still a need, if you think there is a need for discussion, I suggest that it be held before, for example, the Foreign-political Committee of the Croatian Parliament. I'm absolutely ready. As you know, board sessions are public, as you decide. Any representative can come. It would also respond if I were invited to the committee chaired by Mrs Pusic, but representatives of the government who tried to explain themselves came, there was also the chief negotiator and secretary of state, etc. So here I am begging you to trace and present your arguments and what I repeat to you. Finally, both I and the members of the government will live on in Croatia, whatever you are in any future. So I'm asking you for a minimum of trust when I say this is what I signed up for. We are going towards a common goal, this is the first step of the 2nd October Intergovernmental Conference and then the continuation of this work, the end of the year beginning next year and the perspective that Croatia, as said by the European Union, can reach a moment, and this is 2011 as a possible moment for Croatia to join the European Union. I'm asking and calling for us to be together on this job and work together. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38641	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38642	Right, Jakovcic talked to you, I'll confirm, but Jacob will come to mine. But I'm afraid the Croatian public will come. But this isn't all Madam President. That's what you signed and I trust you, but I don't trust the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because when you quoted your statement, then you stopped at questions with the European Union's relief, and this statement has a sequel. On the basis of the proposal of 15 June 2009. It will say that the way to the open sea, unfortunately we will sail in the Slovenian ship. Why did we think we should go to the International Court of Justice? Because we hold that the paraphrased agreement and return to Racan-Drnovsek's agreement does not produce the right effects. You gave up all one-sided acts. As if we had any unilateral act on our own. And finally, we agreed to this second proposal by Rehn. And if it's someone for the best relationship with the neighbors, it's me, but not in a way that we buy friendship with that territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38643	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38644	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Madam Prime Minister, I use this institute a second time only in acute cases. So it's not an exact claim that the negotiations continue where they left off, it's what they stopped at. So that's why the metaphor of Madam Prime Minister's path to Ilock is correct, if they say which car it continues in. That's the logic of this story. So, something's settled. That's what we want to talk about. And two. It is not an exact claim that we claim that the prime minister lies and that she is not telling the truth and that we trust the Slovenian prime minister more on issues concerning Croatian-Slovenian relations. That's incorrect, actually ugly. That would be unnatural. And it's not true. I've known Pahora for years. But in these things, I'd like to trust us more. But you don't give us any reason to. You're avoiding argument talks. And that's why I'm worried. And just the last thing not to abuse this institute. Mr. Chehok said that Pahor didn't speak at Plenum, he spoke very much on Monday, if there was any difference to the board at all. So let's not speak lies here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38645	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38646	Your Honor, Madam Prime Minister, you've said or probably asked this House to believe, at least a little trust with this government. I believe that belief at this point is still a matter of religion, because how to explain and how to believe when in Croatia, at least in the media only the affairs of Podravka, HEP etc. I, as an agent, as a signed representative, ask that what the Parliament has adopted and concluded to be presented to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38647	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative and Vice President Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38648	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's not exactly the Prime Minister's argument that the opposition doesn't trust its prime minister, because we simply believe it. We believe here, and I want to believe that what was said to be agreed is only what was written in the letter that it was true. But the problem arises afterwards. This simply means that the prime minister argued that it is not true and that the Slovenian prime minister is not telling the truth when he claims that Croatia has committed itself to the border issue until Croatia enters the European Union, which is an even smaller problem for me. The Slovenian prime minister can or does not have to tell the truth, it is a matter of Slovenia and the public of Slovenia. However, the claim that it only writes what is in the letter means that the prime minister confirmed that her foreign minister is not telling the truth when she issues a statement that adds something more to what the letter says. Therefore, this is about whether it is agreed that the basis for the continuation of European intervention and the basis for our discussion of the arbitration agreement be the content of what was contained on 15 June...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38649	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38650	In Ollie Rehn's letter, and then the question and responsibilities of the foreign minister is certainly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38651	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38652	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's wrong, if I may say Madam Prime Minister, to speak of belief or infidelity. It's about arguments. We've grown up and everyone's making arguments and the firmness of the argument is the best basis for persuasion. So I personally came to the meeting that you invited me to as president of the National Committee because I think it's my job and my job and I absolutely want to take part in it. It said there's only what's in your letter to the Swedish presidency. I would like to invite you with great satisfaction to a session of the National Committee at which we discussed ad hoc on this subject under the auspices of "The Report on the Progress of Negotiations" not by its own free will, but because a simple contradictory statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs appeared to me 20 minutes before, when I went to the session, before the meeting of the National Committee. The National Committee is the body of this Parliament through which Parliament oversees the negotiation process and it is normal to discuss it there. But the fact that something that was different from what you said at the meeting that I was present...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38653	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38654	It appeared 20 minutes before it offered us to put it in session, and we didn't get a chance to invite you. So, absolutely we'll... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38655	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we heard the speakers, we heard the club representatives, we heard the Prime Minister and we heard the corrections of incorrect allegations. On the basis of Article 204(3), I will provide an explanation as to why twice the Vice-President of the Neven Mimica Assembly has reprimanded me not to lead in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this sitting, because that the request has been signed by the MPs to put this item on the agenda. Mrs. Andja Landup received in the manual or, as the Croatian Parliament says, the act at 10 hours and 15 minutes. Mr. Mimica spoke twice, and just when that act came to my table there was just a debate Mr. Mimica, who I first saw, then gave to multiply that proposal, shared it with all the MPs and finally got it all so that they should have received it. It was not possible to put into the agenda that I was reprehensible twice at the same time as the manual was admitted to the Croatian Parliament. So that breach of the Rules of Procedure wasn't warranted. It is now justified to discuss it because the MPs have received it, and I will therefore, on the basis of Article 204(3), which Mr Mimica called on to propose that the President of the Croatian Parliament be added to the agenda when he asks for it during the session in writing to 1/3 of the total number of MPs. So, Mr. Vinkovic, suggest and that thing isn't premeditated. I therefore put on the vote by these MPs to put this item on the agenda and ask you to include a statement on the proposal you received on the bench. Here you go. Come on in. Who's to be included will of course vote for it, and whoever isn't will vote differently. Please engage and vote. Score. The parliament did not accept the inclusion of this item in the agenda because 42 MPs voted for inclusion, 1 MP was abstentioned, and 72 MPs were against it. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 14th session with points. First. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 448. Second. Proposal for a law on safety protection of maritime ships and ports, with a final proposal for a law, also emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 449. Third. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Helen Republic in the fight against international illicit drug trafficking and psychotropics of international terrorism and international crime, with a final draft of the law, emergency procedure, P.Z. number 447. Fourth. Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. Fifth. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to a decision on the fixing of a fee for the work of the members of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest not covered by the Rules of Procedure. I suggest that this supplement be accepted, Article 205. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that points one and two of the proposed amendments to the agenda are in line with the European Union rules, so we do not vote in an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law, that is, Article 161. Rules of Procedure. These are p Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 448 and Proposal for a Law on the Safety of Maritime Ships and Ports, with a final proposal for a law, also an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 449. We move to a vote on the urgency of the procedure on the remaining law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Helen Republic in the fight against international trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances of international terrorism and international crime, with a final proposal for law, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 447? There isn't. Who's for emergency procedures please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? An emergency proposal, with 91 votes, has been accepted. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the establishment of the remaining points in the agenda of the 14th session, points 4 and 5 of the proposed amendments to the agenda are, the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency and the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the decision to determine the compensation for the work of members of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest not covered by the Rules of Procedure? Is there? There isn't. Thank you. No objections. Madam and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Now we'll announce tomorrow. We leave at 9.30 in the morning with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Insemination, Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. Number 445. And as I announced yesterday, we will now correct ourselves. After tomorrow's debate, we'll vote on the revised and discussed laws and other decisions that we can make. So, I'm scheduled for 1:00 tomorrow. Thank you and have a nice vacation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38657	So we'll wait a minute, two minutes, just to get the President of the Parliament to come to the vote. Don't leave the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38658	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 14th session with points: - Proposal for a decision to join the accession to the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a draft... There he is. [[Applause.]] You see how you were wrong. Some stories, even. The president is alive and well and here he is. So, all those evil stories and remarks aren't based.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38659	President of the Croatian Parliament, not anything else. I feel modest about my assignments, don't I? Okay. We'll do it again. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure the addition of the agenda to the 14th session points: 1. Proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. 1. Proposed law on the judicial academy. That would be the first reading, P.Z.E. No. 450. 1. Report on the correction of irregularities identified by the State Audit Office for 2007, applicant: Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please engage to determine the quorum, so we can approach the vote. The result? Ladies and gentlemen, 88 has gone into the system. But I think there's more of us, you know. And now here's the case where we're objecting not to use this system, and in fact, a lot of MPs and MPs don't get involved. What do we do now? So we still have the quorum. We can do it in this form. Are there any comments from the MPs and MPs on the inclusion of these points I have proposed for the 14th session agenda? Any objections? Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no objections to the addition of the agenda, this should be read by these three points. Let me not read them because we heard them three minutes ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38660	Ladies and gentlemen, please let's get on with the quorum score. Can we get involved? He's 93, when he's turning on, he's gone. Therefore, I suggest the same is within the framework of the Rules of Procedure to raise hands. I will therefore propose on the basis of Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure supplementing the agenda of the 14th session with points: 1. Proposal for a law on structural support and regulation of the fisheries market, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 451, 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. It's 455, 1. Final draft law on protection against domestic violence, second reading, P.Z. No. 386, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 453, 1. Proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a credit programme for export financing, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 454, 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on County, City and Municipalitys of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, 452, Proposer Boris Miletic, 7. Proposals for decisions to resolve the current and appointment of a new member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 8. Proposal for a decision on the implementation of the so far and the appointment of a new member of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Authority, also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. Please, we have established a quorum, so I would like to stress that points 1 and 2 of the proposed amendments to the agenda are in line with the European Union rules, and we are not voting in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws. This is Article 161. Rules of Procedure. These are the proposal for a law on structural support and regulation of the fisheries market, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. 451 and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 2006 Maritime Labour Convention, with a final draft law, also an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 455. We are therefore going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. First, they had one of the representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, P.Z. No. 453? There is. Here you go. Mr. Ante Kotromanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38661	Mr. President of the Parliament. I'd like to ask you if this law doesn't go according to emergency procedures. I don't think there's any need for haste. We've been operating under this law for six years. These days we've won, Mr. Djakic knows, for the fourth time, the association of minors' initiative. There are several hundred of them who seek volunteer status. Now, if this were to happen quickly now, if this procedure were to go through an emergency procedure, I don't think we could make it possible for these people who went as minors to the Croatian army, wounded, some of them killed, to get volunteer status. I don't think there's any need to rush it, that we can do it regularly. I suggest a regular trip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38662	Thank you. Does the Government want to be manifest about these remarks? No, I don't. I therefore put forward a motion that this Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families should be voted upon by an emergency procedure, with an observation made by Mr Ante Kotromanovic, who opposes the inclusion in the agenda by an urgent procedure. So who's in for an emergency procedure please raise your hand. Please count. Against? Thank you. Restraint? There isn't. Score. This emergency procedure was voted most of the votes, 63 votes to, 36 against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Guarantee Contract Act between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Credit Programme for Export Finance, P.Z. No. 454? Any objections? There isn't. I'm putting in a motion to bring in an emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimously, 99 votes for an emergency procedure under this law. Any of the MPs and MPs have objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 14th session agenda, i.e. Points 3, 6, 7 and 8 of the proposed addition to the agenda, not to read them, I read them earlier. Any objections? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. And now we're gonna take a break by 3:00. The first to receive the word is representative Mr Damir Kajin, then Goran Beus Richembergh, Shemso Tankovic and so on. Thank you and pleasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38663	Good morning, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Before we move to the agenda, let us all remember together one of our memories of the day we announced last year, unanimously in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament last year gave a special honour to ties, declaring October 18th the Day of ties in the Republic of Croatia. At that time, I was happy to accept this year’s patronage of tie day, so I am more pleased that our decision to declare the tie day was unanimous. We said then that the tie is one of the Croatian symbols, which is known in the world and appreciated, while being recognized as Croatian. By 1990, this fact of Croatian origin of tie was little known, even among Croats. Today it's known all over the world. Congratulations to the founders of the brand of croats and the institution of the Academy of Cows Marijana Busic and Zlatko Penavic on the results they have achieved over the past 20 years, as their projects are important for the promotion of Croatia worldwide. It's a speech about Croatian identity. About how we fall and how we introduce ourselves to the world. But it's also about European identity. It is interesting that each Member State of the European Union shall present itself at the beginning of its precedent with its specific tie. Croatian identity has strong European values and is an integral part of European identity, so Croatia today naturally seeks to integrate the community of European Union countries. Finally, the tie is also part of the world’s cultural heritage, and various nations have contributed to its cultural development. The day of the tie is a great opportunity for Croatia to present itself to the world and at the same time communicate with it. Congratulations to you and your families, the entire Croatian public on October 18th The Day of ties exactly as organizers say as a day of dignity and unity among people and among peoples. In the end, I want to welcome our croats soldiers who are here with us and thank them. They are dressed in uniforms that follow the tradition of Croatian soldiers' uniforms from the 17th century when their knotted edges were named after them. Soldiers say hello and thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38664	We are going to vote on the part of the debated points. Please, let's get on with it. Please quorum. 79 for now, okay. ... 96 but by the electronic system, we have a quorum anyway. First, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure, proposed the addition of the agenda to the 14th session points. One. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 457. Second. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 456. And a third. Proposal for a decision to appoint 5 members of the Croatian Radio-Television Programme Council. Proposer of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of these points in the 14th session agenda? There isn't. The first two points of the proposed amendments to the agenda shall be aligned with the regulations of the European Union, and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. Rules of Procedure. We do not vote on the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws. In the absence of any objections to the third item proposed to supplement the 14th session agenda, I hereby declare the completion of the agenda as established. We're going to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. The result? 87 is present. So we have a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda to the 14th session at points. One. Proposal for a Law on Working with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 461. Second. Proposal for a decision on a list of companies of particular national interest. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Does this have any objections from MPs and MPs to the inclusion of these points in the 14th session agenda? There isn't. The first item of the proposed amendment of the agenda shall be aligned with the European Union rules and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. In the absence of any objections to the proposed item for the completion of the 14th session agenda, I hereby declare the completion of the agenda established.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38667	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the Joint Working Group meet on 27th this month at 11 p.m. to formulate a joint amendment to the Constitution as first Mr. Neven Mimica, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Mr. Josip Leko, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh, Mr. Marin Brkaric, Mr. Stanko Grčić, Mr. Milorad Pupovac, Mrs. Ana Lovrin, Mr. Emil Tomljanović and Mr. Vladimir Seks. So, the 27th at 11 pm this working group will propose all of this which we have discussed is the final proposal that will be held before the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38668	Please engage to determine. We're just waiting for a few more moments for the president to arrive at any moment. He's on his way with the Italian Senate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38669	Ladies and gentlemen. Did we control the quorum? Please, let's get on with it. We already have. Then please score. We've got 89 reported and I see here by free judgment that there's a lot more of us. Does that mean we'll suspend the technique again or not? Then let's do it again, please let's do it again for control. Score. Here you see 102, this is more real. Thank you very much, we have a quorum and we can continue to work. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 14th session of the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the signing of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a declaration of non-judication. Please, let's get on with it. Any objections to the inclusion of this agenda item? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on accepting this point on the agenda. Score. This proposal for inclusion in the agenda was accepted by the majority of 97 votes for 1 abstention and 3 votes against. So this point that we read just before is included in the agenda, and I think we could already announce it that we're going to discuss it on Monday, so on November 2nd at 9.30 so that committees who are interested in discussing this item of the agenda can schedule sessions of 8 hours or something like that on Monday, so we can discuss this agenda point with the beginning at 9:30. Here's Monday, so November 2nd. We move on, ladies and gentlemen, to ask questions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The first to question the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38755	I thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Madam Prime Minister. I will ask Mr. Shimonovic, Minister of Justice. Mr. Minister, this summer, a doctor in Otočec said by doing his duty: “I am sick of you Serbs.” A similar thing was repeated by the mayor of Split last week. Last night, I saw a public person who said publicly, and I agree with him, but he shouldn't have said it in public. These are just events in a series that produce a public message for Serbs here have nothing to do. Croatia has laws that prohibit and sanction such hate speech. The national authorities are obliged to implement these laws. I ask, Mr. Minister, since this is an important thing for both minorities and Croatia, do you have any idea what should be done immediately in this matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38756	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38757	As Minister of Justice, I must refrain from commenting on the specific examples that you state, as this could be seen as a pressure on independent bodies as attorneys, such as judicial authorities that are competent and qualify for such advances, even if it is necessary in a legal manner to react against them. But also as Minister of Justice, I would like to answer the second part of the issue of the principle of how to react and how to legally qualify such problems, i.e. to occur. The hate speech and discrimination of any group, including the Croatian Serbs, are against both the Constitution and the law and morals and the civilizational fluids. Any attempt at justification that applies, even to the tragic past events of work and suffering, cannot be an excuse not only for hate speech, not only for discrimination, but also for any form of intolerance. It is through war crimes trials that individualizes guilt and, in fact, by providing satisfaction to victims and families, it prevents it from being transferred to any group as a whole. So, let me get this straight. Whoever is used in Croatia today by hate speech, or discrimination against anyone, and thus against Croatian Serbs, he violates the Constitution, he violates the laws, he violates morality and works against the Republic of Croatia. This is particularly true for all persons in positions in the state structure, i.e. in the structure of local self-government and media members.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38758	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaitsa, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38759	Mr. Minister, I know that in situations like this or similar we can't solve the problem by going to jail as someone here just said or without saying it. You yourself said it was a violation of the law, but something else seems important to me to say in this place. These are the things we're bound to do, I think we can answer with a model yes or no. And if, instead of that or not, we go into broader reasons, I'm afraid we're not ready or able to carry out an effective action. I'll add one thing that's also important. You know, the government has come up with several action plans related to this matter or touching that matter. What's gonna happen to them, or they're still gonna be some kind of secret document. Because of all this, I'm not happy with the situation, I wouldn't perhaps say your answer, but also with your answer. I'd like to have a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38760	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38761	I would also ask Mr. Shimonovic, the minister of justice. We have been witnesses, especially in recent days, with the problem of the bankruptcy plant Salonite. We know that the bankruptcy law has changed eight times in the last 10 years, among other things, for a reason to shorten these bankruptcy proceedings. We see how very often unpleasant situations happen. In this case, the Prime Minister had to personally guarantee that people would stop at “Salonite” to strike hunger. And I'm asking you if, and it's in your jurisdiction, do you have control over how long these procedures are going on, whether it's being taken care of that some bankruptcy managers lead and three bankruptcys. Have any of them been replaced? Whether or not they are considering improving and speeding up these bankruptcy procedures so as not to result in such distressing situations as was at the “Salonite factory. ”
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38762	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38763	When we talk about the problem of the duration of bankruptcy proceedings in Croatia. We here have a broader framework of the problem, which is generally related to the duration of court proceedings, i.e. administrative proceedings and specifics that are related to bankruptcy proceedings. I can tell you the general duration of court proceedings, of course we can never be satisfied with the speed and efficiency of the judiciary, but progress is unequivocal. We today, as far as the cases are concerned, their total number is equal to their annual average inflow, which is otherwise the average that meets the standards of the European Union. When we talk about the illustration of these proceedings, for example when it comes to judicial proceedings, we had a situation about 9 years ago that every 4th criminal proceedings ended with antiquity, and today we have come to less than 3% of the criminal proceedings ending with statutes. As for the effort to speed up the process, to get rid of the backlogs, we have reduced their number by 8% in the last year, so the process of reducing our real backlogs has continued. All of this is achieved through the change of procedural legislation, the Civil Procedural Law, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Law on Administrative Procedure has changed. All these changes sought to speed up legal proceedings and to actually take into account the preservation of the right of citizens. Just in the course and through some, we talk about weeks ago, but about months ago, before the Parliament will also find the Law on administrative disputes that should serve the same purpose. As for the specific reasons for the slow down of bankruptcy proceedings, it is partly about our earlier laws, but even more about our bankruptcy practice. Simply, the bankruptcy was too late to open. The bankruptcys opened up in a situation where there has been no assets for years and when a number of legal proceedings were to be initiated, disputed through civil proceedings, availability of bankruptcy, etc. I can say that today and according to the state of legislation, and more importantly, according to the practice of bankruptcy, they are being opened in a timely manner and are being resolved much faster. The specific problem is the issue of performance, which is also not fast enough for us. Without rapid implementation, it is really difficult to ensure good conditions for economic business, and thus also for foreign investment, etc. In this regard, I can announce that we will soon appear before the Parliament with a proposal for a new Act of Conduct, which will include the introduction of an institution so-called. private contractors. Something very similar has been given to public notebooks in their field of action, and we expect that this will be an additional contribution to speed up performances, and thus many problems related to bankruptcy procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38764	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38765	Thank you very much for... /The speaker was turned off so I accept everything you said was going towards a better one, to go faster, but we still have some bankruptcy going on, here I am told in Sibenik, 9 years old, this one has been in Split since 2004. When you generally said it was better in Croatia, I heard the same thing. There is a case where a municipality sued a dead person and took possession of the dead person's property and now that heir owners have reported, they have a big problem returning that stolen property from a state-owned institution, a municipality. A major problem is the functioning of the judiciary, the poor functioning of the judiciary, or the litigation process. Can these things also be done to protect Croatian citizens from being taken away by institutions as municipalities, and then they do not have the strength to return... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38766	Thank you. It's Mrs. Carmela Caparin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38767	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Health, Mr. Darka Milinovic. Namely, it is known and in the Republic of Croatia we have a very high rate of sickness, especially in the health system, almost 9% and of more than 40,000 employees every day there are 3,000 people on sick leave. We have between 30 and 50 thousand people on sick leave, which we know is the result of the economy because it's worth 3 million and 300,000 kuna a day and 2 billion and 600 million kuna a year. So the consequences are both in the economy and in the health system. In addition, people go to sick leave twice as much in the state sector as in the private sector. It also tells us everything. And I ask you to answer my question what are the results of all the measures you have taken to reduce your stay in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38768	Thank you. Minister Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38769	Thank you, Mr. President. Perhaps this is a good opportunity to point out that really the rate of sick leave in Croatia was one year ago, I will say unwarrantedly high, 4.2%, and that burdened the state budget, but also the private sector with 2 billion and 600 million kuna, as you said. So that's half the state budget, half the private sector. That was, or we lost 20 million working days a year. And it was kind of a trigger to me as a health minister, as a man in charge of controlling and sickening the general rate in the Republic of Croatia for increased control, and today I can say that we have successfully overcome this period of high sick leave, from 4.2 reduced to 3.38%. And in that financial sense, you said so yourself. Last year, the state budget had to allocate 2 billion and 600 million kuna, this year a billion and 900 million kuna. So, in some ways, we saved 600 million kunas, which is how we can say we stimulated the economy. There is, therefore, more resources left in the economy, but of course also in the state budget. I'm saying that these enhanced medical controls are precisely for the protection of the really sick. When I read in one daily newspaper that FBI Milinovic was going into sick leave, I was really proud of it, and I said, and now I'm ordering everyone to clean up in front of their own yard. I am, of course, in charge of the overall rate of sick leave, but the medical care rate was over 10, not 9.6, but 10.3. And we've done 1400 controls, and we've completed 400 sick leave in hospital healthcare facilities, which means we've reduced the sick rate by 26%. So let's keep going, and I'm calling on employers who have mechanisms to control all the unwarranted pains between them to do it, so I'm going to tell you that in Zrinjevac it seems to me that we have a 25% disease rate, and employers have mechanisms and, of course, the Ministry of Health and Social Care has mechanisms we've used in these years, we've reduced the rate of sickness by 21% and saved in the state budget over 600 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38770	Thank you. Mrs. Carmela Caparin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38771	Thank you very much, I'm pleased with your answer and I'm glad you have such results. However, I hope that in the future more and more of the money we have saved will be given in prevention because, according to the diagnosis that is for disease in the first place, heart disease and cardiovascular system and then locomotor system disease and third diagnosis are so-called. False diseases that are given to the spine and mental disorders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38772	Thank you. It's Mrs. Biljana Borzana's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38773	I thank Mr. President my question to the Prime Minister. In fact, Madam Prime Minister from your office and ministries every once in a while there's some law that falls very quickly on the application test. I'll remind you, Law on 0 prominence, Law on Medical Aided Insemination, No Smoking Act in Public Spaces. All these laws have been passed very resolutely, blatantly and very quickly under public pressure changed. However, what is particularly interesting is that no one responded because of it. So no one has suffered the consequences of the damage these laws have caused to Croatian citizens, the economy and the chaos they have caused. So I ask you, will you personally take responsibility for the passing of these harmful laws or will you in your ranks call upon those who pass such laws or continue to support their incompetence and incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38774	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38775	Thank you very much. Madam representative, Mr. President. I'll answer, I could actually answer your question in one sentence, you asked if I'd take responsibility, I will. I take over every day and at this point. The government is doing its job responsibly, in times of severe economic crisis, recession, the global crisis that has hit Croatia, the government and the one I am chairing, which I am leading, and the previous one has acted responsibly at times when the crisis has affected us, and so does the Government with me at the helm. We, as you know, have made here since 6 July since this government was formed, many difficult decisions, two rebalances, decisions on several laws that have received effects that could also be summed up in one sentence, which is that the system is stabilised, that we regularly pay both salaries and pensions, that we will certainly continue until the end of the year and that there is a big job ahead, I call on you to include budgeting for next year. As for the law that you call 0 prominence, it is a law that was passed in previous times, however, we are, of course, about that law and about the law that you mention the two that we are changing, about medically assisted fertilization, or about smoking, we are changing in accordance with the fundamental principle which is the basis of this government's work, which is primarily in moments and times of crisis to listen to what is happening on the labour market, we have said very clearly everything that is necessary for the preservation and even one job, the government is ready to do, we are listening to our citizens, we are serving our people and our citizens and so we will do until the end of the term of office, so until the election of 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38776	Thank you. Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38777	Madam Prime Minister, I have not asked you for the difficult decisions you have made, every government makes difficult decisions, I have asked for these laws that have fallen into application, despite being warned from the opposition in time, primarily that the laws will not cause damage. Your answer is that you are not prepared to take certain steps to remove ministers who have passed such laws, propose such laws, so you are still willing to support their further incompetence and incompetence, so we will have a copy of the government that was equally incompetence and incompetence as Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38778	If I may say so, Madam President, the government said in the first sentence that it takes responsibility unlike many who do not. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38779	Dear Madam Prime Minister. After the affair, Maestro members of the Fund's supervisory body said they knew nothing and that these masters were behind their backs. Why didn't they occasionally turn around and explain? After 10 affairs in HEP, the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Supervisory Board knew nothing or occasionally turned to see what was behind. Not even for HH affairs members of the government's oversight board led by the president knew anything. The members of the Board of Supervisors from the Government or of the events in Podravka know nothing. INA enters the debt state of 2 billion, about a billion and 400 hard, the supervisory board knows nothing. INA was sold to the MOL Government, or only you, after a statement from the other day, don't know what it says in that contract. Supervisory boards don't know what administrations do. I'm asking you if you as Prime Minister know what supervisory committees do in public enterprises and where the state has ownership stakes. If they work behind your back and do you look back from time to time. Or they have a guideline to work so they don't know anything so they can be appointed directors of a company where they were chairmans of boards such as Mr. Leo Begovic who, after he knew nothing on the board today, is the director. And in the end, please, yes, you got an insight into the INA sales contract to the Hungarian partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38780	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38781	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Representative. So here's a lot of questions in one, and I'm going to try to really cut short, so answer it specifically. You asked me if I knew what companies' supervisory boards were doing, mostly state-owned. INA isn't, I warn and remind you, but I'll answer that, too. Yes, I work hard every day to learn more and more, along with my colleagues and colleagues in the government. We have absolutely a thing under control. In fact, we're doing great results. Here's what I'm going to back up with a few facts and data, that as you know, the government's conclusion, or by the government's decision, we've given orders to the supervisory boards of commercial companies in largely state-owned property to carry out a lot of jobs that could come to light under this savings, rational business, etc., in accordance with the time in which we live. However, as a result, we talked about it at the government session is almost a billion and 400 million new savings. And so the liquidity went down to 60, 61 days, which I think is also something that we've put a lot of effort into. As you know, we've made a recommendation to the supervisory committees, that's to the administrations, to hold talks with trade unions about the reduction of the wage mass, the mass of wages I repeat by 10%, we've given the order to cut wages, etc. etc., which the supervisory boards, i.e. the administrations respect. As far as INA is concerned, we're dealing with a debt problem, absolutely. That's what the Supervisory Board discussed on Monday. There is a whole proposal for an action plan that will result in the issue and the problem of this debt being resolved by the end of 2009, and I believe that you will be satisfied. As for the specific issue of Mr. Leo Begovic, who was a member, or chairman of the HEP Supervisory Board, because he was well supervised, we appointed him yesterday, or suggested he be appointed president of the administration. And as for the issues of this contract that you mentioned to INA-MOL, I can also inform you that we are prepared and publicly published. So I believe you're satisfied with that fact, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38782	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38783	In view of the content of the response, I am not satisfied and will ask for a written reply in which I ask the Prime Minister to provide me with a list of all members of the Supervisory Boards who have been so well supervised as Mr. Leo Begovic, who will also be promoted to directors in the future. And then please contract to sell INA, if you can announce Madam President as soon as possible. At least on the government portal, if possible, or in answer to my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38784	Thank you. It is Mr Dragan Kovacevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38785	I would like to ask the Ministry of Tourism, or Mr. Branko Grgic, the state secretary present here. In fact, there are indications of the beginning of the economic crisis. Croatia ranks as a group of four countries of the European Union, France, Germany, Slovakia and Greece, which took place in the second quarter of this year, and that is, if we talk about Croatia means from a minus 6.7 to a minus 6.3, which is not a major shift, but certainly a trend that encourages and is expected to have an impact on the tourism sector as well. But it is certain that this start of exit from the crisis will not mean the immediate recovery of the tourism market, especially the international one. Therefore, my question is: what is it doing, or what will the Ministry of Tourism take to maintain and improve Croatia's position on the international market?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38786	Thank you. State Secretary Mr Branko Grgic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38787	Honored Mr. President, MPs. I would like to say, immediately, that the coming 2010 will be even more difficult than this existing one for tourism. Mostly because we are one of the few countries in our environment and from competition, along with Turkey and Tunisia, which we managed to move from the resulting minuses to the resulting plus at the end of August. And let's be aware that the competition that won't allow for two seasons in a row, primarily Italy, Spain, France, to be in a downer, will do its best with the extra measures to move the season to plus. What we do in the ministry, namely, the creation of measures for 2010, so we are already focused for 2010, although 2009 is ongoing and the sub-season is under way, and I can inform you that booking is very good and we expect good results, and the sub-season is 20% of the total season. We will continue to work on visa liberalisation, I mean the Russian Federation and Ukraine. Also in contacts with the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are working on the possibility of a visa system for both India and China. Together with the Croatian tourist community, we are working to open a representative of the Croatian tourist community in Shanghai. We are also working with the Ministry of Education to coordinate school holidays that have a significant impact on the tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38788	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38789	Thank you very much. I am satisfied with the answer, and I believe that we can all actually draw optimism for the next tourist season, precisely from the results of this tourist season where those black forecasts were that tourist traffic will fall below 25%, and in fact the level of tourism traffic is at the level of the record last year. We therefore welcome all these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38790	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38791	The issue is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Food imports into the European Union do not exceed 8%, while in the Republic of Croatia it is 40%. According to the State Statistics Service in the first seven months, we imported food and live animals for a billion US dollars. The most drastic example is the ratio of imports and exports of fruit and vegetables. Imports $223 million, and exports only $21 million, or 11 times smaller. We import apples at 50 percent, pears 90%, almonds 100%. We import asparagus from Peru, tomatoes from Turkey, pumpkin oil from the Alps, Austria, garlic from the Niles of Egypt valley, and dried figs from Germany. The Republic of Croatia needs about 5 million pigs a year, and it produces or cultivates only a million, with a tendency to reduce the number of passengers and accelerates domestic production. Does the Government, for reasons of steak, quotes, of about 3 billion kuna a year, such excise duties, customs duties and VAT on imported goods therefore kill an entire cow, i.e. domestic livestock production. So the question is, why is the Government of the Republic of Croatia threatening or somewhat destroying domestic livestock production by excessive imports and issuing import licences for live cattle and meat? What are these persons, which companies and whose companies, allegedly friendly, have received import licences?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38792	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38793	Well, Mr. Representative, Mr. President, I must, of course, answer in the manner of your question. You asked why the government was jeopardizing livestock production. I have to answer that the government is fortunate not only to endanger livestock production but also to try to improve it every day. By listing all these products, this delicious fruit, vegetables and meat, I believe that you've all opened our appetites a little bit at this time because we've been working since the early morning, but the joke aside, I agree with you that there is, that this must be one of the central issues that we have to talk about over and over again. It means that the end of our potentials, the end of people, peasants, farmers who know, who want to produce, we have to improve every day production and produce all of this that you're talking about and that it's not logical to say, for example, that importing doesn't matter where, garlic, when it seems understandable to me that we can produce it ourselves. But I'll tell you a few details, I believe you'll be pleased. That here we have improved significantly year by year and incentives for producers, i.e. the meat and livestock market, increased incentives for certain livestock production. I'll tell you here's the data only in the first seven months of this year of pig meat was imported less by $58 million, and for $45 million less of beef in, of course, compared to the same period last year. That's also what I think he's saying. It is true that there are imports, of course, imports of meat primarily for the purposes of the industry that converts it into products for use, produce more added value. But that's where we record a ten million dollar-a-year surplus, too, when we talk about meat processing. This year, for the first seven months, that surplus is $16 million. This speaks of the competitiveness of the meat processing industry. As for the issues of who the importers are, you yourself know that everyone who registers for this job has the right to do it and to do it, but I agree with you we need to act more and more day by day to produce more and more food ourselves, to link it to tourism production, means tourism as one of the main branches of the economy in Croatia. Let's look at this good season and really rely on our strengths, so we can live on our food, eat, but we can support tourism, but we can also export it. So, rest assured, the government will pay great attention to agriculture in the broadest sense, but also to livestock, meat, meat production.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38794	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38795	I'm not happy with the answer at all. He's standard, I'd almost say, and he'd always be like this. In fact, there are exact figures of the State Statistics Institute in which clearly at the end of the year there are balances on imports of about $2 billion of American food. I also ask the written answer, so let those who import be seen exactly who it is and say whose friends they are or who they are. However, we do not even have a long-term strategy for the development of agriculture. We do not know any of us here know about the Croatian Government's platform in negotiations with the European Union on the agricultural chapter. It's like a snake's foot. 205 million kuna you promised agriculture, personally you, Madam Prime Minister, in connection with those late last year's incentives. This is not yet fulfilled, and the autumn seed is at the door and will be very doubtful how the peasants, mainly in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem, will do the sowing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38796	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38797	Mr. President. I'm referring my question to my science minister, my colleague Fuchs. Today, one of the fundamental principles of every education policy in Europe is the equality of opportunities for students and students in the world. It is generally known, however, that unfortunately students in certain Croatian cities, at some universities, have unequal chances, or have an unequal standard. For example, while students in Split have a modern student restaurant with a pastry shop, pizzeria a la cart, restaurant, other facilities, in some cities such as Varazdin there is no restaurant of student nutrition. We're not waiting for the ministry, this ministry, even before, the city gave up land, the student center made projects, we got a construction permit three years ago. We've extended that building permit once already. I ask you nicely, it would really be today in 2009 or the '10s a great shame for the Croatian state, for all of us as a society, if our students here in a few months had no place to feed in Varazdin. I must remind myself, I may also tell the Croatian public, because it is less known, Varazdin does not have a university, but there are far more students than some of the cities that have a university. Therefore, I think that Varazdin too deserves to finally build this student restaurant because we have two restaurants where students are fed today, one of which is closing soon, given that according to ASAP and other standard norms must go into reconstruction. It's really gonna happen to us that our students are gonna be on the street and they're not gonna have anywhere to feed. Varazdin today has over five and a half thousand students. I ask you nicely, we have a building permit, we have extended it, the city has secured the land, we have opportunities and I ask that the state is here for the next year to put it in the budget to create a student restaurant, in another way to ensure food and standard for students because, once again, today, we must all really strive for equal opportunities and equal standards for all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38798	Minister of Education, Science and Sports Mr. Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38799	Dear Representative Chehok, first of all I congratulate you on the number of students in Varazdin, you really do much for education not only of your fellow citizens but also of students coming from other parts of the Republic of Croatia. You're right when you say there's a problem with your student diet in Varazdin, because there's still no student restaurant, and the project you mention that I remember is about 55 million kuna. With the talks being held for several years in which the investment could be launched. However, I must also point out that the largest educational institutions in Varazdin are two universities that belong and are part of the Zagreb University. In the last 6 years, Zagreb University has or has had a billion kuna loans for construction and capital investments for the needs of the university itself. A student centre, which also cares about student nutrition, is also part of the Zagreb University. The allocation of these credit funds which return the Republic of Croatia, or return from the budget, shall be allocated and distributed to the decisions of the recession, i.e. they shall make a decision to the Senate common to all its constituents. So I can remind you equally about the Varazdin from that loan used 44 million kuna. 20 million for a dorm, 14 if I'm not wrong about FOI and 10 million for Geodetic College. Which is why the University Senate has not launched a clear enough debate on the financing and construction of a student restaurant from these funds, we will have to look for the answer at the university itself. But I am absolutely in favour of talking to the University of Zagreb again, because one attempt to resolve this issue did not get a positive opinion at the university itself. In all this together, let me mention that the state budget spends around 280 million kuna on a student diet, with students still paying only 4.5 kuna in their pocket, and everything else is borne by the state budget, and the price of food is increasing every year. Therefore, the resources allocated are enormous and could certainly build additional capacities if the participation of students is higher. But because of social sensitivity and just understanding today's economic situation, we decided not to change the part of student participation. And their participation will remain the same this year. And this price regardless of whether it is fed in restaurants owned by universities, i.e. student centres or private restaurants, is equal for all students in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38800	Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38801	Mr. Richter is familiar with the question of student nutrition, of course. I'm aware that the funds are allotted and distributed by universities. However, I think that we are all obliged here in Parliament and you as Minister and Government to ensure everyone a level playing field and a level playing field. That's why I advocate talking to the university with my authority and with me. I'm also aware that we have insufficient capacity in other cities, Mr. Minister. But we have to understand that in Varazdin we won't have a restaurant at all. So these kids really won't have a physical place to feed. So here we are no longer talking about having too little capacity or maybe having an unequal standard, but it will happen to us that in 9 months, we won't have where our children have both students and students to eat. I'm asking you nicely to let us all sit together, because I think it would be a real shame for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38802	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's a question for the Prime Minister. Dear Madam Prime Minister, during yesterday's cabinet session, you replaced the entire HEP administration for a criminal report filed by police and for the employment of a soldier of Mr Rada Buljujasic's party. Both you and me and everyone who sits here and everyone who looks at us knows what it didn't look like back then. So I'm sure this isn't how it happened. He came to work on the port and introduced himself. Hello, I'm Rade and I'd like to work. And then the porter looked at him and immediately referred him to the Director General. And then he told him, I'm so glad, we just have one free place to hire you and you don't really have to work very hard on it. You'll have plenty of free time, you'll be able to go to the HDZ centre to carry the papers, we'll give you an apartment and you'll still be able to buy it cheaply, because you know that's how it works in Croatia. So that doesn't make sense to us. Someone must have whispered to the director, came to you and hired him and given him everything he asked for, because he helped Eve become HDZ president as he said. So my question simply reads. Why is HEP administration being replaced? Due to expensive imports of electricity, expensive rents of apartment, business with Croatian roads, because of everything expensive or just because of press pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38804	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38805	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, the HEP administration has been replaced because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided on the basis of all the information we have had. It's our decision. And of course we will continue to try to keep HEP doing well, to keep HEP doing what the Government of the Republic of Croatia expects. And so in that context are our decisions yesterday. As far as your question is concerned, about how Mr. Buljubasic got a job, I don't know how to answer that question. I don't know where you even got the construction that he came from, so he got the job he wanted. I don't know, maybe on the trail of one fact, I hear there's a member of the company in Velika Gorica who's employed, or invented a job and a company so he can get a job. But I don't think it's a good way to talk, because then we'll start pulling out you know different examples. Here is yesterday from Dubrovnik we heard examples of all Croatia, how members of the SDP were employed, etc. I would not engage in this as Prime Minister, because I ask you to take the government's decisions for information with the explanations that are given. Of course, along with the fact that it was filed and that some criminal charges were filed. Therefore, I ask you to respect that fact. The government is doing consciously, honestly, honestly, we are really trying to do everything that is in the interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38806	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38807	Madam Prime Minister, I don't think you've answered my question. As for all these cases you've mentioned, I urge you to change all those cases where you have authority, because otherwise they'll turn out to be said now because of your pressures, so they don't change them, that they've accused their former bosses and falsely. As for the replacement of the HEP administration, the official response, or the statement by Minister Cobankovic yesterday, was that it was because of a criminal application that it was a principle. The only criminal record is this for Mr. Buljujasic. In this country, in any case, there are bigger problems than hiring one person in HEP. No one believes that you've replaced the administration for damages of 600 thousand kuna, and that they've then received an severance of 4 million kunas or seven times more. To make the matter more absurd, you put in place a person who, as chairman of the Supervisory Board, approved so much severance. Therefore, I urge you to ask the new president of the administration to terminate the contract at their expense and not pay them that severance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38808	Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My question was addressed to the defence minister, Mr Tomislav Ivic. In the period from 2004 to 2009, more than 5,000 Croatian wartime wartime people, families of the dead, imprisoned or missing defenders, were taken care of. That's what the cca billion and 500 million were spent in. So far, we've taken care of more than 13,000 war cripples. The 100% disabled, 492, were also taken care of by buying or building a house or apartment. Mr. Minister, for every commendation of the work of the former minister, now the Prime Minister and you as Minister for buying cars in this crisis year to 100% disabled persons, because it is our obligation to our knights who have indeed fought for the borders of the Republic of Croatia. My question is, will this housing care program of our disabled people be continued in 2010?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38810	Defence Minister, family and intergenerational solidarity Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38811	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, of course housing will continue. This is also the right stemming from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, for families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, for Croatian wartime military disabled. Of course, the adoption of the state budget will be familiar with the amounts that will be adapted to the dynamics of the construction of new housing units for the needs of the Croatian defenders' families. I am pleased to say that only in the last two months has 126 apartments been assigned to Croatian defenders in Varazdin, Slavonski Brod, Metkovic, and is currently in the phase of the completion of 35 apartments in Crikvenica and Ogulin, and that 658 apartments are being prepared for construction at 12 locations throughout Croatia. As you yourself have said, over the past five and a half years 5 thousand 528 families of Croatian defenders have been taken care of, housing or assignment of a residential loan, which has been spent from the state budget through the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity and the Ministry of Construction a billion and 600 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38812	Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38813	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, and thank you on behalf of all the disabled, all those who have received both cars and apartments and those who will receive it next year and in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38814	Mr. Representative Ivan Bogovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Prime Minister of Croatia with members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My question would be addressed to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and it would be relevant to, we know that the Regulation on technical conditions of road transport and the Regulation amending the Regulation on technical conditions of road vehicles is necessary to perform certain on-board operations in order to comply with the requirements of the Council of Europe Directive. Given the current situation and the current crisis, is the ministry planning to take some measures to help domestic car carriers maintain their existing competitiveness and to make the purchase of new train units even more competitive?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38816	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, MPs and MPs. I didn't hear the first part of the question, but I heard the last one, so I think it's the last line and most important in your question, which is how and what we do to help Croatian road haulers, or raise their competitiveness. The fact is that Croatian road transporters are as much as a branch, I will not say the most, but perhaps the most affected by this one global recession, one fall in economic activity at all, not only in Croatia but throughout Europe, so in all countries where they work and in which countries go to work. So we started with them, so I would say even before the recession, engagement on a whole series of projects and programmes aimed at raising the competitiveness of Croatian road transporters. And here's the data from the MUP, and we've got about 175 thousand of these motor vehicles and about 10,000 more buses, so something less than 200 thousand of those vehicles. Clearly, they're bound by people, families, and it doesn't matter what their destiny is. So, we've realized a lot. I'm going to list maybe some of the things that are most important, we're not all the way to the end, some of us are going to realize, or we're still talking about some things. First, in realisation, the government's programme to reduce the negative impact of transport on the environment through the reduction of the emissions of harmful gases, for which the government has provided through the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund 50 million kuna, which will be awarded after the public tender to all those carriers that change Euro 3, 2 and old trucks for Euro 5 trucks, amounting to 70 thousand kuna per vehicle for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and 50 thousand kuna for large entrepreneurs. In this way, 249 carriers will achieve 639 vehicles, and I feel that support amounting to 44 million kuna and 530 thousand kuna, with a clear agreement from AZTN in order to ensure that everything is consistent with European practice. It's in realisation, signed contracts and these days will probably start... Secondly, as you know, because it was at the government's session, it's been granted a discount all year for highways, and that's 20% if a prepaid card is paid, if paid by the ENC. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a payment that, now everybody's got both third and fourth categories all year round. It was recently September 15th to 1.6. In addition, we add another 3% for each Euro 4 or Euro5, which is then one discount that really aims and attracts passengers on the highway, but also helps them to pay less toll in that part than the others pay. Furthermore, reduced compensation for the administration of annexes according to the centre resolution, increased number of cells for the technical examination. I don't know, a reduced fee for individual and CEM permits. We have increased and are capacitating the inspection on which they insist on being effective and being sufficient for the sake of unfair competition and therefore not just those competitions that threaten them and work in violation. So a lot's been solved. Two questions haven't been resolved yet, but they'll be dealt with for sure. This is the first proposal to abolish parking charges paid for customs duties on goods on terminals in the interior and at border crossings. We have been talking to all those who are important and who can handle it for a long time. It's not simple, there are resistances, but we'll find some solution, because it doesn't make sense that the carrier pays for that terminal just because some goods are being transported. But I don't want to be here in detail right now. And two. I, as a minister in my power, shall adopt the rules to be paid by which the vehicle is registered. There is their requirement to correct something there too, to make it easier for them, or to reduce that level of payment when registering these fees through that Regulation. Very soon that rule will be passed, so here I think those two remaining issues that are left to solve are going to work out and solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38818	Okay. Mr. Representative Ivan Bogovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38819	I thank the minister. I am pleased with the answer and I thank you on behalf of the users of these measures that the Government has taken and I believe that these preparations will certainly help our carriers to become even more competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38820	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38821	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Kosor, can you tell us how much the total amount of damage the state budget has caused to the affairs in state-owned companies that are overseeing your ministers, and has been discovered since your captain sailed with a little vitre for unknown reasons in an unknown direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38822	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, you're asking questions about the affairs we're reading about in the paper. I can answer what I have already said to you as a representative in the Croatian public. Based on what I read in the paper or on what I saw on TV or on the radio, of course I can't make a single decision. It is so now and it will be so in the future. It is the only way for the government to function truly as a government that primarily respects the enquiries, but also a government that is responsible and consciously doing its job. So where there is an irregularity, and I assure you that in this sense the Government continues to create a legislative but any other framework, of course, that we will act in accordance with the powers that the Government has. Therefore, we made as you saw yesterday some decisions. And we will continue to try first and foremost state-owned companies, i.e. largely state-owned companies, to be an example of business for everyone in the Republic of Croatia. I'll repeat the information I said earlier. So in a relatively short time, we managed to achieve additional savings. So before that, an action plan during this year for savings, as well as additional savings from a billion and almost 400 million kuna. But we still work primarily on liquidity, saving everything that is possible and what has to be achieved when it comes to commercial societies that are mostly owned by the state. So I guarantee you that we will very much be in control of that what is and what may be under the control of the government is absolutely within the framework of laws and regulations. Therefore, I will work on the same way that here is absolutely not what we saw yesterday on the subject of the eternal letter of MPs or Councilman Mr. Matusic, for example, at the Regional Development Agency of DUNEA where the director and the Agency sign very clearly that there are 8 persons in the agency to this day on 21 April 2006 and she lists the names of the people who are employed, where it is clearly stated with the recommendation of the SDP city organisation, at the request of the council, on the condition that the SDP, with the pressure of the SDP of Vela Luka, etc. And in the end, it states that for some it was brought, I quote: “In advance of the act and that I only received instructions that I should receive these workers in a working relationship.” So, together with you, Mr. Representative Jovanovic with all SDP representatives and all other members of this Croatian Parliament, of course, I am thinking first of all of the parliamentary majority, of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We will not stop in the fight against corruption, and nothing on that path will stop us or stop us. In this I have the support of my Vice-Presidents of Ministers and Ministers and I believe that at the end of our mandate means 2011 together with me, we have done a lot of things and never in the fight against corruption, we must never get tired, there must be no will, no knowledge, no money if necessary. So here's my word that this is how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38824	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38825	Madam Prime Minister, unfortunately, you haven't answered my question again. You continue to practice your predecessors. So, I asked you to assess how much the total damage to the state budget was caused by affairs in state-run companies controlled by your ministers. It is very sad if you, as Prime Minister, are informed by reading the media and television, because I think there are services that should inform you first so that you know much better than Croatian citizens what happens especially in companies that should be supervised by your ministers. I therefore ask that you submit to me in writing an assessment of the total damages to the state budget resulting from corruption, nepotism, negligence, incompetence and ignorance of your ministers who have monitored the Croatian railways, Croatian roads, Croatian highways, Croatian electricity industry to see how much these damages are overall greater than the money your income tax on pay and pensions will take to the citizens of Croatia. And I'm already telling you that this amount is so much that you could provide free textbooks and school transportation for the next 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38826	Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38827	Madam Prime Minister, your Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs at the very beginning of the school year when desperate parents protested the unbearablely high cost of transporting their children to school said he was not interested in the problem at all because it was private companies. He does not care what the prices of transportation from 900 to 1200 kuna per student seriously question the continuation of child education, especially in Slavonia and Baranja. He doesn't care when over 300 desperate parents protest in Brod-Posavina County looking for solutions and help. He doesn't care that children won't be able to go to school because their parents don't have the money to transport. Mrs. Kosor, are you interested or do you agree with Minister Fuchs that transporting children to school is not a problem that the ministry and the state should take care of or explain to your minister that the duty of the state is to take care of our children's Croatian future and education and to do something about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38828	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38829	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, I absolutely agree with you that the problem of bringing children to school, especially the problem of transporting children to areas of Croatia that have been devastationed by war, so where it has stopped and produced, where so many jobs have been lost, where literally the infrastructure has been completely destroyed is a big problem. He is also a problem with the government, he is also a problem with the Parliament because, of course, the Parliament is laying down regulations, but also local administrations, or self-government. And that's where we share our common position. This is why we have made efforts at the moment when because of the problem of buying textbooks, so we have achieved a project of free textbooks that for this year have been estimated at around 730 million kunas which we did not in the budget, given that, as you know, we have had difficulties, and that is why we have brought 3 rebalancings, and this 2, here in the mandate of my Government, had to go drastically against some of the projects that we have identified because I repeat, there was no money for it. We also agreed on the implementation of the project by Minister Fuchs and Minister Milinović and Minister Ivić to ensure both the transport and purchase of textbooks for those students, around 42 500, so those who are the most endangered of socially endangered families and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders to ensure both textbooks and transportation. I know it's not enough, I know that you should do everything to solve the problem of free transportation really where parents absolutely can't do it alone, and I'm sure the minister was neither cynical, nor that in any way he denied the role of the government, but we found ourselves this year in such a situation, invited, and I personally, recommended and prayed, if you want cities and counties and municipalities to in this year 2009, or 2010 school and academic aid as much as we can, and I repeat, we have provided for children from the most vulnerable families what we could in this year. What I can tell you is that we'll see and try to fix it wherever we can for the next year. It is certain that the transport of children, especially children who go to high school, is also familiar in Slavonia but also in other parts of Croatia is an insurmountable obstacle if parents cannot pay for transportation. But in this regard, I think that since I have a lot of appeals to community in the difficult times that we live in, so I also call on this opportunity to use and call on car carriers, or those who can help to see if they can give in, can I make a contribution. This year should be mastered, and I believe that in the next year we will begin to find space to solve these issues. So, I'm not denying that that's the problem, and I'm going to personally try to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38830	Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38831	At least we found that the problem exists, which is one important thing already. But unfortunately, in the budget rebalancing, children and education were the first to be lost, as regards free textbooks and free transport, and I think it's too long to wait until next year to find certain solutions, especially in the most vulnerable areas. Waiting until next year is waiting and getting fewer children to go to school. Therefore, it is up to you and the Ministry to find solutions as soon as possible, on the one hand. On the other hand, the transfer of responsibility to regional and local self-government at the moment, and that they do not have the funds in their budget is also slightly unserious. Therefore, I expect you and your ministry and minister to find as soon as possible solutions in areas where children are the most endangered, or their parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38832	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38833	Thank you, Madam President. Against the new taxes, and for the better life of the citizens, they were the passwords that you won power over. That's what you promised, that's what you deceived the people. You emptied the state register, you increased the VAT and introduced a crisis tax that the entire nation rightly calls a harachus. So you've turned into ordinary harrakes. The consequences of your harassing Croatia citizens feel very strongly about their skin. Every day, people get harder and harder to live. They lose their jobs, lose their wages or cut their wages drastically, don't know what to buy children's books from, how to pay for increased directors, pay off credit rates, buy food. My question is, when will you finally have mercy on those you've so deceived? When are you going to get off the back of a citizen who can't carry that burden anymore?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38834	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38835	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative. Let me say my impression, I don't think it's good, and it's just not good to say that we're on the back of citizens, because this is the government that got the support in the Croatian Parliament, this is saying that it has full legitimacy, and this is the government that's been working in extremely difficult conditions for two and a half months, doing everything we know and we can live better, that is, to overcome the crisis. We brought it in, and that's true, the Special Tax Act. Today it is included in the agenda and another law from that package, which is true, so we have introduced a tax of 2, or 4% on salaries and pensions, but you forgot to say that we have absolutely protected it, and that is the real truth, and we have tried in all ways to protect all pensioners, there are almost 900 thousand who have a pension of up to 3 thousand kuna and all those who receive the salary, there are almost 600 thousand, who have salaries of up to 3,000 kuna. No one in the government was happy and no one in the government expected a round of applause from either yours or anyone else to introduce these measures. But Madam MPs that we didn't do it, and since we're responsible for the government, I was absolutely ready to bear that burden on my back, too. Responsible Government that has done everything to pay and pension, means the salaries of users of the state budget and pensions, and salaries and teachers, and teachers, and teachers, and doctors, and nurses, and employees in the Croatian Assembly etc., etc., can pay in time. And, of course, your salaries as Parliamentarians and MPs. In the context of that, we cut both of you and our salaries, you forgot to say, so 15% including this tax, we actually cut our wages by about 20%. If necessary, we will continue to do so. We, as you know, banned both the purchase and the car, and the new employment, and the use of cards except for ministers and state secretaries only for travel and made other many important cuts. We'll keep making them, I promise you. Therefore, speaking in such a way as to sit on the back of the peoples of citizens and citizens, I do not think it is appropriate at least. What we've managed to do is get the financial system back together, and I'm very proud of that. I repeat payouts and pensions. As you can see, according to the National Statistics Institute, when it comes to the decline of GDP, the second quarter is something better, so economists, not me, economists say that this is proof that we have touched the bottom of the crisis and that we are slowly climbing towards the surface. It will be difficult, there will be many more difficult decisions, but that is why the government is here to make difficult decisions in difficult times and to do everything possible to make Croatia a stable state and, of course, a stable democratic, legal state and to be a member of the European Union soon. We'll keep doing it, here's my promise, even if we don't have yours, and the government doesn't have your support. And for the end, you said we won the parolee's power. That's not true. I will now speak on behalf of the party that I am headed by, the Croatian Democratic Union. The Croatian Democratic Union never went to the polls with passwords, but with its programme's announcement. When we went to the elections in 2007, look what GDP was like, what were the odds, we talked about 6%, etc., and what are the odds today. I think that, let me put it this pure party way, it's not good for us to receive this kind of criticism from the SDP because, of course, we're going to be reminded of the time that you've been cutting salaries to civil servants and tenants and up to 40%, and doctors, and teachers, etc., police officers. And when we are, I won't talk about defenders, maternity benefits, because it's my eternal theme, and that's true, and when, of course, we're on the basis of those obligations paid to collective agreements that the government had, it means paying off Christmas cards, regresses, etc., we total when all these funds are summed up and what was paid to defenders on the basis of 32 lawsuits to courts that all got paid almost 6 billion kuna of debt. If we had those six billion kunas based on the start of work, it would certainly be a different situation. Therefore, I appeal not to enter the polemics that are at the lowest level without arguments, because the job of getting out of the crisis is our joint job and I invite you Mrs. MPs to take part in it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38836	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38837	Madam President, you're saying that as an opposition representative, that's what the citizens tell you, it just can't be harder. But as a bright optimist, you throw can, yes. And when, in fact, what is the situation in Croatia? What kind of laws do you make? You say to protect the poorest. First you brought them into this situation, and the measures you take, the piety of your protection, indeed, is man's will to be protected from you. At the end of the day, you've quoted many dates nicely. I'll remind you in 27.7.2009, you said, "We all have one Croatia." But that's not true, Mrs. Kosor. You know that well. That some in their Croatia, who love Liechtenstein so much, have Virgin Islands where they earn, where the accommodation of money is sucked out of both state companies and other companies, so Mrs Kosor is provided with a tax haven, and for some, i.e. for other citizens, tax hell.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38838	Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38839	Dear Madam President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Vice President. Competitiveness is a topic that is increasingly relevant today, challenges and attracts the increasing attention of Croatian media. The competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia given its attractiveness to direct foreign investments. The competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia in the light of the legislation for direct foreign investments. The competitiveness of the Croatian business environment. Competitiveness of business processes. These are all important, key topics for the future of the Croatian economy and economic growth in the Republic of Croatia. One very short, simply, seems to me an extremely important question for the Minister of Science. The competitiveness of Croatian knowledge-based products. It's a subject that deserves attention. More investment, more investment, because the competitiveness of Croatian exports is Croatia's future and the only way of real, faster economic growth. So very simple. What is the role and place of Croatian science in strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy? One question. On the other hand, what is the responsibility of the Croatian economy, Croatian companies, to invest much more in research and development in new technologies and strengthen their competitiveness? I will tell you, recently, a very high-quality international event in Split, where I welcomed the meeting on behalf of the President of the Croatian Parliament, which discussed the knowledge applied, unfortunately no one from the Croatian economy, from Croatian shipyards and many other important economic sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38840	State Secretary, Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38841	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Let me answer your question with a brief review of the current situation with us and of certain plans that we have in the ministry, and these are the plans of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, the rapid progress of science and technology in the conditions of globalisation that you are talking about, make the creation of knowledge and its productive application a fundamental challenge to the competitiveness of the economy and society. The development of the scientific and technological system enables the construction of countries, both Croatia and the countries facing knowledge and innovation with the ultimate aim of increasing competitiveness and productivity and achieving stable economic growth. Scientific and research work and the effective transfer of its innovation results, therefore for good in services in processes, is one of the fundamental levers in creating a competitive economy. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has made significant steps in creating Croatia's research space, i.e. in coordinating networks of scientific research and academic institutions, and the interest of private capital in investing in the development of new technologies or processes or in the development of high technologies, despite the encouraging measures I will mention here Bicro and tax relief is still unfortunately not sufficiently developed enough that you have confirmed in your question. Significant movements in this direction can also be achieved by opening up to foreign capital which already knows Croatian scientific potential and many of our scientists are engaged in many other countries abroad. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia aims to strengthen both material and social conditions and create a business environment for investment and investment not only domestic but also foreign. Croatia must therefore also increase sustainable growth through the transformation of existing knowledge into an increase in productivity and innovation. Croatia will not go too far if I say it has a long tradition of scientific activities but what you said about this commercialisation of knowledge is still in the early stages, such as the fact that only 6% of Croatian companies reported patents in the period from 2005 to 2007. With a low level of patenting activities, total research and development expenditure is also relatively modest and amounts to only 1% of GDP, and the World Bank has estimated that by increasing the R & D ratio to GDP to 3% and the Lisbon Strategy, Croatia could increase its income by 6% by 2025 and by 2040, even 8.2%. Therefore, one of the primary tasks of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to re-design the system of science and to increase investment and to achieve this development of our innovation national system, I will give some more examples. Let's say through Bicro, through Hit, through the National Foundation through the Unity and Knowledge Aid Fund, etc., and finally allow me to announce something respected Mr. Representative. In order to strengthen all of this, I am also announcing here an amendment to the law on scientific and research activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38842	Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38843	Thank you very much for the helpful answer, because I will repeat that this is one of the key perhaps most important political topics for Croatia's future. The Lisbon strategy requires 3% of investment in research and development. Half of this burden should be given to the economy we cannot do anything at the level, only if the Croatian government does not accept it as its challenge and its responsibilities, I am sure and I hope that this will be a really important contribution and added value to the Croatian government in the future, economic growth and strengthening the competitiveness of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38844	Mr. Agent Iron Happy Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38845	Madam Prime Minister, the sad episode of abolishing free textbooks has put a whole series of questions on the agenda and I can tell you the problems. I'll only list some of them. First of all, it showed that buying textbooks by lawns, markets, improvised stands, markedly poor financial status of the Croatian population, which should not be ignored by any government, nor by any local self-government. The episode confirmed the government's inability to solve people's problems, especially those it caused itself. For example, to hire schools to exchange old and get new textbooks, and to ensure the printing and distribution of textbooks by the start of the school year, not with a delay of 30 days. The sad episode with the textbooks has once again revealed the way this government works. What business about half a billion kunas wanted to arrange for them instead of being settled by a public tender, thus saving back a portion of the public money. NO, by liquidating free textbooks, you have liquidated the main stimulant towards mandatory secondary education but thus liquidated part of your pre-election programme and the government's work programme, and you have also thrown Croatia at the start of the European system of education because it becomes one of the few countries that does not have a compulsory secondary school. A good part of the parents took credits or got rid of planned summers to provide school books for their children, and a part of the children had to give up further schooling. Mostly on this example you have seen, ever since you took over the government of people in Croatia, it has become increasingly difficult and worse. So my question is, do you intend and when to introduce the discontinuity of this government's work and start making decisions that will make us all better and not worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38846	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38847	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative, since you ask me personally as well as all the other MPs and representatives of the SDP, I will be very happy to answer that every day these two and a half months I'm doing everything I can to make us feel better. I am unhappy that we are in times of crisis, a recession that is not only a Croatian problem whether I am satisfied, for example, that when it comes to the decline of GDP, Croatia is only in three other countries, Europe which show a slight trend of possible recovery, I am talking about Croatia now. I'm pleased that we introduced order the moment I took over the government, you're talking about the moment, so July 6th, as the moment it all went downhill. As for the purchase of textbooks, so I want to remind you, and I've said it many times in public, that we have both observed in the rebalancing and through the rebalancing of the state budget that went through this Parliament, that this money, 350 million, and that was very clear written, which should have been secured for textbooks, there was no. I couldn't invent, not a finance minister, not any member or member of the government, money that wasn't there. Thus, we had to do what we did in this situation. I also want to convince you, of course you can and you don't have to believe me, but in these efforts to stabilise the budget, we have citizens' support. And that's what I witness every day, and I've never claimed, and now, of course, I'm not going to do it, that the situation is ideal, but it's going to be very difficult and I repeat it will be extremely difficult by the end of this year and it will be extremely difficult next year because they come to collect commitments from previous years and years, which are also on their backs, of course through decision-making, will take this government to which I'm headed. But we are absolutely not afraid of these challenges and I assure you that, I believe next year if not today, you can say that you have been wrong in these assessments that you have given today. As for our finding that we've liquidated mandatory high school education, we haven't, we'll show it very quickly. So we will try to make sure that this direction in which governments went before this continues to realize that only education and only education and only education and only science and only knowledge is the foundation of what we want for Croatia in the present and in the future. And let me remind you that here's the budget for the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, so in all the components since the start of the government's takeover, that is, jobs in the government in 2004, so to this day, it grew by 56% or, more precisely, $4.4 billion is an increased budget for science and education. And I believe, Mr. Representative Flego, that you know that and that you will respect that fact as well. We live in a time of crisis, in a difficult time and do what is possible. And I agree that it was neither nice, nor good, nor pleasant, sometimes here are the pictures that we saw on TV about that the textbooks were exchanged in one place or another, in the fish shop or, but it was an organization of people who thought that this could get to the textbook, and I repeat, the government did everything to make sure that children who can't, from families who can't do it, from families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders get books paid by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We'll try to do it in the next year, and we'll see it real soon anyway, to make it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38848	Mr. Agent Iron Happy Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38849	Gentlemen, a working man sometimes finds himself in a paradoxical situation wanting to be wrong, that moment in politics cannot come to me. If our gross domestic product fell least compared to the other countries we compare to, it may not have been necessary to give up so much. Then we warned that children, therefore, were unprotected and endangered and third generation persons, the last of whom needed to be taken away. Finally, we hoped that there were some areas of education and health care were those in which there should be consensus when making decisions, but that was not the case either. And besides, the number that you're going to read, that the textbooks were supposed to cost 440 million is completely wrong, because your recent close associate you were actually directly in charge of didn't throw 300 million state property into the trash, i.e. textbook, you only needed between 50 and 70 million for everything you've done now and all the kids would have free textbooks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38850	Two notices. The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, scheduled a meeting of this committee for today at 14 o'clock in the "Eugen Quaternika" hall, and the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System, Vladimir Seks changed the schedule for holding a meeting of the committee today at 14 pm. Mr. Representative Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38851	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Prime Ministers, Ministers and Ministers. I'd like to ask the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Branko Vukelic. Here we were witnessing the 18th anniversary of the Croatian Navy and the establishment of the Croatian Navy in Rijeka, and there was a lot of discussion on the protection of Croatian national interests within the framework, and we know that the Croatian Navy also formed the Coast Guard. There was also a lot of talk during the celebration and the construction of a dozen ships for the purposes of the Coast Guard, which could in any case be fully controlled by Croatian national interests, that is the territorial sea and the ZERP. So I'd like to ask you, can you let us know at what stage this coastal patrol ship project is for the purposes of the Coast Guard?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38852	Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38853	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is true that the construction and construction of coastal surrounding ships is one of the most important, especially important projects in equipment, the modernisation of the Armed Forces. He's important for a number of reasons, so let me repeat what you said. They're Coast Guard ships. One of their tasks will also be to preserve national interests at sea, Croatian national interests at sea, but not only that task. She's also a warlord, in the event of a threat, it's also ships of the Navy. It is also to provide daily assistance to islands, islands, rescue aids, search, so there are many tasks to be done by these ships. This project is important and I would say especially because it will be the first project to equip our war, or navy as a whole. The Croatian Navy, which will therefore receive new ships. So far we know the average of ships know 24, 25, 29 and more years that perform tasks and Coast Guards, but also other tasks within the Croatian Navy. The project is also important from another aspect, which is economic, because as you said 10 ships are defined by the Defence Council's decision as a need for the Navy to carry out the Coast Guard tasks. Ten ships, the average ship will be up to 50 meters long. The price on the market is now around 50, 60 million kuna. So it is 500 or 600 million kuna work for Croatian shipbuilders. Because Croatian shipbuilders are able to build such ships. And that's why we think this project is extremely important. We've been working intensively for a year to prepare this project. A complete technical documentation, technical and tactical study, has been developed, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, which will be very transparent, we expect a lot of Croatian shipbuilders to come forward. And what's important for this project, put it in dimensions and budget options for next year and not just for next year. Namely, the plan is to go with the construction of 4 ships in the first phase in three years, with the possibility to contract the other 6 ships in 2012. But first of all, we need to see the budget options of the Department of Defense for next year. I believe that also because of certain redimination of other modernisation projects of the Armed Forces, we will succeed in putting the project into the planned financial gauges of the budget, because it carries the repeat and preservation of jobs in our shipyards, which will get the job. Therefore, I believe that by the end of this year, the competition will be launched and that at the end of next year, at the latest in early 2011, we will have the first such boat to sail our sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38854	Mr. Representative Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38855	Dear Minister, I thank you for your reply, and I am pleased with your decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38856	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38857	Dear Madam Prime Minister, the World Bank has published the latest annual report on the conditions for business activities in 183 countries of the world titled "Doing Business 2010." Which is also an invitation to investors in some way to invest in these countries according to this rating. Croatia is unfortunately placed 103 places in the world between Papua, New Guinea and Solomon Islands. And according to the employment criteria, there are as many as 163 behind Laos. At the same time, in just one year of competitiveness, Croatia fell 11 places. So now it's 72 places, and it's now in Namibia, Morocco and Vietnam. Here's the result of the HDZ government. My question. Do you personally consider yourself responsible for this position of Croatia on these two scales, since you have been acting on a very high level of duty in the government of former Prime Minister Sanader or do you think that responsibility for such disastrously poor indicators lies exclusively on him?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38858	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, here in your brief analysis you forgot to say a few things, among other things, that the number of countries that you are talking about is also increasing from year to year, and then the scale in this regard is changing. But aside from that, we're talking about facts. I don't feel absolutely responsible, but I feel responsible, you're right. From the end of 2003 to today as a member of the government, and here are 2.5 months and the Prime Minister, I feel responsible for everything that is truly excellent and well done. I feel partly responsible, among other things, for the excellent conditions of crisis and recession of tourist season. I remind you, for example, that as part of our 10 anti-recession measures brought by the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader, including the 2009 Tourist Season Action Plan, or the tenth, that the action plan is fully met, that here we show all the indicators for the first 8 months achieved good results and we have 100 thousand overnight stays more than last year, which was a record year, that the forecasts were that the decline will be up to 30% and the loss of more than 2 billion euros, this is not coming true. Why? Because both through the Action Plan and all measures of the Government and of course the Ministry of Tourism, for example at the right time, and this was the end of last year we spent money on advertising from 9m euros to 28m euros and made other efforts towards broadcasting markets, we decided to suspend visas for some countries. But what is also important, resisted all the strength to connect the private sector, i.e. to connect all the participants in this big business, which means creating a framework for a good tourist season. So, for that I absolutely consider myself partly responsible. Also, the indicators here I repeat to the State Statistics Institute that indicate that the decline in GDP in the first quarter was 6,7 now 6,3. In the second quarter, it shows that we stopped falling, that we were slowly rising. And I repeat, that we are Croatia with 3 other countries of Europe, i.e. the European Union, which have such a trend. These are also indicators that absolutely must encourage us. And I will repeat many times what I said in this 2.5 month. That we need a little more community and courage and wisdom and a little more confidence and a little less uninterrupted indignation, that is, a reduction of what we do together. This is important, I think, that is the role and opposition, such as the role of both the ruling coalition and the majority in the Croatian Parliament, as is the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, I mentioned the tourist season. I'll also tell you the fact that this year that the tourism crisis employs 400 more workers than it was last year, which I repeat, was a record year. So these are some indicators that certainly make you happy and that certainly, Mr. Representative, encourages you. So we've done a lot of repeating that we have a stable payment and pensions and salaries, that we haven't touched, and I'm happy to mention it, and that's why I feel personally responsible, that we haven't even touched a kuna of 4 billion kunas that we've provided for the child's allowance, for maternity benefits, for the delicate maternity benefits, and in this way supported families with more children. I personally feel when you seek personal responsibility for the fact that we have not touched a major project of the most intelligent supplement for each third and fourth children, with a regular addition of 500 kuna to each child and in this crisis year. I personally feel responsible for this because until two months ago, I was a minister of the family and stood up for these projects. I feel absolutely responsible for not touching the social benefits we raised last year, and we haven't touched in these times of crisis. I also feel responsible for that. And we share the responsibility absolutely in all this with the members and members of the government and around here is the fact that we have provided the last rebalancing of the 200 million kuna for additional support in the economy and for the preservation of jobs in those economies with problems. So, absolutely for all of this, I share responsibility with the members of the government and I feel personally responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38860	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38861	Unfortunately, this table was made for a period far before, well before the crisis and yet the results are very, very bad and unsatisfactory despite the fact that the table has been expanded for the two countries, as Vice President Polancec has given you a quick briefing, so that Croatia could at best be 101th in competitiveness. Unfortunately, other indicators are such that Croatia is 132 after investor protection, 101 after the start of business activity, 163 after employment of workers, despite these 400 which are more employed in tourism. The only thing we're good at is the tax system. We're very good here. We're even 39.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38862	Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question will be addressed to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism, Mr Grgic, although the Prime Minister answered in one part of my question. However, we are witnessing and we fully understand what tourism means for Croatia. With the coming economic crisis in Croatia, concerns were growing and certain that the reasons were much higher in those who live not only on tourism, but on every man who lives from his work in Croatia. How will the tourist season be reflected in such an economic crisis? I have to remind all of us that some estimates before the tourist season itself were that it would be great or very good if it was down to 10%, so if it was minus 15%, it would come to a minus 30%. What we can read, hear, these days what the tourist season has achieved in this year, although it still lasts, of course the most and the strongest part has passed, but the tourist season continues. I am personally interested in what results have been achieved so far, meaning in the number of nights, looking at the financial part, looking at the part of the employment of new people. I'm interested in your evaluations, which will be by the end of the tourist season, whether the trend will continue positive or be a negative trend. And of course, I'm interested in what it means for our surroundings of a country that is certainly strong, I'm not going to say much stronger than we are, but if they're much bigger, they're certainly much stronger than we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38864	State Secretary Branko Grgic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38865	Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliamentarian, you've listed many of the catastrophics who have predicted this season will end and -25 to -30% as regards guest arrivals. But I'd say we all lived in suspense of what the season would be like. Even the assessment of the World Tourism Association of the WTO was for this area of the Mediterranean - 10% as regards the arrival of guests. We recognized it in the ministry already in November of last year, formed a committee of the common public and private sector and brought together measures that had already resulted in the signing of a contract with 618 agencies, tour operators or travel organizers and already we had a million and 400 thousand safe arrivals of guests, which is 40% of the total organised arrival of guests. We also increased the promotion funds from 9 to 28 million euros, targeted those destinations and those broadcasting markets that are important for Croatia, increased the funds for domestic tourists and doubled the means for internet advertising and TV global advertising, so we had over 300 million clicks on our website. These are all measures with an action plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was fully implemented for 2009. All of these measures have created assumptions that, by the end of August, Croatian tourism from the minus goes to plus. We have 49 million overnight stays if we watch from January to August, which is 0.2% more than in the same period of the previous year or if we observe August 2.8 million arrivals alone, which is 3% more than last year and 19.2 million overnights, which is 5% more than last year. What is important is to say that only in our environment, in our competitive environment, Turkey, which is at the level of Croatia, i.e. Tunisia, which is the only one ahead of us that we are very pleased with the results achieved. What's important is that Mrs. Prime Minister mentioned that she's a new seasonal person this year, 12 thousand 468, which is 400 more than last year. I must stress that the season, the post-season, is still under way. We're in September, and the post-season is 20% of the total season, and we're still implementing measures from Internet advertising while the second part of the advance, that joint advertising with travel agencies. And we hope that these measures will bear fruit, or we are safe at the announcement of booking in the 9th month and that these results will ultimately be even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38866	Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38867	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I am pleased that you could, of course, share information with me and all of us, especially because many before the tourist season itself knew how to insult the Ministry of Tourism, people who work in the Ministry that they are capable, are not skilled, are not professional enough to do their job. This is only one proof and an indication that it is not all so black and that some can take a step forward and can do positive things for Croatia, which is certainly for every praise and I am glad that this went in that direction, which is in the interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38868	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38869	Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister... I'm sorry, Madam Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, the government's recent decision to abolish free textbooks has opened Pandora's box, which has brought a lot of problems to light. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first, of course, is that the government practically lost 380 million kuna overnight, because so much value of the textbook ended up more or less in garbage or old paper, and then the question of the quality of the textbooks themselves opened up. It has been shown that textbook publishers produce targeted bad textbooks that are falling apart, which cannot be used for more than one year, which are therefore printed on greasy, hard and very hard paper. It has been shown that publishers change the content of textbooks every year so that they have to buy new ones. But it has also been shown that since the government took over the purchase of textbook textbooks, the price of textbooks has jumped by 70%. It has also been shown that publishers do not choose the means to enter schools, so it is obvious that under the ministry's quiet protectorate there is a process of corruption in which publishers buy computers, television sets, interactive boards, take out excursions, and in some rumors it is also about giving money to choose exactly their textbooks and to make as much money as possible. This is simply an unsustainable condition and I'm asking you. What is the government going to do is make sure this is the kind of circus that we've witnessed this year doesn't happen again and there's not much money that they've invested in this year instead of the country this time, parents buying their own books. And I remind you, that's what my colleague Flego said in the light of the fact that publishers don't respect the law and don't prepare textbooks for in the law and rules of the ministry provided for by the deadline because some textbooks didn't go out until September 15th, and they had to go out in July. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38870	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38871	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, certainly above all, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport and the Government will still do everything necessary to make some of the things that you've been talking about change. First of all, I believe that you are informed, that it is, in fact, this job is at the end, the new Law on textbooks where I personally asked you to prepare such a Law on textbooks that will allow one textbook to be used for at least 4 years. So I believe that soon this law will be in front of the government, and then before you will also be represented by MPs and MPs. So it will certainly be on the trail and what you're talking about. As for your other allegations on the issue, especially what you claimed was part of the corruption in some schools related to some publishers, etc. I assume that, Mr. Representative, in accordance with the obligation of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, you have submitted applications to the competent institutions. So if you're not, I'm inviting you and recommend you do it. So we have the BOOK, we have the State's Attorney's Office, we have the Home Office, we have the police. So if you know and if you knew about the corruption cases you had to do it, I'm sure you know that, you had to report it. If any kind of application came to me or any other member of the government, believe me, we'd do it the second that we did it. So, with textbooks or textbooks, we're going with the Bookbooks Act, and I believe that you, too, will support it in the Parliament procedure and your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38872	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38873	Madam President, I'm sorry that you answered my question in part two this way because it's your job and the job of the service that you're in charge of. It is not difficult to find out how the school’s basic resources and technical assistance are increasing, or how schools came to them. And the Ministry of Education, i.e. Science and Education, knows exactly what it's about, but it silently approves such things because the government does not provide sufficient resources to equip schools in all of the doactic and dredging aids that school needs to be on the disposition. I think it's hypocritical and that you have to call your minister who's in charge of it first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38874	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will refer my question to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Tourism, Mr Grgić, although most of it is already responsible for what I was interested in, which is the success of the tourist season and the latest data related to it. First of all, I should like to comment that, in fact, in the variant, the recession package of measures of the Croatian government and the action plan for tourism have actually yielded results that are above all expectations. Because really after those catastrophic announcements that the tourist season is going to fail and even 15% and 20%. Here we are witnessing that she is even in some indicators and better than last year's record. I am interested, given that most of the passengers came to Croatia, most tourists came to Croatia by land on the road, on the highway this part that remained as an airline destination, as the Dubrovnik area has somehow recorded less results in the part of the airline. Will the Ministry of Tourism support some of the actions that have already started from the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska to help just such a destination, which is unfortunately still traffic-insulated. We hope that's not going to last long. But until this state of traffic isolation is corrected that certain measures are precisely targeted towards these destinations to make this plane traffic as intense as possible and to bring as many tourists as possible. So, please, I'm asking you, are you familiar with these initiatives? What measures will you propose for next year and if there are any measures that you can already say about the support of these destinations such as Dubrovnik, so to aviation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38876	State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism Branko Grgic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You're right, you're right, the 92% of the total arrival of tourists who come to our country by land and certainly the problem of Dubrovnik is that it's as if it's an aviation approach to its destination. We have had a special measure in our measures this year – measures to encourage regional aviation programmes for Croatia. In these measures, together with the Croatian Tourist Community and economic operators in Dubrovnik and other parts of Croatia, Split, Zadar, Pula, we also practically gave support to nearly 2 and a half million kunas just to eliminate the advantage that other cities have over aviation. The same measure will be contained in our measures for 2010. We're familiar with that problem. We are talking to representatives and Dubrovnik-Neretva County as well as to all others who depend on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38878	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38879	Thank you. I look forward to this position of the ministry. I think that the best measure to improve transport especially on the road towards Dubrovnik would, of course, be the completion of these two key projects, which is the construction of the highway to Dubrovnik itself and the construction of the Pelješki bridge. Because it's actually going to mean a way out of traffic isolation. On this yesterday all parties supported the completion of these key road projects, infrastructures as quickly as possible, because it will be the best help for Dubrovnik as a destination, tourist destination and the whole of Dubrovnik. And be assured that the results of tourism will be above all of these current indicators. I look forward to that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38880	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38881	Thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister, at the beginning of the year, the gas crisis caused by insufficiently secure amounts of gas has caused our economy more than 2 billion still unsettled damages. In addition to the other difficulties that the government of the Republic of Croatia provides for our citizens by its inaction, it has provided for freezing at that time. The fact is that we've welcomed the gas crisis with a semi-empty underground warehouse, the fact is we haven't secured enough gas, the fact is that there was no crisis plan at that point. On the other hand, the European Commission warned mid-flight of a possible new gas shortage. So I'm interested in what activities the government has launched to ensure the security of gas supply, primarily the economy and the citizens, and can the government guarantee its citizens and the economy a secure supply of gas?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38882	Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38883	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Representative, I'll answer you very briefly. You asked what the government did and what it did? I'll tell you everything. All that is necessary, everything the government needs is doing to secure the supply of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia with gas. As I believe you have seen in the media, I also had the opportunity to meet with Prime Minister Putin at a big rally in Gdanjska, so the rally for the celebration of the 70th anniversary of World War II, to meet with Prime Minister Putin, to have a very good meeting, and then we agreed, Mr Putin invited me to come on an official visit and, of course, to discuss this issue too. Of course it was the subject of our bilateral conversation. I expect a soon-to-be call, or rather, to determine the date of my visit, so I will, with great satisfaction, inform you about it afterwards, and if you want all the details on the basis of the questions you have asked, I can provide you with a written reply in which we will explain absolutely everything we have done and what we are doing at this time on security supply, not just citizens, but of course and economies, which is also extremely important.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38884	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38885	Thank you very much. Well, Madam President... I have no doubt at all of your will and desire and willingness and need and engagement to solve this whole problem before it arises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, experience speaks, the whole job is done by your vice-president of the government, given his huge engagement in INA, and as useful as the engagement of Minister Schuker knows through the debt of the state towards INA, his huge engagement as a resolute minister in Croatia, his huge engagement now and in Podravka as a Koprivnicar. I don't think this burden he's capable of, he just doesn't get to quality it out, so here I am warning you of that problem and I'm asking you for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38886	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38887	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking the last-minute question to the Prime Minister, and you'll see why it's last-minute. You, Madam Prime Minister, were the candidate yourself in the previous presidential elections, i.e. the candidate, and regular presidential elections are held for 3 months to 4 at the most. The question for you, Madam President, is whether the competent state authorities, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior are working or may have already done so we don't know what I would look forward to, to harmonize the list of voters with residence records or by not knowing which time we're going to watch the replay of our famous director, Krsta Papiæ, "When the dead are singing"? [[/Intruder Damir Cain: And when will the government call the elections? And that. When will the government call the election?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38888	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38889	Mr. Sprem, Agent Cain is still reaching out to your question, when will the government call the election, so if you allow me to answer this part as well. So, yes, you said well, I was the candidate of the Croatian Democratic Union in the 2005 presidential elections, which I am proud of. Here, I got in the second round and I got 35% of the votes. I think it was a solid result in conditions where I was alone against everyone, i.e. as the candidate of my party, and behind President Mesic's candidates were all other parties. However, it is now of course past. The president and I have great relations now in this new, new role for me as Prime Minister. So, I can answer your question that, yes, of course, the Ministry of Administration is doing what it can in these conditions to update the lists in every way and to have these elections and each other in the framework in which we all want them, and we in the position and you in the opposition. That's where our efforts absolutely don't differ. And here's to this question of when the government will call the election. In time, Mr. Caine, so here, I answer two questions now. In time, do not worry, you will have plenty of time to prepare for the campaign, but of course for everything that comes next to the election for the President of the Republic of Croatia. The government takes care of you. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38890	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38891	Madam Prime Minister, you've given me a soft answer to my question, and now I'm going to tell you why, if you'll allow Mr. Vice President If you'll allow me to answer now, I'm the one who's having a soft answer to the question. [[Intruder Vladimir Shakespeare: How?]] Milk, indeterminate, inaccurate It's quiet, it's soft. [["Miss Vladimir Seks: "Milk?]] Slight water, soft water. That's sweet, yeah. So let me. Facts, I'm speaking statistical facts. The population is currently 4 million 435 thousand, or according to the 2001 census, 982. The number of voters in 2007 was 4 million 478 thousand 554. So in 2007, there were 42,000 572 more voters in the past parliamentary elections than in the population. The second fact, in 2000, this is even worse, unfortunately, in 2000 there were 4 million 252 thousand 921, and 2007. 4 million 478 thousand 554. So in seven years, we grew up with voters 225 thousand 633. And at the same time in 10 years, so even more than this 7, we were born less than we died in 91 thousand 749, so the birth rate is less than mortality. And now I'm asking the question. No, no, well then I'm not asking a question, then I'm commenting. Is there any state in the world like this? And I know where the solution is. The solution is to have one residence, so I asked such a precise question, not two, and as we know from the previous local elections, the Dusina case, next to Vrgorca 404 registered voters in one home address. So, I'm closing. Individuals absolutely systematically and organisedly provide mass enrolment to imaginary addresses, which is a crime and electoral crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38892	Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38893	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ms. Minister and Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. My question concerns the problem of the company "Mungos" d.o.o. from Zagreb, and it is directed by the Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Government to Mrs Đurđi Adlešić. Namely, a new company "Mungos" d.o.o. was founded. from Sisak who should become the legal follower of the company "Mungos" d.o.o. from Zagreb. We know that the company "Mungos" d.o.o. from Zagreb so far covers about 15% of the demining area in the Republic of Croatia, and this also applies to about 954 km of real dangerous space where the danger of mines threatens. We also know that Mungos d.o.o. Zagreb has already been burdened with problems and debts for 10 years, primarily because of the very bad leadership in the company and now I am interested in what will happen to the re-establishment of the company "Mungos" d.o.o.? What is the fate of this company? And what about the company's employees? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38894	Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I think you'll be pleased with the answer. You've made a good diagnosis. The fact is that it's a company that's been having serious problems for 10 years, and if I'm not mistaken, I protest at least twice a year, and I could say, with full rights, because their status has arisen because of bad company leadership. At one point last year, it was no longer possible to go, after the protests we sat down for long talks, I must admit they weren't easy, we agreed to reshuffle the company. The reshuffle is over. A new company, which works at CROMAC, has been established, with 119 employees from the old company "Mungos" who have already renegotiated four new jobs. They are now a competitive company on the market, and will be able to hold a balance and say jobs will end before the deadline. What is particularly cheerful is the sentence said by the director of the International Mine Action Centre, when he visited Croatia, which is that the demining model implemented by Croatia is one of the best models and that after the completion of these operations in Croatia demining could become our real output product. I hope you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38896	Mr. Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38897	Thank you very much, ma'am... I'm happy with your answer. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] I consider this an extremely significant question,... They forget about this danger of mines and I look forward to having you answer so well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38898	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38899	Mrs. Kosor, at the beginning of the government's anti-corruption campaign, marketing videos filled with tiny ants appeared. Then the ant disappeared, and in the media an ant appeared. And not only this, people have been able to read through the paper all summer about numerous corruption and criminal affairs in public enterprises. Do all these affairs have anything in common? Something that connects them? They do. All these people in those positions were placed as party dependants, as relatives, as friends. And they were not incompetent and lazy, as they are often spoken of. No, no, no. They took the job right away. Their main job was stealing. It was stuffed in private pockets, pushed, I guess, in party, because it had to be returned in some way to long strangers for such profitable places where they were put. And the party did not remain in their debt. A party like that has been defending until recently. Until the pressure of the public becomes such that it is no longer possible to defend them. Let's just remember that your presidential candidate defended Mr. Roncevic, our colleague from the parliamentary commission. He did not hesitate to call one prominent general, the hero of all the war of the Homeland a liar, an ignorant, and all with the sole purpose of defending the crime of his party colleague. Well, now, I'm asking you, whoever caused the problem can't be his solution. It's you. It's HDZ. When will you finally leave, leave the place to the capable and honest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38900	Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38901	Mr. Vice President, MP, I'm not leaving and not a single member of this government will leave. However, with all our jobs for Croatia, we will prepare for the 2011 elections and I am quite certain on the basis of what you say we will win the 2011 elections. That's definitely it. Why am I still sure? Here, it'll be a man. Why am I still sure? Because here I have a document that I have already quoted, but let's all the way to the end, so DUNEA, it's as you know the DUNEA Regional Development Agency where it's very clear, where the director signs that many, now lists those names whose names I won't read, but says: employed at the recommendation and at the request of Mr Igor Dragovan, employed at the request and recommendation of the SDP City Organisation, with the recommendation of the SDP City Organisation, that's the next person, etc., etc. Don't let me read to you. I won't mention, repeat, names of people. This document has been signed. I could count the others. Why would I bring that up? Because, Mr. Representative, it's absolutely certain that none of the people in this Croatia, but anywhere else in the world, are doing some dishonest work. He doesn't do it because he's a member of a party, but he does it because he's an dishonest person, because he's a dishonest man. As you have seen under the pressure of your members, your parties are many people employed, only because they are members of your party. Therefore, it will not lead us anywhere. They'll take us to the cause of what the government is doing. So I'll mention that we've made a new law on criminal proceedings, that we've amended the Penal Code, that we've passed a new Public Procurement Act, that the government has made a decision on a centralized public procurement that we'll save some money on the same time. If we had passed the Law on Public Private Partnership, the Law on Personal Identification, which will certainly be a strong and important lever in the fight against corruption. The Law on State's Attorney's Office, the Law on Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime has been passed today, I would also open the Zagreb Police Department of the National Police Office if I can leave if it ends in the morning, after the department in Split, Rijeka and Osijek. A strong mechanism in the fight against corruption. I will also mention the actions of "Maestra", "Kormila", Ipsilona, Dubai, Pohlepe, Index, Diagnosis, Five Stars, Gruntovac, etc. These are all the actions that have been implemented and implemented in the mandate of this past and pre-government. I will mention to you that according to data from September 1st of last year until September 1st this year, the SCIENCE for the criminal acts of corruption, i.e. 864 persons for corruptive crimes were reported, investigative claims were filed against 364 persons, 231 persons were charged and 94 convictions, 11 liberating and 3 refutable, etc., and so on. Therefore, this government, as it has done, has passed and it does absolutely everything in the fight against corruption, organised crime, etc. Therefore, be assured that we will continue and fight the treatment we see in Dubrovnik, which was signed by the Director of DUNAI absolutely against any such action because we want to employ people who are able, who are trained and that everyone in Croatia knows that I especially tell young people, that they will get a job, that they will make progress, that they will pass the exam if they know and if they do so to their own strengths and their knowledge, and that I believe that in this, Mr. Stazic will give us absolute and full support, once again I repeat this government, all members and members of the Government, no one and nothing of this kind will stop and prevent us from fighting corruption, wherever and against everyone who is called and any party belongs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38902	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38903	That's very nice of you to say, but first. The BOOK and the state's attorney's office are fighting corruption, there's some success in that, but corruption when it comes to public enterprises, corruption when it comes to ministers who need to be monitored by journalists, and only then is the state's attorney's office to take their jobs, remember that their job is to prosecute that corruption. Journalists should be hired by the state's attorney's office. It would probably be more effective. Secondly, the document you quoted from this Dubrovnik Development Agency, the director who signed it, she was accused of mobbing, so to avoid the charges of mobbing, then draws attention to the public by muddying the SDP. They forgot to tell you so for your information, so along the way, let's inform Mrs. Hlorka Novak Srzić, because in her contribution to her television, it's also not said so the second time she gives such a presentation that she gives the full truth. And third, I asked you when you'd leave. The latest survey of citizens' opinions published in September this year shows that 61.5% of citizens do not, you no longer have the support of the public and you represent no one but yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38904	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the questions, it's our guest, Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38905	I'm asking Mrs. Kosor. Vukovari Vukik was a loser for years, and then in 2003 he was rescheduled with state money. The HDZ administration has been brought in which again in 6 years, it has lost 700 million kuna. Vupik was destroyed planically by taking him into bankruptcy. Three tenders for the sale of Vupik have failed, but then the workers of Vupika themselves found a good investor, Osijek's grain with a letter of intent sent to the Privatisation Fund offered debt recovery, 100 million kuna investment, which is the most important contribution of 25% of the shares to the Vupik workers. For the first time, the Vupika administration showed little independence from HDZ's policy and, together with the trade unions, accepted the offer, however, was not accepted by the Privatisation Fund and the Vupika administration was removed due to the disruption of the robbery plans. A new tender is now being opened and it is more unfavourable for a potential investor who will not have the right to write down war damage as it was in the privatisation of all other combinations. The question is, why are you playing with the fate of 900 employees in Vupik, why are you pushing Vupik into bankruptcy and who you intended to completely destroy Vupik to buy for 1 kuna, and then fire the workers and then keep the land, cattle, agricultural machinery, hotel and all other properties of the Vukovar Combined.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38906	I thank you for your response to the Honorable President, Mrs. Kosor, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38907	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative. I have to say that I'm surprised despite this canonada of questions from the SDP club that I'm looking forward to asking questions exclusively to me, and I want it to be all the following current mornings by 2011, don't grieve me, and I don't understand why you're playing with the fate of the people employed in Vupik by asking such a tending and I have to say dim questions accusing the government of wanting to destroy Vupik or support some dishonest actions. As you know, the competition has been called and the government will absolutely work within its powers and opportunities to do everything in particular for these people because we know very well what they are and how much they have suffered and how important Vupik is not only for people who are employed but also for their families. And I ask you to gather together with us on a joint job, not to misinformed people who are in a difficult position anyway and in a difficult state. And absolutely on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I reject your claim that we are playing with the fate of these people. I absolutely reject that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38908	Thank you. Commentary, honourable representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38909	Well, the robbery privatisation obviously wasn't over in the '90s. HDZ does not give up that recipe. It's a shame that you're destroying "Vupik" not only to exploit some new HDZ, but because it's in Vukovar, the city where you lost the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38910	Your Honor, do not use the Assembly speaker in this way. This is an honorable home, where honorable people who need to behave with honor are sitting. We keep asking questions. It is next to the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government. I refer my question to Mr Tomislav Ivić, Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Dear Ministers, I am getting enquiries from unemployed Croatian defenders more and more, and these are the most frequently asked questions about how unemployed Croatian defenders who want to join together and start with cooperative entrepreneurship can best get acquainted with the work of cooperatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38912	Thank you. Answer, Honorable Minister Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, the answer is basically very simple. The best instructions can be given in the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, at the Croatian Defence Administration, but the answer can also be given directly on the ground because the Ministry in cooperation with the 3 reference centres for the development of cooperativeism in Samobor, Metkovic and Vladislavci near Osijek is working on the development of defence cooperatives and I can say with satisfaction that in the past 4, 5 and a half years, it has been extremely much done on this scale as part of the Croatian Government's programme on the employment of unemployed Croatian defenders. I can say that over the past 5 and a half years, 368 cooperatives have been established in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that, with direct support from the Croatian Defence Ministry, 271 cooperatives have been established, that in these 368 cooperatives there are more than 4 thousand Croatian defenders. It is mainly about cooperatives dealing with agricultural production, but there are other types of activities that cooperatives are involved in. What I can say, here these days will be held, on the 26th, so in 3 days, at Koprivnica Defence Cooperatives' Fair, the fifth in a row, where more than 200 defence cooperatives will participate with their product, where they will present the work of their cooperatives of course. And I can say with pleasure that through this government programme implemented through the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity on the employment of unemployed Croatian defenders over the past 5 years, the job has found more than 10,000 unemployed defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38914	Thank you. Commentary, distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38915	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I am sure that many Croatian defenders who have decided to go to entrepreneurship together will be much clearer to them. But what is important is to point out as far as the Government of the Republic of Croatia is headed by Mrs Kosor and, of course, with the Ministry of Family and Defence headed by Minister Tomislav Ivic is taking further steps for Croatian defenders? It is also important to note that lately it has been divided, in fact in this year already 64 cars that have been set up for the disabled Croatian defenders. Not long ago, we witnessed 25 of these cars were shared in Zagreb. The plan for this year 119 is to still deliver the cars that I've given the question of whether or not this year will be difficult and difficult, will it be respected? I received a positive answer and I thank both the government and the competent ministry for continuing to care for Croatian defenders, especially those with disabilities, in this difficult situation, the crisis year for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38916	Thank you. It is up to us to ask the honourable representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the government, respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Here we are today, i.e. in the morning, as we call it, on the basis of questions raised and certain answers, and on the basis of these answers we see that the Ministry of Tourism has been successful, that the proposed measures of the Ministry of Tourism have been successful, that the tourist season has been successful, that is to say, and that we can expect that it will be even more successful and, on the basis of all these facts listed today, I am asking the State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism, Branko Grgić. What are the plans of the tourism ministry regarding the preparation of the new tourist season in terms of the search for new tourism products, or new tourism markets? That is, which is the plans of the Ministry of Tourism for the development of continental tourism next year, since continental tourism participates in the overall tourism activity in a small percentage, and we all know that opportunities exist in continental tourism and that the potentials are great, from hunting tourism to rural tourism and everything else we can offer on the continent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38918	Thank you. Answer, esteemed Branko Grgic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Parliamentarian is right. The share of continental tourism in total tourism is only 5%, 90% is in favour of coastal tourism. We are aware of these situations and have already brought a number of new programmes and measures this year that will affect the development of tourism in the country. Our programme is also called "Development of Tourism in the Village", where we give up to 300,000 euros in value and we approve loans and subsidize interest to develop rural households into new tourist facilities. There are also a number of grant aid programmes for rural tourism, such as heritage, green furrows, thematic roads, unfettered tourism. Namely, we aim to use Croatia's complementarity and to combine coastal and continental tourism. We are witnessing how many national parks are visited, which are 95% on the continent, and how they deliver excellent results. Our goal is to connect coastal and continental tourism, as we believe Croatia is one unique offer with tourism of 365 days a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38920	Thank you. Commentary Honored Representative Stanko Grčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38921	I thank the Secretary of State for the answer given. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club think this is an extremely important area with great opportunities and investments in the development of continental tourism and that this investment can certainly contribute to the overall development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. And here we are, at the end of the continent, looking forward to this understanding shown. After all, these plans and programmes related to the development of continental tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38922	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38923	Thank you, Vice President. My question goes to the Prime Minister. So in the middle of the summer, we experienced that one of the HDZ's ministers had offered to resign because of his resolute responsibility, which, of course, was not accepted. It is Minister Bozidar Kalmeti who has managed to get away with no consequences at this time, although his responsibility for the terrible accident of the tilt train is much deeper and more serious than that of the resistor. Prime Minister, what is the real reason for your disapproval of Minister Calmeta's resignation?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38924	Thank you. Prime Minister's reply to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38925	I'll answer you very directly. The reason why I did not accept the proposed resignation of the minister who, of course, offered first of all for moral reasons is that Minister Kalmeta is not guilty of the accident that took place. You saw what the investigation showed. So, surely, I appreciated his moral act. He was, like all of us, extremely shaken by the tragedy that took place. And what is extremely important is that Minister Kalmeta is involved in the same seconds to solve the consequences and to help the victims, or their families. But also in ensuring conditions that the investigation shows what the real reason for this accident is. And of course, he's gone through a series of other measures. Perhaps it would be good for you to ask the minister to specify and state it correctly. But certainly Minister Calmeta is absolutely one of the great ministers in this government and in the previous two. So, do your job consciously. There's a lot of good results. I would especially point out one that is less visible in his work, and that care is an extremely important and valuable social dialogue. So, his contact as a minister almost daily with trade unions, his engagement to constantly talk to workers about their problems, about possible ways to solve these problems, but also the whole system for which he is in charge or better told about which he is responsible, as you know, is extremely large. But I would also point out a whole series of important work victories, and here I can call it that which happened precisely thanks to the work of Minister Calmeta. I will remind you of the last, not only the construction of highways, roads, but also the fact that we opened other tunnels on the extremely important tourism road Zagreb-Split or Split-Zagreb, as you will and certainly was one of the stones in the mosaic of the successful tourist season of the Republic of Croatia at the time of the global crisis and recession. So, that's for sure, because many tourists are showing this analysis, decided to come to Croatia at the last minute. And our advantage is that many tourists can come by car. This year, thanks to the work of Minister Calmeta and his ministry, there were no delays, the vehicle was casual and it also encouraged other tourists to come to us. Here, these are some, and because I'm working with the unions, I'm going back to the social partnership, and I'm proposing that Minister Calmeta enter the Economic Social Council instead of me. Now he's the vice president. The next year will be when it's the government's turn for the presidency, the president. And there will again give all its strength and skills and knowledge to further develop a social partnership that is particularly important to us at the moment Croatia is located. Here, I hope you're satisfied with my answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38926	Thank you. A comment by Honorable Representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38927	Well, I'm not happy with your answer, but I must admit I didn't expect a different answer. Of course, Minister Kalmeta could not answer this question because the question was addressed to you, or to accept, or not to accept its resignation. What I think is that the depth of the Minister's responsibility is such that his god-awful resignation is a lie. Minister Kalmeta, in my opinion and the opinion of the SDP, is without doubt both directly and indirectly responsible for this tragedy because he did not worry about the situation in his portfolio. Its responsibility is to paint corruption and economic crime in the Croatian Railways, stop the initial project of modernisation of railways, abolish a single kuna from a litre of oil fuels for the modernisation of HZ, which did not lead to the cost of gasoline. So Minister Calmeta and HDZ's government have been working systematically and planfully on destroying the railroads since 2003, and today we have a modernized and untapped railroad...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38928	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38929	...of the Serbian tragedy would be nothing, and that means you took his responsibility to yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38930	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38931	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government. I will refer the question to the president, and it refers to the finding that the government's agricultural policy today comes down to ad hoc resolution of farmers' demands, and their primary purpose is to buy social peace. Both themselves as Deputy Prime Minister at the time of Prime Minister Sanader, and today as Prime Minister, they took part in negotiations with dairy and cereals producers. It is characteristic that you have always been as easy on promises as it was in a tractor protest in Zagreb, when your vice president has now referred you to criticism that there is no means for those promises. Today as Prime Minister for the last negotiations with the peasant associations, you again promised to pay off all the backlogs of last year, pay off this year by the end of this year. 205 million last year, 40% of the remaining incentives, from this year 15 lip for this year's wheat production. My question, Madam Prime Minister, is what kind of budget money are you going to make it happen and who are you going to take it from to fulfill that last promise you made to the farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38932	Thank you. Answer, Prime Minister, the Honorable Mrs. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38933	Well, Mr. Representative, I will, of course, go over this qualification of yours that I'm easy to promise. She could be analyzed with multiple aspects, but I'm not gonna do it now. Everything we've promised, everything the government has promised in the talks with the farmers, the government will meet. I don't know, maybe you missed it, maybe you didn't read the paper and watch TV and listen to the radio, I recently invited all representatives and leaders of the Association of Farmers from the Republic of Croatia, meaning the producer from milk to vegetables and fruits, meat, etc. We had a great conversation, I received support which is particularly important for me to get support from this very group of Croatian citizens who sometimes live hard working 24 hours, fighting for survival and doing extremely difficult work. So, I got their support, we agreed on everything the government will do by the end of this year, but also important in next year. We fulfill those obligations. If you want, I can write to you in writing everything that is truly agreed and agree with the Minister of Agriculture with petrochemicals, related to artificial fertilisers. I believe you'll be particularly interested in that, too. As for the support, I'll only mention one small piece of information. At the time of the SDP government, I have to mention this now because you're asking such questions, so I have to refer to myself, the incentives of about 900 million, billions of kuna, and now here we are at the time of our government of three and a half billion. I think that information is small and small, too. As far as Vice President Pankretic is concerned, not only has he never criticised me, but we have excellent cooperation, co-operation of the true and true partnership as I have with other Deputy Prime Ministers and Vice-Presidents, but also with all ministers and ministers, and so it will be. Of course, both personally and to the government as a whole, it is extremely important to have the rich experience that the HSS has brought to our coalition, clearly related to agriculture and problem-solving. It is now in place of Minister of Agriculture Minister Cobankovic, who is also highly esteemed and respected among farmers, among peasants. And I am sure that, not only will we finish all the projects that we have agreed, but we will significantly improve the whole system and what is most important, finish the favourable agriculture negotiations with the European Commission, do all the work that is important for the entry into the European Union, and I repeat by not knowing which time today, and by solving many problems in agriculture, prepare for Croatia's entry into the European Union, where the Croatian farmers will have a particularly important place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38934	Thank you. Commentary, distinguished representative of Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38935	Well, Madam Vice President, I'd like you to give me a written note about how you're going to make these promises happen. However, I could also comment, the smaller incentives were, but the smaller was the import and the question was how important it was for these incentives to come into the right hands, but that's the second question. However, precisely because of this way of running your government's agricultural policy, this agriculture has come to a pre-flight state. However, these subsidies did not result in increased production, but rather increased food imports. It is also a question of whether and how and how you should only change this situation, not only with the change of the resolute minister, because both Minister Pankretic and Minister Cobankovic have been changing this portfolio since 2000, but everything seems to me in the direction of the collapse that this agriculture will inevitably experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38936	Thank you very much. Time! ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's time for the esteemed representative Damir Caine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38937	Your Honor, Madam President, the defence ministers may as well, the issue concerns Afghanistan. For five years I have voted against sending Croatian soldiers to Afghanistan... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38938	Your Honor, who was the question finally referred to?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38939	Or presidents or...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38940	Identify yourselves. ... Identify yourselves. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38941	That she's tired and then maybe the Minister of the Army, but better the presidents. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38942	Presidents, okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38943	Better Minister, then Minister, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38944	Let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38945	No, no, come on, the presidents. Okay? But give me my time. For five years now, I have voted against sending Croatian soldiers to Afghanistan alone in this House, but as I said in another case, the other will come to mine. At last today, the Americans realize that this mission in Afghanistan has been lost. Croatia is fortunate that none of our soldiers have died today and we all pray that it stays that way. But with all the professionalism, with all the training, we're afraid of the worst. All of Italy because of the deaths of these six soldiers was shocked a few days ago. Italy has 60 million inhabitants. The truth is, it should be acknowledged, it should be fair that foreign troops have helped the Republic of Croatia largely in that period since '92. Or '91. '95. The question is, what if we didn't get that UNPROFOR aid and not to list other international missions? However, I fear that the Americans in Afghanistan will pass as the Soviets have passed, that NATO will pass where we are, as did those in the Warsaw Pact. The question, therefore, is whether the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan is being considered in Croatia. I get absolutely, we all know that, I agree this decision isn't just government. This decision is on the president of the state, this decision is also on the Croatian Parliament, but I don't think we have anything to look for in lost missions, and I think it's clear to everyone today that this war cannot be won by the military, but only by concrete financial assistance can be obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38946	Time! Thank you very much. The answer, this is Mrs. Kosor or Mr. Jandrokovic. ... Then the defence minister, distinguished Branko Vukelic, will respond. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, MP. I'm going to answer this very specific part of the question very briefly. There is no debate in Croatia and is not considering the withdrawal of our troops from Afghanistan. However, it is also necessary to say a few sentences in favour of what this mission in Afghanistan is, which is to finally remind all of us together to participate in this mission Croatian soldier and before Croatia was a member of the NATO Alliance, that the mission is to train, secure peace and train the Afghan army and police to carry out the task on its own. So it becomes a free, democratic country, a stable country. And Croatia has long been defined. I am particularly pleased that all parliamentary parties have always had a consensus on such an active Croatian policy when it comes to participating in missions around the world where we are trying to create conditions, where we are therefore trying to ensure a normal, peaceful life that is a prerequisite for every country's development. And I'll remind you today we are on 12 missions under the leadership of the United Nations. We are on a mission to Kosovo, on a mission to Afghanistan, in Chad. So, around the world, this is the cornerstone of the foreign policy for which this Croatian Parliament, which implements both this and the previous Croatian Governments, has been defined. But also the role, task and concept of the mission in Afghanistan and all NATO alliance partners, but not only them, because the mission is also part of countries that are not members of NATO's alliance, so the effort to create conditions for the normal functioning of the state, to train the Afghan army and police. In this Croatia is ahead with its contribution, primarily with our teams that train the Afghan army. We're thinking about how many options there will be. This will be a clear decision by the Parliament to engage in the training of the Afghan police. Therefore, it is all on the way that all these international forces are practically in the shortest time to create conditions so that these forces can withdraw and leave to the Afghan military, police, civil authorities' institutions to lead, manage their country for the benefit of their citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38948	Thank you very much. Comment Commissioner Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38949	This way, I don't impute that we understand each other, not the government, not the Parliament, not the president. Finally, if I'm not mistaken in 2001, I've voted for it, but I've voted five years after I met what it looks like I'm not going to say it on the ground, but at their command center in the Netherlands. So I've been voting against sending Croatian soldiers to Afghanistan ever since. For the other missions, I absolutely did, but let's start talking in the Croatian public and talk about the act of withdrawal. We're not as many as 60 million as the Italians have. There's four and a half million of us in this country. The world has helped us. We must also make amends to the world. But let me be skeptical and have the right to fear the worst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38950	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38951	Thank you, Vice President. It's a question for the Prime Minister. Dear Madam Prime Minister, a specific question. Can you guarantee that the privatisation of Croatian shipyards will end in a way that will ensure the continuation of shipbuilding activities in them, not that it will all end up in the apartmentisation, construction of sports ports, tourist facilities or cheap grab for attractive land on which these squares are located today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38952	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply, Your Honor, Mrs. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, what I can definitely promise you and here in the Croatian Parliament is that this process will, above all, be refused absolutely transparently in the framework agreed on when you talk about jobs and further production and everything else that you have stated in the framework agreed with trade unions that are of course livingly interested in the completion of this job. As you know, the tenders are scheduled by the end of this month and we will do everything to repeat this process once again be absolutely and completely transparent in front of the public in the sense that the public deserves and that at the end of this job we will be satisfied and we, I mean the Government but certainly you, too, respecting the fact that you come from Split. Like all other Splitians but every citizen of all cities where there are shipyards, but what's most important is that people have a job and that people have a perspective. So I suggest we wait for the end of this process, the end of the deadline in which the competition is scheduled, and then here are the further stages to go as planned. What I have information like here's the head of the government is that, as a matter of fact, you do, because there's a lot of writing about it and saying that there are interested people, and that gives me hope that this job will end up to the satisfaction of all of us. That was the way we definitely had to decide, and what personally encouraged me was just the day Prime Minister Pahor and I agreed to meet in Ljubljana. So that was September 10th. We met on September 11th. Right after the announcements came out that we'd meet. So we sent announcements around 15.30 p.m. and somewhere after 17.00 p.m., Mrs. Commissioner Nelly Cruz, so the Commissioner for this shipbuilding business made an important statement that she was satisfied with this whole process that takes place in Croatia for the privatisation of shipbuilding. So it also gave me new strengths and confidence that we will first and foremost end this work to the satisfaction of those who work there, who want to work and to the satisfaction of their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38954	Thank you. Commentary Honored Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38955	This lady, if I'm not mistaken, Cruz may be pleased, but I'm not happy with your answer because you haven't answered my question whether you guarantee that after privatisation, basic activity will continue in these smugglings and that's shipbuilding. My doubts stem from the fact that the contests are so staged that the smugglers don't really need to buy shipbuilders. That would otherwise require bidders to tell them how much they value their smuggling and technology, documentation, brand, etc. That's not what you're looking for. This is how it turns out that the goal is not to manage national production, but to get rid of this national production. Everyone in the world is going to nationalize production, and we're going to privatise it or get rid of it. And what he would say is that the smuggling is not a waste because the shipbuilders in Croatia are doing bad ships, but because the government is mismanaging the smugglers and you have now given a pietious response production will continue but what Mrs. Prime Minister will do. So I asked you if the basic activity would continue, whether to continue the production of ships, not brocades, mattoons, shoes... whips. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38956	Thank you very much. And it is up to the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardic to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. President of the Croatian Government with members and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Minister of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mr Tomislav Ivic. Mr. Minister, you are headed by a large and successful ministry, which since the founding of six years ago, has done and is doing a great deal to protect the rights to preserve the dignity and raise the quality of life of all vulnerable groups of Croatian society, from the youngest, children and young, the family of defenders, persons with disabilities, to the elderly, in which you have worked from the very beginning with today's president of the Croatian Government. In eight days or more, on October 1st, we will mark the International Day of the Elderly, and my question concerns the resources of intergenerational solidarity and the future of the implementation of the programme in this area. I am proud to point out that since 2005 in my Slavonski Brod, in cooperation with the ministry, a programme of assistance is being implemented in the house of older people, which this year grows into a living room and help in the house of older people, and as the programme is being implemented in two other municipalities Okucani and Staro Petrovo village in Brodo-Posavina County, and for which there is a great interest and a legitimate need, my question is. Despite the general savings and next year, will the continued implementation of the programme of intergenerational solidarity help in the house of older people and living room and assistance in the house of older people in all areas of Croatia, where it is now being implemented? And will there be a spread of these, the implementation of these programs?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38958	Thank you. Answer, Minister Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As you said yourself, it's really about two very successful programs, whether it's about helping in the house, whether it's about living room. They are otherwise carried out in 75 municipalities and cities in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, or more specifically in 20 counties. These programmes take care of 14 thousand and 50 elderly people, and the programme, which is also very important and important, employs 923 people mainly from a group of people who would hardly find a job at the Employment Office. Of course, we will continue the existing programmes in 2010 because they, as we have established together, are very successful, and from the 2010 budget and when all positions are known, we will see whether they will be in other units of local self-government of such programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38960	Thank you. And we have a comment, distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38961	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your answer. I have to admit that I've been expecting him and grateful for both the users of these programs and those who have found employment in their implementation. And I will only take advantage of this opportunity and when you have already said there will be implementation in 2010, so maybe if there is an opportunity, I will ask you and recommend to the Municipality of Gornja Bobicevci who has implemented this programme so far in cooperation with the World Bank, and for next year they have equipment, they have users, help and a request to the Ministry to cover the salaries of the persons who would implement this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38962	Thank you. As 34th in line for asking questions is the esteemed representative Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Bozidar Kalmeta, and it concerns the control of maritime transport. Namely, here is the tourist season near the end, but nautical tourism lasts the longest on the Adriatic, it practically lasts until the beginning of the 11th month. The effects of nautical tourism are increasing year by year. This year, more than 6 billion kuna revenues from nautical tourism are expected. However, with the increase in nautical tourism from year to year, more and more yachts, speedboats and other vessels are arriving, which practically endangers especially the Adriatic bathers. So I'd like to ask you a question. What did the ministry do and does to protect the first row of boating buyers, but also other participants in maritime transport?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38964	Thank you. The answer, Honorable Minister Calmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38965	Mr. Representative, that this is an absolute question that is current and that will be more and more relevant from year to year, because Croatia's Adriatic, our sea, is indeed very, very, very active in the summer. I will say that only the Croatian register has about 106, 107 thousand boats and yachts, so which are owned by Croatian citizens and we issue annually about 56 thousand vignets which means, when we sum it up almost, a little less than I don't know 180 thousand vessels, it's summer somewhere at sea. That's one thing. And the other thing, the faster the ships are today, the more mobile they are, the more scooters they are, I don't know the sailing boards, etc., etc. It should be added to that, and it is indeed in summer a very active traffic which then requires both frequent and unfortunate. We've practically increased inspection surveillance this year, I say... Captains and outposts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was done, I don't know, 600 views only in one action that was called safe sailing in 2009, which was, which was practically one day in collaboration with the Ministry of Interior which also has ships and which has a monitoring function and we do both joint actions, and I don't know now exactly how many checks they've done, confiscations, etc., so that, when underlining the line, it really, I don't know, saved over 750 people, ships, boats. Unfortunately, there have also been fatal casualties, there have been wounded, but it only warns us that these actions, coordinated actions with the Ministry of Interior, with the Ministry of Defence, or with the Coast Guard, must be stronger and better, because this programme that I said at the beginning will be getting bigger because from year to year there will be more ships and boats and faster ships and boats on the Adriatic. We will make a special plan and strategy for the next year as well, as well, to protect primarily swimmers and bathers, because most of the violations were precisely from those speedboats or scooters that threatened the bathers themselves, which resulted in tragically that there have been fatalities. Anyway, we recognize the problem, we know the problem, we capacitate ourselves, and next year we'll be even more present and active than this year on the ground, and this year, I said at the beginning, we had 100% more inspection controls and findings than the years before.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38966	Thank you. Commentary, distinguished representative Vedran Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38967	Well, I'm happy with the answer. It is known that your ministry provides support for the construction of a nautical fleet, especially domestically. However, it would be good if the ministry could provide support for the ship's own control systems. I think it exists and that domestic science can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38968	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Vice President, fellow MPs. My question, of course, goes to our prime minister. It's been 14 years straight since the end of the war. 14 years after the war, we haven't opened the list yet, we don't know the exact defense list. 14 years after the war, the defenders still nothing like mushrooms after the rain. 14 years after the war and the entry of the Croatian Army into NATO today some have become, I don't know, or they would like to achieve the status of defenders. My question is, Madam Prime Minister, do you have any intention, will you, if you have when and how do you plan to take down the Defence Registry in a way that it is arranged within, within its unit-based system, by war troops, dozens, platoon, company, battle brigades, not in this alphabetical order to see exactly when and where the people were and what units? The second thing, do you mean to do the defense team categorization because today we've reached the incredible 500 thousand defenders in a way, I suggest for example one that we have first group defenders, so the people who were chasing the bunkers, who were fighting, who were wounded, who were killed, they were disappearing, so the people who were fighting directly on the front line of the battlefield. And for example, second group defenders, people who haven't been through what those first group people who've been to the offices and simply, that's a big difference. So those in the first group have all the rights, the disability, the right to PTSD, the right to retire as a consequence of the war, the stakes,... points, of course, because they fought for the Croatian state and died. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these others have the right to honor because, in one way, they participated in the Homeland War, but they could not possibly have had the right to retire as a result of the war, to PTSD because people simply didn't fight anywhere. Here, that's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38970	Thank you. Answer, Prime Minister, Your Honor, Mrs. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, your question is essentially about the register, is it? So, you asked when I'd fix the register? I must inform you that the register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War has been arranged, so the register is a list of Croatian defenders, but all of this information you're talking about is in the register. So the unit and everything else regarding the war route of Croatian defenders, but also their status today in terms of whether Croatian military disableds are or not. So it's a register, I assure you, arranged. The fact is, I agree here, that we've only started working on my arrival at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, so it's also made one of the final real frameworks in 2005 and it seemed real to me, and here I agree with you and with everyone who's been talking about it, that it was amazing that there was so many years after the war, if we're counting since '95, '96. because it is also accounted for in '96, but should also be accounted for in '98, means when Vukovar, or the part that was occupied, was returned and which was supervised by the Peace Corps, was returned to the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Croatia. So that's when we started working on those jobs. The second thing is that the register is not publicly published and that's the question I've given many answers to. According to the Agency for Personal Data, the register cannot be published for many reasons, and these reasons, including in Croatian laws, will not be published until the register can be published. So it's personal data. I got an interpretation right from that agency that even publishing without all the other data, only names and last names could not be published without the personal permission of every person in that list. However, you may be referring to other problems we face. I invite you, here in cooperation with Croatian Defence Minister Mr. Ivic and as chairman of the board to join in a debate that we will open for, and today acquire the possibility of disability, but also the fact that for some reasons there is a possibility, you know best, that even today some people get the status of Croatian defender. I think this is 2009, so we should finish this story and do everything we can to get support from the state and the state budget. First of all, I think of Croatian wartime military people with disabilities, and for everyone else to continue to develop our employment programmes strongly. It means that Croatian defenders who can, who want it, mean requalification, employment because I repeat, and with this I will end up, Croatian defenders absolutely deserve the support of every government and every Croatian Parliament because without them there would be no free Croatia, neither would Croatia today be a NATO member nor would be on the way to the final negotiations for entry into the European Union, and we must value it and appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38972	Thank you. Commentary, esteemed representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38973	I'm not sure you understand me properly. So, the Defense Registry is like this, but I want to get inside if there's a possibility, and there's a possibility because you have absolute power, you're the boss, that he's built in such a war brigade, that you put people where they belong. Now it's not, it's now in alphabetical order from A to the last letter in the alphabet, it's so not very well done for me. You haven't responded to my counsel's categorization. It's very important to me, more important than this first. To separate those people who have fought from those people who are not, that these people who are now getting all the rights, these people who aren't that they don't have those rights. We can save a lot today. In this serious economic situation, we can save a lot in such a way. If you do, I assure you you will be a hero to all of us first defenders, if you do not, I will consider you to support this state and I will express myself with a military dictionary and you will be commandingly responsible for the inaction of certain things.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38974	Thank you. A respected representative for the issue, Nevenka Majdenic, is on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38975	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mrs. President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Minister of Health and Social Care Mr. Darka Milinovic. Dear Mr. Minister, we are witnessing and we have information and some have personally testified that health insurance rights have increased and this is certainly a financial burden on the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. For example, the list of medicinal products of the Health Insurance Institute has been significantly extended to new and expensive medicines. The law on maternity and parental support significantly extends the scope of the right, both the system and the way in which maternity and parental support is used, maternity leave, parental leave, increased father's rights, the use of the same leave multiple times during the period of up to 8 years of child's life, the extension of leave used with half the working time from the previous, delimentated maternity benefits, all citizens from the area of special care are entitled to compensation for the costs of transport for the use of health services and for other citizens the right to receive compensation has been increased as citizens have received compensation for a distance of more than 50km and now more than 30km. The birth benefits have been delimated. Is it worth it, Mr. Minister, given my question: Is it accurate information that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is doing a positive job for the first time in history?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38976	Thank you. Minister Darko Milinovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38977	Well, I'd say you're the one who answered everything in your question. I have indeed said a week of one occasion that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is doing positive business for the first time, so it harmonised its incomes and expenditures. To some, of course, those who did not support the reform of the health system and all these extensions of rights and rationalization that we did for the first time have come to the conclusion that the health system does not create debts. So they also went to cut down the report of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance but they could not find a mistake or that the minister was misinforming or that the administrative board of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute was misinformed. Now I'm going to tell you one piece of country in the environment. Slovenia expects to create a new health debt of 2.3 billion kuna. Austria 1.2 billion euros, Germany 10.14 billion euros. Once again, I will proudly stress my thanks to all those who have supported the reform of the health system that gives results for the first time in its history, and we did not expect any support from the political or opposition, but we have received the support of the world health organization, the world bank and the European Commission for the reform of the health system. So the truth is for the first time a six-month report on HZZO's business is a positive zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38978	Thank you. Commentary on the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38979	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I thank you on behalf of all users, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, healthcare users and I sincerely believe that this positive trend will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38980	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative of the Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38981	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer the question to the Minister of Health and Social Care Mr. Darka Milinovic. Dear Ministers, we know how much KBC Rijeka means to Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County and beyond. This is how residents from all over the region are treated, including people from like, the island. KBC Rijeka is a central health institution in the part of Croatia from which I come, so the construction of KBC Rijeka at one location will significantly improve hospital conditions for all patients, has great meaning for the health status of our residents and will significantly improve the conditions for scientific and professional work. In addition, the investment launched by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is one of the largest investments in Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County. In view of the above, my question is what stage it is and how the project of building KBC Rijeka is taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38982	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38983	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Some thought that we would not be, when we announced this great project then they said they were just announcing it, of which nothing, so those who thought that we would not be invited all of us in the Primorje-Goran County and beyond that I hope within a month to complete the first phase of the construction of the new Clinical Hospital Center of Rijeka which is extremely important for the health system, not only what you listed around the county but the Republic of Croatia, we end this first phase, we open up a new haemodialysis where standards will say it very openly not European but globally. This first-stage project is at the level of 45 million kuna, the equipment that invests in it is about 5 million kuna, we do not stop at it, we go to the second phase where we have secured the main implementation project despite this 25 million kuna crisis. And last year and last year, we spent 21 million kunas in rehab. That's not all. These days we have opened a tender for new equipment and the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Centre will receive a new Linear accelerator, an anesthesiological device, radiology, brahitherapy, three ultrasounds all worth around 70 million kuna. So I invite you and everyone in Rijeka to open that first phase in a month to move to phase two, and some thought we wouldn't be there, but here we are in a month with you down in the river.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38984	Thank you. Mrs. Buterin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38985	Thank you, Your Honor, I am pleased with your response, and I must say that this information that you have now presented is not only me, but I believe the entire population of Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County and beyond. However, I would also take another chance here and point out that actually with the University campus along the Rijeka bypass, 3. May, Viktor Lenac Rijeka Gateway project, highway Rijeka-Zagreb, this is another very important proof of how much this government invests in Rijeka and the entire Primorje-Gorski County.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38986	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38987	Mr. President, distinguished members of the government. I have a question for Mr. Defence Minister, Mr. Branko Vukelic. This summer we witnessed an extremely successful air fire force arrangement. Can you tell me what kind of status the Air Technical Service currently has, given its role in supporting the implementation of the fire protection mission?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38988	Mr. Minister Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38989	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative, first of all, the truth is that our Air Force fires have done an extremely good job, and I want to congratulate them from this place on the successful performance of our tasks, our pilots, but also on people who maintain aircraft, aircraft, helicopters, this is an extremely important segment when it comes to the operation of our air force in the fire department. What is particularly important to say, Croatia today has an extremely strong Air Force. We've got 11 planes, 5 canaders, 6 air tractors, the rest of them are helicopters, so about 20 aircraft are in fire-extinguishing function during the fire season. In order for this system to function as necessary, it is important to maintain clearly these resources in quality and good and the Air Technical Service that has been in the Armed Forces has carried out that task. What has been foreseen by the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces is the separation of the institution from the Armed Forces to an independent company and the process is under way. The new company, the government made a decision, will be called the Air Technical Centre. He will continue all these important tasks and services for the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, but it is also a wish that the company can perform freely and independently on the market. We have a really great opportunity for such a single centre, as the only centre in the wider region of this area, to provide these services for other companies, companies and privates, we know that today in Croatia there are many private, small aircraft to be maintained, and the desire is to create this centre I would say better conditions for the work of my employees, that in revenue you also secure incomes that are not only from the Ministry of Defence or other ministries and bodies of the state administration. And with these decisions made by the Government, the Assembly has held its session, the Supervisory Board has held its session, we are now in that final phase that in the next 60 to 90 days this company is prepared to start working on its own and operating on the market, and I believe that very soon this company will be desirable for hiring new personnel because these personnel are now too small, but also that it will carry out its very successful tasks in maintaining these aircraft, which has the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Armed Forces, which has the Ministry of Interior and other bodies of the state administration, but also that on the market I would say I would find myself in my niches and here I want to say here in front of the signature, and it is very certain that one contract will be signed with the Canadian bomber. Therefore, the possibility that such transactions should be extra chargeable in some way and this financial part that belongs to our ministry and other ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38990	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38991	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your response, and I think all residents of Dalmatia, especially my Sibenik-Knin County where this summer was visible in the mass of interventions where air tractors participated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38992	Thank you. And Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek will ask the last question.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38993	Mr. President, I would like to ask the State Secretary of the Justice Department, since the minister has left. Namely, we all know, it's in our memory June 25, '91. the year when the Croatian Parliament declared the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia. A few hours after that, the Serb paramilitary force, so-called The Marticians attacked a police station in Glina, just as a reaction to this significant event. In an attack on a police station in Clay in '91. There were dead, wounded and 15 captured officers, including myself, who were taken from Gline to the Serbian camp in Knin, so on the area directly commanded by Dragan Vasiljkovic or then known as "Captain Dragan". I was among the few, i.e. I was fortunate to have survived the meeting with Vasiljkovic and his executioners and therefore was happy when the Republic of Croatia requested his extradition from Australia. But I was also as disappointed as all Croatian defenders, and I believe the entire Croatian public when the Australian court made a decision on non-delivery, so please answer my next question. What the Ministry of Justice took after the decision of the Australian Federal Court of South Wales, which adopted Vasiljkovic's appeal... decisions on the extradition of the Republic of Croatia? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What has the Australian Prosecutor's Office done, and what is the situation now in connection with the legal extradition procedure for Croatia Dragan Vasiljkovic or more commonly known as "Captain Dragana"?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38994	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38995	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, everyone is well-known, unfortunately, the character and work of Dragan Vasiljković in the Republic of Croatia in the years you mentioned, and unfortunately here we see that you have also had direct knowledge of his misdeeds. The Republic of Croatia is leading a difficult one I would say one difficult procedure for the extradition of Dragan Vasiljkovic and only briefly to repeat what we have done. At the request of the Republic of Croatia for the extradition of Dragan Vasiljkovic, the Australian court in 2006, I say, was arrested by Dragan Vasiljkovic and a decision was made by the first-degree court in Sydney, a decision was taken to make our request. That decision, under the Law on Extradition, which has been in force in Australia since 1988, has naturally been subject to certain possibilities for investment in legal medicines, as is the case in our legal system. The first legal medicinal products may be made subject to review of that decision. The request for review of that extradition decision was made in the first instance, however, the competent court of Australia rejected such a request and de facto confirmed the extradition. But there is also the possibility of a complaint against that second-degree decision. Dragan Vasiljkovic filed a complaint with his MPs about the decision. And that appeal is unfortunately accepted with that argument that is well known in the public so that in our system he may be punished or detained for his nationality or political opinion. What is now left for us as the Republic of Croatia is to appeal to the Supreme Court of Australia. That's exactly what we did. Unfortunately, we are not a party, and we cannot go directly to the judicial authorities of Australia. In these proceedings, we are represented by the State's Attorney's Office of Australia. And that's the state's attorney's office in Australia that we're equipmenting and bringing them documents, giving them facts on the basis of which they're filing these legal medicines. As soon as this last decision was made, we formed within the Ministry of Justice an inter-resor working group that had spotlessly delivered all the evidence and all the facts of the complaint to the Supreme Court of Australia. The appeal has been filed and we are actually in a legal position now to wait for what decision the Supreme Court will make in Australia. But like I said, the procedure is being conducted in Australia. Their citizens, as well as the judicial bodies of the character and works of Dragan Vasiljkovic are not known as us. And that's the plan we're working on. I mean, yesterday, our Minister Ivan Shimonovic had a performance on Australian television where he talked about everything that's happened in those years. And of course we will take all the measures that are further needed in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38996	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38997	Thank you. I am pleased that the Republic of Croatia has done everything in its power to have Vasiljkovic extradited. But I would personally like to testify to the one from '91. watching Vasiljkovic in the eyes. That would be my favorite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u38998	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, the current morning, or afternoon, is over. Stanka will be by 4:00 p.m. when we continue with the agenda Proposal for a Law amending the "Ivan Filipović Award", P.Z. Number 409 and it's in this agenda as the first point, so we'll see how far we'll go. Here, I wish everyone a pleasant holiday and a short vacation. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session and move on to agenda number one. Proposal for a Law amending the "Ivan Filipović Award", first reading, P.Z. No. 409. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading apply to the adoption of this Act. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the sessions. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Mr Drazen Vekić Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39000	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. I will be very brief, namely, about the Law which ratified this esteemed body in 91st year, and then it was intended to award one prize for life's work and up to 17 annual awards. This was allocated to the most significant achievements, especially educational workers, scientists and experts, if their results were achieved and particularly in the group, joint work. It has been shown in recent years that we have a lot of proposals for the Lifetime Work Awards and the conclusion of the "Ivan Filipović" Award Committee is to propose to increase the number of these Lifetime Work Awards from one to two, and then this number 17, which was scheduled until 17 to limit to 15. Here, it is actually a taste of the main change, a proposal to amend the "Ivan Filipović" award with fewer changes that occurred from 91 to today, but this is crucial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39001	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39002	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are talking almost in front of an empty Assembly about a prize of people who absolutely deserve to be paid full attention and to admit that what they do in pedagogical work is really something that we all here particularly appreciate. The Croatian People's Party will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law but we considered it necessary to add a few more words here for reasons because we believe that some things really need to be approached more systematically in our country. Namely, when it comes to numerous awards and recognitions, which colleagues and colleagues know how to share and who to share them all, from the city, from the municipality, from the ministry, the president of the Republic, the University, the universities, the foundations, the agencies, I don't know how to list all the possible bodies that share the awards. Most often if you read these competitions carefully then you will see that there is almost no systematicity in this business. Often rewards are shared without clear criteria, often not clearly marked areas for which these awards are shared, and inflation rewards lead to exactly the opposite effect, the devaluation of professions and sciences and those who receive these awards. That should certainly be avoided and that's why I say here and I want to say a few words more. If you look at colleagues and colleagues now in force the Law is very short and I hope that you have had time to pass it, then I think that this text should have been even more detailed to make it more precise, see Article 3 where it stands “The annual prize is awarded for the most significant achievements over the past years”. Which is the most important thing you understand. I know that later in Article 7 it will appear that the Minister of Education, Culture and Sports will adopt a regulation that will specify in more detail the criteria and way of proposing for the award. I would therefore ask the Honorable Secretary here to say to the honourable assembly what are the current criteria so far, which the ministers have used in the last few terms so far to receive these awards from individual employees in the education system. I think it's good for the Parliament to know what the criteria are without always relying on some rules that someone will make and, by some criteria, we're slightly inaccessible to share such rewards. What we have further analyzed on our club is the work of the Committee for the Award and the committees that this committee is forming. These are four committees for preschool boards, primary school, high school and higher education. Now I have to say that it's very difficult to compare these specific areas, and it might be more correct for one life reward to be shared by one, the other, the third and the fourth areas. That's my deep conviction. I'm a scientist, is it more important that I was a mentor of three doctoral work in the last year, and a few student papers that went well at some world conventions or something that someone achieved in high school, primary school, preschool education? It's very difficult to compare, I even think that what I've listed for myself now as one of the possibilities is my regular obligation. It's my regular job, whether or not I deserve a special reward. I wonder. And we often get through that someone who had a lot of candidates who had previously mastered and now doctored whether it was that, so I asked the secretary of state to see what these criteria were and try to be much more systematic in the future and to help us as Parliamentarians to develop a system that would make sense. I'll even be so open, and I'll say that seven, eight years ago, we did one Ph.D. analysis, I'm not going to say which area or areas, but in our opinion, 70% of these PhDs weren't Ph.D.s, they were typical professional papers, no contribution to science. And you get a reward for that. Or do I ask you, we are calling here on the profession and science in this law, is it a success if one doctor introduces an operation in 2009 that has been done in another country for 25 years just because he was the first in that clinical center to introduce this procedure? And that's the question of whether, and often you'll see colleagues and colleagues, we get awards for such procedures. I'm very open about it. Absolutely. That should start talking about where our systemicity is. So, we at the HNS Club suggest that we should certainly avoid drowning criteria for the award of certain types, inflation of the prize that devolves the profession, and try to make a clear contribution to making the education system truly better, to make the award more stimulating, to those scientific and professional ones who really deserve that reward and get it. And finally, what we often drop and don't talk about it, education has ultimately... The finals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is certainly an improvement in the Croatian economy, production, exports, standards. I'm saying, that's why I said a moment ago, that life reward might be a solution here for every area. Because he will give a teacher who teaches a class in high school and they teach students to some new technology he adopted, which he believes is the best, that technology only when these young people leave school, when they get hired, when the use of that knowledge comes after 10, 15 years, will express that he has essentially made a significant contribution to the educational system of the Republic of Croatia. It is very difficult to share such rewards for something at the level of one year's work. Very difficult, believe hard, and therefore I think we should seriously consider not only this but also many other prizes how to essentially establish one system. Did, Mr. Secretary of State, ever try to put all these awards together in the ministry, make one puzzle and see where the prizes overlap, where the criteria overlap, where they should perhaps draw clearer lines? I am often very disappointed that sometimes for something truly quality our ministry gives very modest resources to an expert or researcher to develop this method. You know how modest those funds are at year level. And then it happens that someone has a friend in some city or county administration, so for a regional project that you didn't accept, you turned him down, he gets two or three times as much funding. So it's just part of this big story that tells us that we need to even the criteria at all levels and in the division of all these and similar rewards. Here, it's just a warning. We are absolutely for our educators to absolutely win these awards, they deserve it, but we believe that we must always give them to those who have really contributed to the education system, and then clearly and to the development of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39003	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39004	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club have discussed the bill on amendments to the "Ivan Filipović" award and we fully support the submitted proposal. The "Ivan Filipović" Prize for Life's work and annual awards for work and results in pre-school education, primary, secondary education, higher education and scientific and professional work bears Filipović's name, a teacher who was born in 1823 in Velika Kopanica, today Brodo-Posavina County, and died in 1895 in Zagreb. Filipovic was a school overseer, a fruitful writer, magazine editor, founder of the Croatian Pedagogical Literature Assembly in 1871 and the Association of Croatian Teacherships in 1885, a participant of three general teaching congregations. In addition, because of his outstanding teaching work, his advocates for teachers in independence and freedom and freedom of the national school, his colleagues called him the teacher’s father. His thought "to be born ten times, I would be a teacher ten times" for almost a century has given him hope, courage, and encourages all those who have chosen one of the most difficult calls in the world, but who remain faithful to him despite all the difficulties and challenges. Today we are discussing a proposal to amend the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 1991. But we go back a little bit, the "Ivan Filipovic" award was founded in 1964, so for 45 years in Croatian society, this award exists. First in the county of the Croatian Pedagogical Literature Assembly, then since '67. It is a reward awarded at the time by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. And in 1991, colleagues and colleagues, you had the opportunity to see the date when the Croatian Parliament passed this law at the time of 14 November 1991, so in the course of the war. This country of Croatia, an independent state has also taken care of individuals and of their contributions to such noble activity and noble occupation. We support the club of the Croatian Democratic Community and what the law is proposed in the first reading and what everything that is discussed here at the plenary session can be further discussed. However, we also stand at the point of view and show confidence to the members of the "Ivan Filipović" award board, which, from previous experience, has been experienced for 18 years in an independent Croatian state and a total of 45 years that this one prize that is given annually for life's work is not enough because it is obvious from year to year that the number of candidates proposed for this award is growing and, at the same time, according to the time, the number of annual awards from the existing 17 suggest that it be reduced to 15. This attitude was supported by the parent committee, the parent parliamentary committee on science, education and culture, and we at the club of the Croatian Democratic Community fully support both the proposal for this law and the position of the parent Committee on Science, Education and Culture. And here we are talking about Ivan Filipovic, the prominent pedagogogog, the Croatian pedagogogogog and the writer. So here's how short the law has only 12 articles and how the changes are not so extensive I expect the second reading and adoption of this law might be too soon, but let's say, with the World Teacher's Day marking on October 5th of this year to get the final bill into this assembly. Let me get this straight. The Croatian Democratic Community club fully supports the proposal to amend the Law on the Ivan Filipovic Prize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39005	Thank you. And the final secretary of state, Mr Drazen Vicic Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39006	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief. We absolutely agree that the rewards should be evened and their criteria strengthened. Well, that's exactly what we're doing at the Ministry. One way is to increase these from one to two prizes for life's work is the same kind of strengthening criteria, because just such rewards are much easier to valorize than those prizes, annual awards that can be used for all kinds of cases, as the distinguished representative Doric said. Otherwise I can say about science, the section of science where I am in charge that we really are constantly strengthening those criteria. We now have that rulebook to promote excellence where we have fully accepted external criteria. According to... The Committee of Ivan Filipovic, of course, should do the same, should in any case strengthen these criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a list of awards in our Joint Programmes Administration. But, of course, based on your suggestions, I'm gonna do it with my colleagues a little bit more promotional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39007	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have announced, we will now vote on the points of the agenda. First is the Proposal for a Law amending the "Ivan Filipović" award. That was the first reading, P.Z. 409. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: first, the Proposal for a Law amending the "Ivan Filipović" award is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, who's in favour of this conclusion? Since you don't, even though I announced yesterday that it would be, please raise your hands? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. Write down how much. Accepted unanimously with 87 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39010	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. It is a little ungrateful to give a report with one retrospective since we are in the ninth month of the current year, especially after a very active year in the area of consumer protection when we discussed, among other things, the Consumer Protection Act as well as the Law on Unauthorized Advertising, but here with a small time-out we submit a report for what was done in 2007, 2008. Because after all, everything we did in 2007, 2008 along with NGOs, together with the media, together with the Croatian Assembly, has led us to a step today before the closure of Chapter 28. That's good news from Brussels. By the end of the year, we certainly expect negotiations to be closed. So it's worth mentioning the things we did during the two-year period in 2007, 2008. Our activities, government activities together with the State Inspectorate as well as NGOs were aimed primarily at improving supervision and improving the administrative framework, but above all at stepping up towards education and a publicly-expanded concept of what the consumer, which is his role, how to achieve his rights, how to achieve what not only the Consumers and Consumer Protection Act, but also at other laws give the right to realise, of course, what, where he appears in the role of the consumer, in defining his role as in some way both the creation and the creation of a consumer pattern of behaviour and also the dictation of certain economic behaviours of those where the consumer enters as a consumer. So, on the other side of the merchants. In this respect, the National Consumer Protection Programme has also acted during this two-year period where we have sought, apart from the general level and to act part-time in a way that we have entered further education and awareness-raising of consumer rights in the financial services section, general public services and the municipal sector as well as in the telecommunications sector. We provided enhanced information on health services, environmental protection, tourism, trade, insurance services and banking, as well as the area of food and its safety. Of all that has been done in those two years, I would perhaps single out some of the most significant activities such as consumer protection consultants based on the previous national programme, and whose work we have continued to finance from the state budget that is linked to the central information system of consumer protection united on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, gives direct advice to citizens on direct, legal and technical advice to our consumers based in Zagreb, based in Split, Osijek and Pula. We've been working on their working and technological connections. We have also put emphasis on education with a view to the development of consumer morality, and in this segment we are grateful to the media who have recognised the importance of education in the segment of consumers themselves. We are also grateful for the show that is very happy and highly watched and that is “Source code”, as well as the show that is on Croatian Radio called “All We Are Consumers”. So, through two nevertheless public services, through two public media, through current topics on a weekly basis, we come to consumers and educate them and, of course, we provide direct advice on life problems that our citizens of course face. Consumers, as psychologists say, are already developing as a small child in collaboration with the Ministry of Science, we have created a module, a module of the National Education and Education Programme for Human Rights and Democratic Citizenship already in pre-school education, primary and secondary school, which has an emphasis on education and consumer protection rights. We also successfully closed two projects. This way I thank our foreign partners and the European Commission. Two projects, one of which was located at the Ministry of Economy, which aimed to uniformise the work of the consultant, connect them technologically through the Consumer Protection Centre, and the other worked in the State Inspectorate where the primary focus and primary objective of the project was to educate economic inspectors, how to protect and how to recognise consumer rights violations. Both projects have been successfully completed, funded by the European Commission and, of course, all the experiences we have taken from these two projects will be installed in the next cycle of construction of a new national consumer protection programme. Here are the other areas, the area of public services in which we participated in a higher consumer protection in the drafting of the Law on Electronic Communications. The need and obligations of the provider in part of health services, health service providers to highlight the price of health services and conditions of use of health services, as in health care the person is also a consumer, and 21 Commissions of the field, i.e. regional self-government for the protection of patients' rights, are established from the perspective of the Ministry of Health, as well as the protection of patients as consumers of health services. One of the important segments that were also created in 2007, i.e. in 2008 is the part where we protect the consumer as a consumer of food, so we take care of its safety, i.e. health through food consumption, and in this segment I remind you of the system of emergency alarming for food and food for animals as a model of European... , and this is the pilot project we are implementing in Croatia until the entry into the European Union via the Croatian Food Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a direct notification of all possible direct or indirect risks to the health of our citizens. We also have a series of novels and sublegal acts and we have entered into a segment that was a bit, I will not say neglected, but in any case a segment in which a single golden cut should have been made and made a little clearer system, and it is about the intervention in the traffic of real estate, the register of authorised real estate agents, licensing through the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which of course contributed to the strengthening of trust in the real estate system itself by natural or legal persons who appear as consumers in the segment when they buy real estate. In the environmental protection section, we are also proud to participate in the educational programme "friend of the environment" where the aim was not only to promote the Croatian sign of environmental protection, but also to inform about the harmfulness, i.e. the impact of products and packaging on the environment, as well as fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of new vehicles. All these activities, i.e. one retrospective in the shortest possible lines, lead us to the creation of a new programme where we will, of course, take a step further, look back at past experiences, look back at past cooperation and inter-resourcely and with NGOs, make further steps towards new technologies, new services on the market, new products, new risks that they bring with them, and, of course, strive to have equally good results in implementing the national programme of the future, as we have with this report from the Croatian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39011	Thank you very much. Do the workbody rapporteurs want to take the floor? Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, on behalf of the Committee on Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39012	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On 13 July 2009, the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2007, 2008. We discussed this report as a parent working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative informed that the Croatian legislation is fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union through adopted regulatory and strategic documents, including the Consumer Protection Act, the National Consumer Protection Programme, and the newly adopted General Product Safety Act. When we talk about the National Consumer Protection Programme, it is necessary to point out that they define the following priority areas of consumer protection. First, public services, health services, safety and quality of food, product safety, education, information, trade in financial services, insurance services and banking, environmental protection, tourism and catering. In the debate, the issue of an insufficient number of accredited laboratories and methods is highlighted with regard to health care, namely food safety, and the fact that a large number of food analyses are still being carried out abroad, leading to the effectiveness and credibility of the system. It was proposed to try to find the possibility that interested ministries... the support programme for the accreditation of laboratories, which would include, with administrative costs, co-financing of devices, equipment and staff education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee members assessed the positive proposed report and unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following conclusion: a report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2007, 2008 is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39013	Thank you. I am opening the debate and Mr Dragan Kovacevic on behalf of the HDZ Club, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39014	I will say right away at the beginning that the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this report. The report shows that a number of activities are being carried out in the area of consumer protection and that, as we heard, the Republic of Croatia has closed this chapter of the 28th negotiations as well. Therefore, we are here in the legislative section in line with the European Union regulation, but we are also not significantly lagging behind in the implementation section in relation to other European Union countries. In fact, the situation with regard to consumer protection in the European Union is very high, but we also have significant problems in the European Union. One of them is also a question of compensation and the possibility of obtaining compensation by judicial means. Here I found in an article in November 2008 that actually describes the dispute between the European Consumers' Association and the European Commission's representatives over one issue on which the association insists, which is the application of the American model of collective lawsuits. In fact, although consumers can always address the court whenever they think they are being cheated or used as consumers, they often face major barriers such as high costs and long-term complex procedures. The result is that every 5 European consumers will not launch a lawsuit for compensation for claims whose value does not exceed a thousand euros. As many as 76% of respondents within the European Union said they would be very happy to join with other consumers in their efforts to compensate for the elections by judicial means. In addition, there are only 13 of the 27 EU member states in court procedures for resolving collective claims by consumers. Therefore, the consumer protection system and the European Union have some problems, and it is certain that there will be change and improvement in this area in the future. Is this report, i.e. activities carried out over the past period from inspection supervision, institutional adjustments to legislative adjustments and activities on consumer education, enough to protect consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia? In order for that protection to be in line with consumer protection standards and safety standards in the European Union that are certainly one of the strictest in the world, it is certainly not. However, all the activities carried out have had a significant impact on the structure of this system, on improving this consumer protection system. In order to comply with the growing standards of the European Union and the markets on which we want to compete, the system needs to be continuously upgraded and improved and coordinated with technological, health and other trends. It should also be said that strengthening consumer awareness is both directly related to the competitiveness of the national economy. I will state here an example relating to the wine market in the European Union. In fact, the European Union is also exposed to very aggressive competition by countries of the European Union, and this can be said to be extremely good wines from third countries, such as Australia, such as Chile, the South African Republic and even lately China. The European Union is no longer able to protect its market clearly with high customs barriers, customs protection or other administrative measures, and the only way to actually protect this market and in some ways protect itself and domestic producers are precisely high quality standards. It should also be recognised that it is actually a struggle for consumers to be educated, so that they can recognise quality products on the market, products that are also health-safe, which are in line with the standards of environmental protection, animal welfare, etc., is actually part of the fight for the market and for the protection of domestic production because imposing high standards and, at the same time, consumer education actually reduces the competitiveness of products coming from other countries. Therefore, the fight for consumers and their protection is also a struggle for the interests of the national economy and its competitiveness in relation to other countries. In the preparation of this presentation, there is an interesting quote, which is on the website of the Consumer Association, the Croatian Consumer Association, which is actually about the history of consumer protection that is related to the globalisation of the world economy of consumer society and is considered to be the issue of consumer protection of one of the most important democratic achievements. It's supposed to be a '62 quote. The year Kennedy's speech where he addresses Congress regarding the Consumer Protection Declaration where consumers by definition include all of us. Consumers are the largest economic group affected by almost every public or private economic decision. They are the most important group whose attitudes are very often not heard and the voice of the consumer must be heard. I think that both in the Republic of Croatia and in this matter made a significant shift, that we have associations that gather a significant number of not only members but really people who are competent to discuss from different points of view, from that technological, health, legal issue. And that in some ways helps the government and this entire system to deliver more quality information to our consumers and to direct them to their rights. Consumers are now increasingly exposed to a number of dangers, problems, and consumer protection, so its level, its speed, efficiency should continue to develop systematically. One of the key things is certainly education. In fact, it is certainly also to welcome the government's efforts in this segment. I especially think that this show "Source Code" on Croatian TV, which is very picturesque and in one way accessible to consumers, regardless of the level of education or the level of information, is therefore very much present in every home and in some ways directs our citizens, or consumers. How important education is also the fact that it is 19. 11. In 2007, a survey was conducted amongst the citizens of a thousand respondents over 15 years of age and it is interesting that the Consumer Protection Act was just passed that year, but 58% of citizens said that they did not know whether there was a special Consumer Protection Act, so it was that year when it was adopted. 15% claimed there was no law, and less than one third knew there was a special law. Thus, such indicators suggest that there is still much space in the field of education and information above all. Perhaps one segment that is very interesting, and we had a chance last year and, therefore, on the international market or generally encounters certain doubts about food safety, so they mentioned artificial fear as food supplements, then melamine in milk, the China area, coumarin which is also a hallucinogenic component, so the substance that is otherwise found in some products, but which at higher concentrations than those allowed means can cause problems especially in children. And also a few years ago, we had a problem with genetically modified organisms, where they had to be removed whole corn fields. Why am I saying this? In fact, what we mentioned in the conclusion of the Committee on Economy, one of the biggest problems with us in the system is the lack of sufficient number of accredited laboratories. So, laboratories that have accreditation and laboratories and individual methods of analysis. And which is why we have significant problems, when, for example, for GMOs, we don't have any accredited labs and all the analyses we'd like to prove and do expertise and analysis to be recognized in court must be done abroad. We also had a case a couple of years ago with wine-ramping, where we couldn't trust it with our own labs, they weren't accredited. In a court of law, such analyses would fall and therefore have to be done in Italy, and not rarely are examples of working in Austria and other countries that have such laboratories. Therefore, for the credibility of this consumer protection system, especially in the section of food health and food safety, it is necessary to have accredited laboratories. Today in Croatia there are 17, there are a slightly larger number of methods accredited, but clearly that is not enough. And that's why we stand for one system, one support program. So far, these supports exist from the level, I think two ministries, where in some ways aid is given, support for the documentation preparation of the entire accreditation work. However, we believe that this support should also be extended to the purchase of devices and equipment, but also to the education of personnel working in these laboratories. Because it is certain that the analysis of genetically modified organisms or these harmful things is not a question of a laboratory or its profits, but of simple and public interest and state interest. It is certain that there will be new harmonisations in the future, that there will be significant changes in this segment, probably also legal ones, because consumer dangers are changing as technology progresses, as market liberalisation progresses, but also on the other hand, the development of science, especially in the area of health protection, means new knowledge of the risks to human health and life. And that is why it should be expected that this system will have one dynamic and will be constantly upgraded. In conclusion, this system needs to be invested, because let's just take the issue of this health level of food, which means for one national economy, for one economy, a large number of illnesses, or diseases that lead to it. It means how much they're losses for the whole system. Therefore, interest is not only healthy but very economic and economic. In view of all of the above, the HDZ Club will support a report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2007-2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39015	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39016	I think you will be pleased to accept my correction of the incorrect quote, because a laboratory in the Republic of Croatia is still successfully accredited for the analysis of GMO food and it is the Health Protection Office "Andrija Stampar". And anyway, they're already going into surveillance because it's been a year since accreditation. Also related to the wider context of the number of accredited laboratories dealing with food quality testing and food processes is where and where larger than this number that you are because of the pesticides, heavy metals. So not just that narrow segment of food quality. And the total number of accredited laboratories in the Republic of Croatia is now around 150, which is a substantial sum. The method is several hundred. Because every lab at least 10, 15 or 20 methods accredit, so that's a much larger number. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39017	Thank you very much. It's HNS Club and Mrs. Danica Hursa's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39018	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honorable secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The report shows a period of two years showing the results of the work prescribed by the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2007 and 2008 which sets out the tasks and objectives of the consumer policyholder, namely: the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the National Consumer Protection Council, the State Inspectorate, and the other supervisory bodies and the Consumer Protection Association. The report shows the contribution of every consumer policy applicant in the Republic of Croatia and concludes that a legal and institutional framework has been set up, and that a consumer protection system is developed in line with the rules and standards applicable in the European Union. However, the concrete implementation of consumer protection policy, particularly in certain areas, has not been implemented evenly and significant deviations are visible despite significant budget allocations. In accordance with the 2007 report and the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, funds amounting to €994 million were allocated, and in 2008 significantly more, 3 million 681 thousand. It is also an interesting structure of spent resources. For example. In 2008, only a million 631 thousand were allocated to the work of the Consumer Protection Advisory Centre, and a million and a half thousand were allocated to the establishment of extra-judicial settlement of consumer disputes in courts of honor and centres of peace, while the rest of the 550 thousand kuna on education projects. It follows that no dedicated resources have been allocated to consumer information, their rights or at least information or at least information on places where they could seek assistance in the event they think their rights have been violated from any area of economic activity, from public services to complex banking and financial products and services. Isolated funds do not provide for propaganda campaigns, especially through electronic media, which have the highest ratings as public television, except for the said exception of the "User Code" emissions. Because the fact is that printed media is less used for a number of reasons, nor are the means for conducting a public examination that could realistically determine the level of information of our citizens on the legal provisions adopted that protect their economic interests or at least propagating places where they can obtain free information. Without that information, it is difficult to judge the budgets spent if we do not have the information directly benefiting citizens and what is their level of information on the laws we adopt. Therefore, for our citizens, it is not enough that the laws on consumer protection are in line with the European acquis, but the fact that these rights are used in everyday life and what benefits they can benefit from. It is important here to point out that this is equally important for both the business sector and the public sector, for citizens of consumers through civil society to be not only co-workers but partners and for the creators and co-ordinators of the policy issues. That is why consumer protection is in the public interest and the entire philosophy of the European Union is also based on the cooperation and partnership of the business sector, the public sector and civil society. Then, very important policyholders of consumer protection are also supervisory authorities, so-called regulators which are not in charge of resolving individual disputes between consumers and traders, but are responsible for respecting the legality in the business of market participants in their part-time liability. They are also responsible for the adoption of proposals for legal, sub-legislative acts such as decisions and regulations that can avoid many existing and future consumer-trader disputes on the market. However, their role is unfortunately evident from this report too, although regulators as the best professionals and rules of profession in a particular activity could be of invaluable benefit in preventing and preventing consumer rights violations, and for these purposes no additional budgetary resources should be allocated. Because of their supervision of respect for business legality, when consumer rights are "sequential activity", most of them do not have any knowledge of the number and structure of violations of consumer rights from their activities. Thus, they do not have relevant indicators of the real size of the problem and their interventions with sublaws, which could prevent perceived market disturbances, delay or most often do not exist. All of these, a bunch of problems on the part of consumers and traders creating so many complaints and complaints from the real need, which all of them, on the side of solving them, require the inclusion of a larger number of participants and a larger amount of budgetary resources. Perhaps as an example of the ineffectiveness of the regulators to mention regulators for banking and financial services, which are the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which are authorised to grant licences for the work of legal entities and individuals, but their activities in many businesses are intertwined to the extent that one regulator gives licenses to work, the other brings forward proposals for legal and sublegal acts or cases where one and the other are overseeing the credit and respecting legality or rather does not carry out what caused the problem. Just to remind ourselves of the problems of savings-credit cooperatives where citizens are damaged in the viritative savings facility for 100 million kuna, in the Varazdin area for 90 million kuna, not to mention in the '90s the collapse of 17 banks, and for which, in the CNB, no one was responsible for missed supervision. In the Republic of Croatia, there is one regulator for banking and financial services that would give work licenses, monitor the value and respect the legality of business, such as Germany, which is far greater and richer than ours. It is a similar situation for other regulators who do not follow the implementation of the legal provisions on the market and who do not have feedback on what should be taken through legal amendments and additions to existing laws, and which through decisions and regulations to make consumers, but also traders, have fewer needs to drive out justice and more favourable purchases of products and services that contribute to the economic growth of the country as a whole. And in the end, I'd say next. Product safety, consumer information, freedom of choice and the right to hear your or our voice are four fundamental human rights when it comes to consumption. And a sentence for the end, and I already mentioned it in my presentation, an informed consumer, as I said before, becomes the best market regulator and therefore needs to invest as much in education as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39019	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club Mr Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39020	Dear Mr. President, honored Madam Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So, we have before us a report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2007 to 2008 and it is commendable that we have such material in front of us on the parliamentary benches. Because the consumer today is a regulator for the development of a modern economy, a market economy, which is also a prerequisite for democratic relations in society. In this way, consumers directly influence business policy, promote competitiveness, create an incentive environment on the market, and therefore consumer confidence is of paramount importance. And all that would be good if this report hadn't really gone out of date in some way, because here we are, almost before the end of 2009, considering the period from 2007 to 2008. So, in early 2007, there was really no sign of the crisis, there were no earthquakes on the global market that were reflected later in Croatia, so here they culminated only about half a year ago. So, the report's out of date. Meanwhile, there was a crisis. Meanwhile, we in this House adopted at least half a dozen relevant laws that are related to this issue and have created new conditions where this report is not referred to them. In the meantime, we had opportunities to see other interesting processes such as huge crowds when buying school books that are different prices in different cities and bookstores. We also witnessed the real robberies of Croatian consumers through the payment of electricity purchased at enormous amounts by HEP. Meanwhile, there was the HEP Management Board removed, among other things and therefore, I hope. We witnessed the likely payment of additional costs in buying Podravka products that consumers themselves financed by the purchase of shares by the management sub-level, the fictitious lending of SMS. Which means “Bought Croatian!” parola in which the sale of foreign products under Croatian Egypt is being tampered with. The introduction of this report then says that Croatian legislation is almost fully in line with the acquis of the European Union through adopted regulatory and strategic documents. What does it mean to be almost completely adopted? Where's that segment that wasn't adopted? Also, is this the reason that the chapter under consideration is almost completely closed. This, therefore, does not exist in the assessment of the situation in the introduction either as it was not in the Consumer Protection Act that we recently discussed and where almost identical expression was placed in the assessment of the situation. Unfortunately, in our legislation concerning consumer protection, laws and regulations are made from the point of view of the providers of products and services and consumers may best know how painful it is for us to adopt new regulations on the road to Europe where, in the present crisis circumstances, we meet with everything and everything and on our domestic very aggressive market, where the government is indeed still almost the original accumulation of capital and probably one of the biggest booms of various discounts and outlets that simply does not exist in other transition states. We're all convinced that consumers need to be protected. But then, in addition to the legal provisions, this must also be done in strengthening awareness of the need for consumer protection, citizenship education, and then in supporting consumer and other non-governmental organisations that at least meet in some segment. Let us remember that the law that we adopted on consumer protection is a law that protects traders more so as not to have extra costs than, unfortunately, consumer protection. The competent authorities of the market surveillance authority are still overlapping. A citizen or a natural person who is damaged if no direct settlement does not occur may make up for his or her compensation only after the end of the proceedings. True God, the law also introduces the possibility of collective lawsuit by consumer protection associations. But what it's worth when associations are basically poor. The ministry, the government, has a slightly maternal relationship with them, which is most viewed in the fact that citizens' counseling is performed both by the authorities and NGOs. But such institutional support only gets some associations, and not all, so that those associations that are not co-founders of counselling centres do not receive their resources for basic work, neither from the government nor from local administrations or self-government. So, let's say we have a situation in Zagreb's consulting area which is mentioned in this report that 72 items have been received, and one item has been solved, and then a star is down there and says Zagreb's consultant has solved some of the questions in a way that has been delivered to consumers by e-mail, since this system, this central information system of consumer protection during 2008. But the fact is that of the 72 items received was solved only one, and this counseling and the association in question still receives some funds for its work. So, in light of this report, it might be a good idea to consider the roles of a consumer protection counsellor may be better thought, redefine, be more efficient, more transparent, faster, more accessible, with a better model of work, which may be if this is well thought out and achieved. The simplest thing could be to have a national consultation centre where the same stakeholders would be both the Ministry and the Association concerned according to some model that could easily be agreed on, if there is a will to agree. There is also a whole series of irrationalities, identical affairs in size and volume in all the consultations, and there is no need for that. It is also necessary to carry out continuous monitoring, supervision of these consulates, including supervision of everything required by the Labour Act between staff. It is necessary to do, decide on a model of how to establish it, whether by reputation of Western European states or transition states or perhaps to establish some of our national models, but in any case it should be consistent. Furthermore, in this report perhaps more attention should be paid to education, especially to the education of young people, because they are unfortunately unaware of the need to protect consumers and the need to protect them as consumers themselves. This can also be achieved through the work of other civil society associations, perhaps even through a foundation for the development of civil society that we have discussed some time ago or specific programmes for young people that would encourage the relevant ministry or the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Perhaps even think through the Ministry of Education and Sports to introduce consumer protection into school programmes, through certain girls or objects, which has so far been determined through various projects that have not been directly related to the education system. So let's conclude. It's good to discuss these things, but it really should be more up-to-date or have a shorter reporting period, because this kind of debate is kind of groundless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39021	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39022	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State and Associates. With more careful reading of this report, I have concluded that we have so many organisational forms and regulations that our consumers in Croatia should be really great. I think we even have a very good consumer protection law, the National Consumer Protection Programme, the National Consumer Protection Council. I immediately offer myself to any representative who tells me who is president of the National Consumer Protection Council, I pay for lunch, but not here in the Parliament. Consumer Protection Department at the Ministry of Economy, centralised information system for consumer protection, counselling in Zagreb, Osijek, Pula and Split, 26 associations for consumer protection and two alliances. It does not matter how much they cost the state and taxpayers, but what they did for the benefit of the consumer. Through the central information system, 215 items have been recorded in a year. One week, the consumer code of Croatian television emissions solves 216 items. In a week. There's something wrong with the system. There's too many councils, there's too many departments, there's too little counseling, there's too little association, and there's too little... I repeat for the hundredth time, when we started so many agencies in Croatia, I tried to count them down, I counted 28 of them to stop counting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat the proposal on the establishment of a Consumer Protection Agency which will be independent, which will be in one place in Zagreb, which will work 24 hours 365 days a year and via telephone and electronic media available to every citizen and every tourist in Croatia in at least Croatian and in 2 world languages. Consumer education will result in the fact, and probably the State Secretary will agree that consumers are the best inspectors when they know their rights, because they are the most, they are on the market every day and they fight for their interests if they know what their rights are. If in our boxes, doors, on the stairs under the carpets, under the window, the only thing I haven't found under the double bed was a commercial center, there were only 10% of the flyers who would educate people what and where you have to go if you buy a broken yogurt, and what you can know only at home when you open it, and that after the consumer's application, not only will we say that it has the right to go back to replace it, but within half an hour of the inspection service is in that shop, the shopping center or that manufacturer whose rotten yogurt is still on sale, then the merchants would take these efforts more seriously both of you in the ministry and this committee and the National Council, and I otherwise understood the law. So, I'm not in favour of new inspectors and inspection services, but we put consumers in office to be inspectors. Mostly for yourself and for your own account, but also for the state in civil protection against these rights. And in order for consumers to become inspectors, they must indeed receive instructions, and in this area they have received the least advice so far. And if there were no consumer code on Croatian television, there would be no show, no media, no public word that deals with the rights of 4 million and 500 thousand citizens of this country. We have emissions paid on the burden of the state budget for groups that count thousands of people, 2,000, 5,000, and that's good, for all kinds of minorities, I don't mean to just say that on national terms, but for the protection of the consumers of the state, this is how money was given to associations. I propose to suspend the financing of consumer protection associations and their alliances, because I fear or believe that the interruption of their funding would be a major contribution to anti-corruption efforts in Croatia. That's a hell of a contribution. There's too many of them. Too little of the results and effects they have made and in order to be as mild as possible, in terms of and in order to eliminate or reduce corruption, stop funding associations. And now let them accuse me of whatever they want, let whoever answers them. I confess to the conversation and arguments only their cases that they solved and what they did. Nothing else, no emotional outbursts. None of their advances from these associations to different councils, not just your ministry, but the media and so on. When a husband suggests a wife, or a husband's wife, I don't know, someone suggested it somewhere. Independent state agency financed from the state budget, independent of traders for funding, available to all consumers and tourists in Croatia. At any moment, it gives instructions to where, but through the central system, it automatically informs the inspection service of any such application. And then this centralized information system really cost a little bit if you put it that way. When the consumer calls and asks for advice, and he asks him where, when and what, to give him an answer and advice, but at the same time sends it to the competent inspectorate in that place that belongs to him tomorrow morning to receive information that consumers have reported, then the inspectors will not say they have to walk to the sun, but they will have a list of where these things have happened and where they have to go. If you need to buy them a car. I don't know what the problem is. But let's educate the consumers, put them in the post of inspectors, and trust me, then the merchants will put it all differently. And I will repeat this and repeat it for years on every occasion and every time, if only 1%, only 1% of retail traffic per year on goods and services has been achieved by violating the Consumer Protection Act, it is exactly 8 and a half times more profits for traders than the state will collect with a crisis tax and an increased VAT that we have introduced in this and next year together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39023	Thank you. We have one replica. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39024	So, a respected colleague, Lesar, mentioned in his debate that he advocates abolishing the financing of consumer protection associations. I believe that these cases he listed and that he connected with maybe I wouldn't tell corrupt actions but more immoral ones, that such cases exist. But my experience here is as a representative who I often contact with our citizens to really the consumer protection associations justify their existence and that in many situations when citizens are in doubt that their right is in doubt, how to protect their right to call it precisely into consumer protection associations and receive concrete answers. That is why I believe that their existence is justified and that they deserve funding from the Ministry of Economy, that is, the Resolute Ministry, because it is certain that such associations also assist the ministry in their work. And I couldn't agree more with you, and I'm giving all the thanks to the consumer code show. I think it's one of the good shows that solves specific problems and that's why in the Croatian Parliament I think everyone should give them a big thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39025	Thank you. Answer Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39026	Mrs. Petir, we're different people, so we have different experiences and motives for some statements, evidence or disputation. My experiences, however, speak differently. Many of the consumers I talked to were more disappointed with associations than with the advice and information they received when they spoke to state bodies. And it would take me too far now, and it's too short to put on paper and sort out some activities, some associations in publicly called companies, how some state monopolies were at a certain point on their wallpaper and suddenly disappeared, and some never were? How is it that some telephone operators are being targeted by some associations, and some have never been or will not be? How is it that some government monopolies, for example, in energy production, co-ordinate with human change in these public systems? Therefore, I remain with my claims. I accept that you have a different experience, but unfortunately mine are different, so I'm saying a good anti-corruption move would be when we stop funding it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39027	Thank you. And another replica, Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39028	Comrade Lesar, I'd like to agree with you on a few thesis, but I'd like to point out one that may have been missed to say, which is worth saying. And this is that in the last ten years, a huge step has been made to protect consumers. But I'll agree with you that this level of protection isn't nearly enough today, that it has to go even stronger than it's ever been before. Because up until a few years ago, we didn't have any consumer protection at all. Consumers were not protected by anything. Today it is much better than it was, but it is far from how the consumer should be protected. How do you protect yourself from misinformation that happens to consumers on a daily basis? How is it protected from those who illegally advertise their products and services? Every day as soon as I leave my car behind the wiper, I find a message, "I approve the loan, call Mrs. Jasminki." So who is this Mrs. Jasminka, let's see who she is? Is the State Inspectorate doing anything? Why doesn't he react where he needs to react? How is it that when it comes out that it's free phone calls, it's getting cheaper and cheaper? So all of Croatia is being deceived by telecommunications operators. Every day we listen cheaper and each day we account more and more, and we talk less and less. These consumers are not protected at all. But it should be pointed out that a big step has been made and that HTV's "Source Code" show, unlike HTV's other shows, is an extraordinary show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39029	Thank you. Mr. Lesar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39030	I agree with my colleague, Maric, with you, that's enough... And that's good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why we're here. That's why people in the ministry exist and that's good. But trade is a living thing, and it's rapidly developing. New goods come into the market every day, new services that weren't available until yesterday. For example, in the '90s, we shouldn't have discussed the protection of mobile users. Because that's not what happened back then. But today we need to discuss that phone operators, charge phone service even when the number you call is busy, will be taken. These are those with an extra value of 060, 080 etc. So if you call that number, and he's busy they'll charge you neatly as if you've had a conversation. That's something new. And we always have to intervene again because there are new service and goods offers. And indeed, not only do you say on the car find, I said I have to check the bedroom, see if they didn't bring their advertising messages out of the window and out there. It's a personal experience. The other day, I was called the same offer. I'm telling my wife, I don't want to talk to you. I don't have time. And she tells me, and what are you yelling at me for? What am I yelling at her? She's asking me. He calls me at eight o'clock in the evening, and then the Dnevnik ends up offering me some damn pillows. She's still asking me why I'm yelling at her. That was 19 years ago, not even nine years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39031	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, this is my decryption, although no one can read it alive. But I know, I'm used to it. So there is no Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. I'm gonna ask her to be a little bit more readable next time. The third in an individual debate is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39032	Thank you very much. That would be the protection of the chairman. Isn't that right, President? To get her to write that name a little bit. Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Secretary of State. I will also join my colleague Franic's debate and these reports, although they are mandatory and necessary, do not speak too much, and sometimes I do not think they are too useful. When we look at them, we know we have to have them, but when we look at what's inside it that information doesn't say whether consumer protection in Croatia has improved in the last period, there is no comparative data. On the other hand, when you read the entire report, you see that the level in Croatia is nowhere near the level it should be. The first thing that came to my attention in the report is that we, or not us, but the previous assembly of the Parliament in 2007 reached a conclusion and a decision on the 2007 declaration of the year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia. So, education, where people should educate and develop awareness among them so that they can be best protected on the market. And then a few pages later you see how much of this we've allocated from the budget, and in 2007 to make that awareness and to educate our citizens about their rights. And we've singled out a total of 750 thousand kuna. From that to the education of 450 thousand kuna. And then when you look at the fact that we're doing something that won't have an excessive effect because simply with that money, it's not possible to capture any more complex marketing action or anything that would make our consumers aware. That this is how it is seen from the data offered by this report, and this is about the reports of the inspectorate at 472 a year, that is, through this central information system, that is, the items that were all there in 2008, we are talking about the year 2008 in which 215 items were received. This would talk about an almost ideal situation in Croatia when so few complaints and complaints are made by our consumers. Of course, the truth is not that the situation is very good but simply people are not informed. Consumer associations should also support these 26 alliance associations absolutely deserve more from the budget and greater support from the budget, so that these associations eventually become those who will fight for their interests. It's like that everywhere in the world. Consumer organisations in Germany, in America, are those many who sell services and goods on the market fear what they will say, whether they behave correctly, whether products are as they are declared, whether they violate consumer rights. It is simply not possible to do this in Croatia without greater support from the state. When we talk about counselling sites, what was planned and planned to be done, there are four counselling centres operating in the Republic of Croatia, and then when you see the number of employees and people giving advice and answers to our citizens when it comes to hearing, it means nine employees in all these consulates, it means, according to a consultant, 36 employees who responded by letter, telephone or mail to 15 thousand on average. Now, when you see that it's 36 people, 220 working days, they're on average responding to two complaints a day. So, a man sits in his office, twice his phone rings, and he says that's your right and he's done all day. Is this effective and whether it is a rational governance and resources, or whether those consultations even use the purpose that we have set and imagined? Two calls a day for a month's pay. I think it's clear to everyone, I'm not saying that these people are guilty of it there, but the fact is that there is not enough will to promote and enough budget resources to promote consumer protection in the right way. I think it means the 3 million kunas that we're spending on these consultants might be more useful to use in a marketing campaign or to be given to associations that will then protect consumers. And as much as our consumers are unprotected, I'll say from several examples. Someone mentioned, a colleague, Maric, phone service or credits at the bar, and I'll mention interest services. Our consumers, all Croatian citizens are absolutely unprotected in this area. You don't know how much interest you'll pay when you sign the loan. It's the bank's goodwill, the situation on the market, the bank's internal decision, and as far as it sets out, it's called, up to the 14% limit of what the CNB has put up as the upper limit. There's no reference rate. There's no way you can predict what you're going to do or how much you're going to pay in that period. Those all payment plans that you get as a consumer at the beginning of the realisation of the loan are worth nothing to you, because interest can change a hundred times in that period. And what consumers rightly require, which is to introduce a reference rate that can be Euribor plus a minus and then you know when you see how it moves. It is not one or the other or third bank that will determine the interest rate, but you can see what the interest rate on the current capital market is, and thus you can have an easy transparency on how much you will pay and how much the loan costs you. On the other hand, we're talking about fuel prices. Also absolutely left to the decision of those who sell it. In this case, it's already about INA, which is no longer state-owned, and now we've had one situation when the fuel price has changed without, Malta not, the state's knowledge, and we think we're going to limit it to 3.5% of the week's fuel change, that's how we're going to protect consumers. Absolutely not. On the other hand we look, here's a fellow Maric two example, I'm going to give another example, watch these famous shows of 0600 where people first offer jackpots to answer the question that this animal starts with r, has four letters, last letter a, and swims in the sea and then tell you you'll get 10 thousand kuna, so the answer is a very simple fish. But the problem is that when you call, you can't get an hour-long line and then beat 200 people at the same time an hour, a minute 3 or 6 kuna, and of course these people make a lot more than they normally could with an ad or with some normal reward game. And on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance allows for such forms of prize games. So there's no consumer protection again. And another thing that might come to someone's mind, and now it's in Italy. Following this country's 145m-euro famous jackpot, the Italian Consumers' Association sought to limit the height of the jackpot. This is something that perhaps the Croatian lottery should consider, to limit the height of the jackpot because the huge amounts that can be offered on our lottery can endanger consumers in the first place that they are not even aware of how small a profit is, and on the other hand, to invest huge funds and risk greater damage than it is possible to ever get. So the point is what I would like to say is that the funds that we have allocated so far to the Consumer Protection Association to strengthen them, because they will certainly be best able to protect our fellow citizens and fellow citizens because that is the purpose of their existence. Administrative consultants certainly haven't produced results, and we need to change this thing in a way that helps more organizations that work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39033	Thank you. Mr. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39034	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you said that only 750,000 kunas per year were invested in consumer education to be more informed about how to protect themselves. So as to see whether that amount is enough, big or small, we can talk about it. But why even talk about how to retaliate consumers, how to protect against those who can't do it. Consumers should not be deceived, consumers should not be deceived. And now we have to train them how to think of it if they do. But we have institutions, we have inspections, we have laws. Let's just stick to it better. More punishment, then we'll have more resources for what we need. But a lot is happening to us, which is really rare in other parts of the world. This is the kind of bank relationship you said to the consumers, to the clients. It's a unique relationship in the world, that one-way street in them, that variable interest rate. You don't know when to wake up with what interest rate you'll wake up with. But never lower. Just for more. Subscribe to HEP per year, subscribe a thousand, two kunas per war. It won't pay you back till next year. How do you protect this consumer? You've been waiting another year for their money. There's no way to achieve it. You call there, you have no one to talk to. How do you defend that HTV charges the payer's taxes? Well, that's nowhere in the world. I buy the product, it's like they're introducing a tax on the fridge. And let them introduce how to protect themselves for their program, but not a subscription to use as a tax on a means, on a receiver. This is what the consumer needs to protect. And also when we talk about HT when you have a connection that you paid 2,000 marks 10 or 15 years ago, then log out. For more than 3 months, you have to pay again as if you were never the owner of that connection. It's in the contract that HT becomes the owner of that connection. Give us protection from those, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39035	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39036	Thank you very much. Bianco, I join all of your appeals, and why should I give support to associations, or consumers? Because the state with its apparatus in that segment is very inefficient. Did you now, with one emotion and anger, talk about what kind of injustices are happening? Well, that's why people should be given the opportunity to defend themselves from it. That's why. So they're gonna be the ones to write to the inspector that under Jasmine's hand she left them a phone number for a loan or that I don't know the little letters in the bank written this or that. Because of the much greater interest of consumers than it is a repressive apparatus, especially an inspectorate which, to which we all call for everything and yet very little is done again. Its scope is expanding, and simply every year they have the same amount in the budget for salaries and inspectors. So it is simply impossible to do a comprehensive job unless we include the entire Croatian public, all the consumers in Croatia in this job to protect against those who want to take money, give unquality service or goods for what they have paid fairly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39037	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Otherwise, at 17.31 p.m. last time we checked in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39038	You have brought forth a few interesting and very interesting examples of how to essentially steal and how to cheat on citizens. True, few of our citizens are producers of that kind of weather. But we're all consumers. Consumer associations are also the main partner in this very social sense of the country itself, especially in times of crisis. These associations should become particularly important. That's why I don't think this amount is enough. Local communities often do not provide a minimum of space for these associations. Here's an example. In Zadar, they have neither for the phone nor for the people of enthusiasm who have been thrown out by unprecedented pressures of course by large capital and who sell this pain test to protect the citizens themselves or consumers themselves. So, to look at this problem seems to me that it's more important at this point than ever at this very social aspect. Because the state when she protected her just by segregating certain funds. So we see how much Germany per million, tens and tens of millions in a small province separates because it knows it's very cost-effective because a citizen himself will be protected. You have cited several interesting examples and colleagues Maric in terms of interest. What about fake advertising? It's something out there that's perfectly normal. Our man doesn't even realize he can be protected from that false advertising. We have special now and laws that protect citizens, but it's still only on paper. So you can see that even the fundamental settings of the Law on Mandatory Relations are not respected where the illegal charge is made. That's why there's so few who answer. I think that's something you should take care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39039	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39040	My colleague Ingrid, when I talk about advertising, I've dropped another case, for example. I watch one Saturday morning TV, and there's a lady telling people what's gonna happen to them. So you call 0800 or 0600 and she tells you what's gonna happen. And it might be nice to call a young lady or a young gentleman and ask if I'm going to fall in love, if I'm going to meet someone, etc. And then she smiles nicely for this one to tell her you'll meet someone, third month will be the key to your life. And okay. But five minutes later he calls a woman who's going into surgery, sick, whose life is at stake, and then there's that same one from some cards he throws at the table, and he's talking about whether or not the lady will go through and what her health will be like. Now, that's inadmissible. I think the state should and even take away the concession of television that gives such shows into the program to earn some money, because there's no one right in that way to get the most, I would say the most awful way to play with human destiny, take them because they're waiting in line 10, 15 minutes to hear what their health will be like, take their money, and then on the basis of the cards they'll say so or not. Okay, if someone believes that, and finds some personal acquaintance, but this is given by means of public information, giving people false hopes, and it tolerates the Telecommunications Council, and the Telecommunications Council that could sanction such televisions that allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39041	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide more likely tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will now proceed with the 3rd item of the agenda of the National Programme for Mine Action of the Republic of Croatia. Then we'll skip point four to Mr. Dragovan's application, and we'll probably move on to five. Business report from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Then we'd close the session today. Tomorrow morning, we would continue with the 1st item of the agenda of the Proposal for a Special Transport Tax Act, on receipts of independent activity and other receipts with the final proposal for a law. And probably tomorrow afternoon, about 17 hours would be a vote on the law and on the crossed agendas by then. Probably then, we wouldn't have a vote on Friday, but just a debate by about 12 o'clock if we closed the session, but Friday we wouldn't have a vote if we had it tomorrow around 5:00. I am informing you of this because it is such a request that this law be discussed and adopted as soon as possible, as well as these translated agenda points. And now I'm asking Vice President Shakespeare to proceed with the session. We move to this point of the agenda – 3. Proposal for a National Mine Action Programme of the Republic of Croatia Secondly, the report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2007 to 2008. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2007-2008 is hereby adopted. Who's for this committee proposal, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? There isn't. I find that this report has been adopted unanimously with 87 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39043	The Government has submitted this programme pursuant to Article 4. The humanitarian demining law. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the National Mine Action Programme of the Republic of Croatia from 2009 to 2019. In fact, the Republic of Croatia has already faced mine problems as one of the most serious consequences of the war events fought in these areas and has settled in a number of countries around the world polluted, mine pollution and unexploded killings. Mine pollution in the Republic of Croatia causes a whole range of economic, development, environmental and social disorders, and mainly safety problems for the population in the areas that were in the fields of war. Large agricultural areas, forest complexes, border belts, and parts of the river's coast are still unreachable today because of the minimality, or doubts about their mining. The determination to resolve the mine problem was confirmed by the adoption of the Mine Action Act 1996 and by the establishment of the Croatian Mine Action Centre in 1998 through the implementation of all obligations undertaken by the Ottawa Convention, as well as by ensuring permanent and stable elections of funding in the state budget in World Bank loans, as well as by legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. It is currently defined and the size of mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia on 31 December 2008 and is 954.5 kilometers square, affecting 12 counties, 111 cities and municipalities. In that number of cities and municipalities live 921 thousand 253 inhabitants or 20% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia. The practical problem of demining in Croatia was approached during the Homeland War, with areas of mine suspected area varying in terms of the activities that were in the Ministry of Interior and were later made by the Croatian Mine Action Centre, so that during 1996 and 1996, respectively, by March, it was estimated that some 13,000 square kilometres of mine suspected area, in 2001, the area was reduced to 4 and a half thousand square kilometers, so that, as I said on 31 December 2008, the activities of the Croatian Mine Action Centre were found to be a 954,5 square kilometers of the Republic of Croatia's mine suspected area. In the past, a number of business activities have been carried out to reduce this major problem in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to finally solve it. Since the beginning of systematic demining problems, the issue has been to define a mine suspected area. In the absence of any human resources or technical possibilities, the initial definition of the mine suspected area was mainly carried out by mathematical methods of assessment, so that the first estimates... They moved within 13,000 square miles like I said in '96. For years, it would all come down to 954 square miles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the past, practically since '92, '93. The year when the demining problem began in the Republic of Croatia, total expenditure was spent in the Republic of Croatia 2.78 billion kuna, i.e. '98. until 2008 in the last 10 years. From that amount, 1,56 billion kuna was spent from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, loans from the Republic of Croatia to the World Bank and loans were spent on demining 222.8 million kuna, legal person and body of the state administration so far allocated 529 million kuna, most during 2002, 2003, 2007 and donors from the draft CROMAC and funds of demining donations spent on 473,4 million kuna as I said in the period of '98. By 2008, 2.78 billion kuna was spent. Since the beginning of the war in '91. By 2008, a thousand 888 people were killed in mine incidents, of which 492 were fatal, and a thousand 103 people suffered serious physical injuries. Back in '98. By 2008 we recorded 289 victims in 211 incidents, with a total of 106 people killed and 120 with severe bodily injuries. And this particular data on the death toll suggests how much the mine problem in Croatia is expressed and how many tragic victims it has taken since the Homeland War to date. According to the size of the mine suspected area of the county of Ličko-Senjska, Osijek-Baranja, Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Zadar and Požeko-Slavonska fall into the mine's most polluted county. The largest participation in the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia consists of forest spaces with 557 square kilometers, or 58.4% of the total mine suspected area. Then agricultural areas of 269 square kilometers or 28.2%. Maquis and debris with 109 square miles or 11.5 percent. Houses inhabited 4.7 square kilometers or 0.5%. Infrastructure facilities with 0.2 kilometers or 2 prominions, and other areas with 12.9 square kilometers or 1.4% of the total mine suspected area. Taking into account the demining activities carried out during the past period, the mine information system of the Croatian Mine Action Centre has now registered 103 thousand 419 mines, of which 34 thousand 73 anti-arming mines and 69 thousand 346 anti-walking mines. The largest number of mines was registered in Osijek-Baranja County, 30 thousand 08, Vukovar-Srijemski 21 thousand 444, Lika-Senjska 16 thousand and Sisak-Moslavina County 9 thousand 400 mines. Almost 50% of the total number of mines was set in Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County. The demining surfaces consist of a total square, i.e. of the 954 square kilometers, for demining areas account for a total of 268 square kilometers or 28% of mine suspected area, and search areas account for a total square of 686 square kilometers or 71.9% of mine suspected space. During the past period, demining priorities were the reconstruction of houses, transport, transport and municipal infrastructure at national level, the restoration of the trafostation "Ernestinovo" and the belonging electrical transmission facilities of the construction of highways Zagreb-Dubrovnik, first and second-row channels, dikes and areas along the inhabited houses and close to the settlement. Based on an analysis of the structure of mine suspected areas according to the purpose of the area, the biggest problems for the economy are the mined agricultural land, which is oracies and forest areas. A large part of the necklaces in the mine suspected area are owned by the state, so the country's land availability programme aims to improve agricultural production and use the European Commission's programmes for agricultural production until the entry into the European Union when further development and the increase of agricultural production will depend on the quotas identified. Oranice in mine suspected areas is made up of 2.4% in the counties with mine suspected areas, i.e. 1.3% of the total area of orans in the Republic of Croatia. The second problem is the rebuilding of local infrastructure, especially the channel network of third and fourth lines... For meditation and disposal and the inability to maintain them, the conditions for clearing canals are the result of the flood of the oran. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is the most pronounced in the area along the Croatian-Hungarian border. Using the total current capacity of 586 pyrotechnicians, 57 demining machines and 48 dogs to detect mine-explosive assets and unexploded killings, and their interconnections can be demined up to 67 square kilometers per year. This annual impact would be achieved on the five-hour working day, including all working days. Also, the possibility of using demining machines is assumed to be 80% of the total surface, and based on 20% use exclusively of the hand mine detection method. The main objectives of this national programme from 2009 to 2019 are to remove the mine threat from the territory of the Republic of Croatia completely by 2019, in all phases of resolution, to maintain the marking of mine suspected spaces in order to avoid the tragic loss primarily of the population living alongside mine suspected areas, education programmes to cover the entire population living and working in the environment of mine suspected space or gravitating the same, to continue to provide care and rehabilitation including psychosocial rehabilitation and economic reintegration of all mine victims and to position fifthly and promote the Croatian anti-minor action system in the International Community. In the period from 2009 to 2019, demining operations are planned to remove mine dangers from areas intended for the economic development of the country and, above all, those areas where people live directly to avoid and prevent further victims of the population. The size of the space planned to be demined is 384 square kilometers in the same period by reducing mine suspected space is planned to reduce mine suspected area of 372 square kilometers, and the general reconnaissance plans to reduce mine suspected area of 198 square kilometers, and it is about additional research in forest areas and area of Makia and karst. In the period from 2009 to 2019, demining and demining activities carried out by demining companies and the Croatian Mine Action Centre would demining and reducing the area of 756 square kilometers. In total, 4 billion kunas should be provided for those activities. The largest activities would take place between 2012 and 2015, which would require the largest funding of around 2 billion and 60 million kuna. In order to achieve these objectives, an additional number of pyrotechnicians should be hired since 2012, as current capacities are unable to realise the planned range of jobs. In 2013 and 2014, the largest employment of pyrotechnics was planned, which is two times higher than the current number of pyrotechnicians employed by demining companies. As of 2015, the number of needed pyrotechnicians would be gradually reduced. The current number of demining machines and dogs to detect mine-explosives and unexploded killings during that period do not need to be increased on the basis of meeting the need. In the materials that you have obtained you have seen precisely the precise and defined activities per year and according to the committed funds or resources of pyrotechnicians and equipment and by financial means which would be used for years and also by sources of funds and it is evident that it is planned that most of the financial resources, as so far, are provided from the state budget. What we need to say is that from year to year, we have fewer and fewer deaths, and this is the most important thing in this business, because the primary task of this job, or the humanitarian demining process, is primarily to save people's lives, and then also by demining the release of economic resources and potentials and finally, to clean the Republic of Croatia from mine danger. In order to achieve this demining business in Croatia during this period, how this programme is planned for mine action over the next 10 years, numerous activities carried out by the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Mine Action Centre are already being undertaken this year. So we have these days and resolved I would say the agony of the state-owned demining company "Mungos", so that we have made a new state-owned company "Mungos demining" d.o.o. and almost all employees of the current company "Mungos" that has been in major financial problems have moved into the new company will be provided with the means to purchase new equipment so that this new state-owned company will have a quality, fast, efficient and above all cheaply done these jobs, in order to be correct on the demining market, so that this job, which primarily of humanitarian character, takes the scale of purely commercial business. I also said that a significant number of pyrotechnics will need to be hired earlier than this year, so in the senior years of 2013, 14th planned to engage almost twice as many pyrotechnicians as they are now engaged, that somewhere around a thousand 100 and therefore started training and schooling programmes, and retraining for new pyrotechnicians, so that it would not happen that in those years when the biggest work plans would not have happened if we didn't have enough pyrotechnicians. Mostly this mine action plan is considered feasible, we consider it realistic and I believe that all participants in this business, which are primarily the Ministry of Interior, the Croatian Mine Action Centre, "Mungos" d.o.o. and other companies, each in its own circle to ensure that this plan is provided in the necessary, planned dynamics so that the Republic of Croatia will be cleared of mines as soon as possible in order to avoid the loss of people and to put all of these still blocked economic potentials into operation and enable people to live peacefully in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39045	Thank you. Committees, Development and Reconstruction, Internal Policy and National Security, Defence? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39046	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State and Director of CROMAC. The first question about the adoption of a new national plan is what we are discussing. Why? Because this isn't '95. A year. This is the year 2009 and it might be good at first to admit to ourselves that we failed. We should be open, self-critical, no matter what governments we're talking about, why we haven't been able to realize the programme we're in '98. They believed it was feasible, that it was well made, well thought out and that it would lead to Croatia being a mine-free country in 2010. Of course, this has not happened, and today we are bringing in a new programme, the National Mine Action Programme for a new period of 10 years. Now it's been 15 years since the last war operations, or next year it will be, right? In 10 years, it'll be 25 years. It's not worth too much attention now to what's been missed and what hasn't been done, but that only makes sense if we're going to counter-cipe any problems we can expect in the years ahead of us at the same job we've been doing for 10 years. And it seems to me that, with all due respect to the present representatives of the Government, State Secretary and Director of CROMAC, this debate should be held at the highest political level, about defining Croatia's priorities, and, in this regard, clearly state what is the priority of demining, whether it is at the top of the priority, or whether it is something that can happen from time to time, as new important things arise, then put into second rank, third rank priorities, etc. It's definitely one thing. Croatia is certain, I think it can be argued if there is a need, the most developed country in the world that has a mine problem. So, a country that has absolutely the highest GDP of all the world countries, which has relative development, literacy, whatever you want, by all parameters, the most developed country that has a mine problem. Over the past 10 years, we've shown that we've developed everything that hasn't been done by any of us, as a premise for a successful business resolution of any other country in the world. We created legal infrastructure to do this job. We have good laws. These laws, strategies, sublegal acts, etc. There's no interference with doing this job. So that's not why we failed. We created one I would say institutional innovation through the formation of CROMAC which has become a kind of visual example and model of countries that have a mine problem, so that the matter can be solved. Third. We became, I would say, a Croatian model of mine action, introducing into demining operations a combined system in which these jobs are financed and the mine action is realised by a combined approach in which both the state and the private sector and the NGOs are involved, where we have a combination in the financing of the state budget, grants from the economy etc., etc. So I'd say one optimal system. At least I don't know, and I've been dealing with these issues for the last ten years, I don't know if any other country in the world has it that way complicated and settled. Next thing you know, we've got trained pyrotechnics. And not just pyrotechnics, so people who work directly in mine action, but we have created, and I would say another human or human or intellectual infrastructure that this job can do. So we can set up here and high school, we can set up institutes here. We know a lot about this problem in Croatia. Finally, we also have what few other countries in the world have, their own production of mines, mine-mining machines, machines, demining machines that have proved to be very good and that are exported around the world to countries that have this problem. We got it all, and we didn't finish the job. What's the problem? Money. Money. Stable funding and political will, above all, to solve this problem. No one was pleased to tell him it wasn't his priority. People die. 1888 people were killed by mines, 1888 people, 500 almost fatal. That's a terrible lot of people, that's a terrible problem. So I'm not talking about those people with disabilities, kids who will spend their whole life walking on crutches, artificial prosthetics, artificial legs, etc., I'm not talking about a lot of problems, if you want psychological problems for people who live together with their children, and they're in their backyard or somewhere behind a mine yard. That's a big problem. You need to see these people live. To mention that one dimension, the economic dimension. So how are we going to be a first-class tourist power if in Croatia tourists ride along the roads along which are those tapes with heads of death. And we said that tourism, not only did we say, but we really expect it to be one of the drivers, the engines of economic development. Our priority is also agriculture, hunting. How will you develop this when you have 111 municipalities and cities in Croatia of 555, so each fifth that is polluted with mines? It's funny for me to make an argument here. I think it's known how important the issue of demining is. It's very important. I would like it to be on that question where I haven't heard that we're having too much of an argument, or that there are some party interests, that it is consensually established, that a decision is made consensually to demining is the country's first-class national problem, that is, first-class problem if you want our generations. We can't leave it for generations to come, we have to deal with it. We've got to work this out. And if we agree so consensually, then we need to see how we can work it out. Finance, insurance enough money that the potential that we have and the software and hardware and machines and machines and people and dogs function to solve this problem is possible if we secure enough money. Is this about the money we couldn't afford? If it's ten years, make it ten years. Come on, we won't say it in five, we won't say it in four, let's do it in ten years. But it can't happen anymore if in ten years we say we'll have to do it in ten years. How can you get rid of that? It can be solved so, I have been making one proposal for years to establish a fixed amount from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, I proposed that it be 0.4% of the budget and that money would be more than enough to solve the mine problem in Croatia even without any high expectations of donations before and before that 10 years ago. Looking at this national strategy, the new plan, are well-assembled priorities, it's well-assembled and dynamics. It's a good thing we're predicting some kind of growth and then a slow down, because there's companies, and that's economic activity. And it's good to eliminate or reduce this mine suspected surface by surprise, and it's now entered into serious plans, because so far it's been thought that what isn't directly physically demining that this isn't a problem solved. No, today it can be handled in a quality way and reduced both through demining and through reduction and general reconnaissance and in all three ways in fact solve the mine problem. So if we secure and try to make a budget do it, we no longer have a problem. We've got institutions, we've got companies that do this job, and they're gonna do the job. Secondly, I'm surprised that the Croatian public has quite calmly received the fact that one company, a private company in which the truth of Croatia has a large share such as INA, owes Croatia 2 billion kuna. This has gone beyond that, and it is about an amount greater than what will be added to the harak and what will be achieved by an increased VAT. It's more money than that. And let's say these two billion kunas are half the projected funds for 10 years to solve the mine problem. Half of that total projected money. Maybe the state can make an arrangement to help INA. You don't have to cough up 2 billion kunas now, but here's the deal you're going to pay off so you can finance demining operations in the coming years. And another possible source of funding that I was also talking about a few years ago. Thank God the gardens are now mostly demining or were in the first order of priorities. We're left with agricultural areas, oranics. Why does a country that owns most of the land not give it to the concession and to the one who demining it pay the demining, make it useful for the next 10, 20 years. I don't know how much that would be. Let's also say that we reduce costs and speed up the overall demining process in Croatia in the years to come. So, I support the plan. I think he's good. Goals well-set, priorities well-set, realistic but without a police will which we will show and confirm the problem cannot be solved. And another question that would be good in the context of a debate on mine action. We deal in Croatia or legally regulate only the area of mine suspected space when it comes to mine action. And what about that area that isn't and isn't in those zones. Now here's what's called the Deep Capricorn and the problem of these unexploded murderous assets that can appear outside these spaces there's no legal basis actually to get into that story at least when it comes to CROMAC. I suggest that the area of demining or mine action in these areas be resolved by special law. Whether it will be the Demining Act or what it will be called now is another question, but we must not leave it outside the legal framework. Please, colleagues and colleagues, to be maximum here, I would say compatible with Croatia's needs as a country and to put all means of pressure on those who will eventually, and that is what we are likely to make decisions about ensuring this money for the demining of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39047	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39048	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the National Mine Action Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the upcoming ten-year period. When we talk about mine action, then I think at first I think we should mention people in the beginning, and above all those people who are no longer among us today, who are unfortunately victims of mine suffering. And since the beginning of the war between 1991 and 2008, in mine incidents, 1888 people have been killed and 492 people unfortunately died while 1103 people suffered serious physical injuries. I also think that when we talk about mine action, we should mention those people who are actually hostages to mines that close to their backyards kids can't play football, those people who can't go quietly to their fields because they don't know if they'll come back. And such people have over 20% in the Republic of Croatia because as many as 12 counties, 111 cities and municipalities belong to a mine suspected area in the Republic of Croatia and is 954.4 kilometers square. Of course, there's already been talk here about these counties that have been affected by mines. However, I cannot not mention one information that is worrying, which is that almost 50% of the total number of mines laid down is in Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County. And of course, we should mention those people who assure us that the territory of the Republic of Croatia is cleared from mines, and these are our pyrotechnics who should be thanked from this place as well as their families who suffer daily and wonder whether they will return home alive. Because let us also remember a recent case in Petrinja where, unfortunately, a young pyrotechnician lost his life and recently a civilian. Of course, in this entire hierarchy of people I mentioned today should also be said that people working at the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia form a large part of the operational and designing of all the projects and programmes that we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament today. With their help, of course, we ensure that the territory of the Republic of Croatia gradually becomes free from mine pollution. It is quite clear that the demining priorities were infrastructure facilities, areas where people live, the restoration of trafostations, the construction of highways, first and second-row channels, dikes, areas that are close to the settlement. It is safe and we have always warned from the HSS that it is important to include agricultural land, forest land, but also to restore local infrastructure. I especially think about third and fourth-row channels that are mined, and because of that status, it's not possible to maintain them, and then they heal, and the result is the blueing of the orans. This problem, of course, is most pronounced at the Croatian-Hungarian border. But also along those canals and parts of the coast, the river is unreachable due to mine pollution, and in fact the program is disabled, implementation of the flood protection program. It should not be particularly stressed that agricultural land is extremely important to every farmer who wants to deal with serious production, although we know that practically 12 counties are marked mine suspected counties, so more than half of it is certain to have an urgent approach to demining exactly agricultural land, to use the European Commission programmes intended for agricultural production until the entry into the European Union, aimed at increasing agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to stress that this is exactly the kind of area, because it has not been treated with pesticides and herbicides that are suitable for the development of organic food production. We at HSS support the basic objectives of the National Mine Action Programme. We believe that they are realistic, although frankly of course they would like the mine removal deadline to be much shorter and that the resources needed for this process are provided in time so that this programme can actually be implemented. In the period from 2009 to 2019, demining and demining activities carried out by demining companies and the Croatian Mine Action Centre would be reduced in space and, of course, demining in the area of 756,5 km square and for these activities it would be necessary to provide a little more than 4.1 billion kuna, which is certainly extremely large money, and in addition to the state budget of the Mine Action Centre has so far made efforts to find different donors of natural and legal persons, but there is no need to forget here the loan of the Republic of Croatia to the World Bank, which is also significant because it is worth 222 million kuna. Of course, throughout the community and various symposiums between experts and scientists are discussing the possibilities of reducing defined or estimated mine suspected areas, using clear, reliable methods aimed at reducing the cost of the whole time we talk about, as well as the state secretary and colleagues before me, but also the higher speed of solving the problem and the equally secure guarantee of land being returned to the use of what it is after demining and searching, because it seems extremely important to me to mention that when an area demining people who receive it for use, they are sure that it is really clean, i.e. it is no longer polluted by mines. I can say that the assessment of us in HSS is that this plan is indeed ambitious, but it must be because the analyses show that large forest areas, agricultural land in the depth of their surfaces where the fighting was carried out, that is, work areas for reduction based on the prescribed methods and reliability of data, and an analysis of the established expert team of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and their external associates. The Croatian Mine Action Centre in the past period, with the help of the Norwegian Government, built in the world the most modern systems and brought them into operational use such as the SKAN Centre that enabled the scanning of military cards, their geo encoding, the geo-reference with a series of valuable data for the analysis of the battlefield. Furthermore, an ortho photo in official terms provides a fully up-to-date picture of all areas with defined SMEs. The final range and help for analysis has recently introduced a 3D projection that allows a three-dimensional view of the area with layers, slopes of the terrain, also using an ortho photo that allows quality analysis of all relevant data, which... allow a decision to exclude a certain area from a mine suspect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It says that we are really highly ranked in the world when it comes to technologies, the methodology we use to detect a mine suspected area. As a result, I believe that the planned approach to selecting reduction polygons and all the above-mentioned analyses will be possible to achieve the planned areas in the national strategy, and to return areas faster and cheaper to use, which is certainly the strategic objective of both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and this Assembly. To all those who are dealing with demining affairs, I certainly want to express on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS the words of thanks, because they have done a great job so far and I believe that this demining programme will be implemented for the next ten years, after it has been supported by the Assembly and realised by this dynamic as envisaged and that hopefully here and the Republic of Croatia will soon be free from mines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39049	Thank you. HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39050	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director of CROMAC. The Croatian People's Party Club has regularly supported your reports, we have made certain suggestions, suggestions to advance your work, but today I have prayed to the HNS Club to allow me to step down from the way you've been working so far and so far. In fact, at 14 o'clock, I was present to one of our committees, we were reviewing projects and programmes financed by one trust fund, and we asked that it be increasingly strict, increasingly sought out and insisted from those who spend and receive taxpayers' money, to be very precise in order to justify every kuna they receive and spend. This is before us a demining program for the next 10 years. I hope, colleagues and colleagues, you've arrived to review that program. To page 20, out of a total of 27 pages, you have a view of the current and current state. So history. And then you have 22 pages of basic goals to achieve. Then you have 23 to 27 pages, let's call it a program. So five pages of this program are hard 4 billion and 200 million kuna. Each page weighs 800 million kuna. Every word on this paper weighs 2 to 3 million kunas. The first impression when you read that program is not in line with what we heard from my predecessors. Definitions are pretty vague. I'll read some of them. The numbers differ from the previous reports we received. And I have to say that those who wrote a program like this don't give me any confidence that this program is going to come true. The second impression, demining today in Croatia, seems to me a lucrative job, but for one, and family tragedy for others. That's not good. My colleagues and colleagues, have you noticed that in the last seven, eight years, the number of companies dealing with this business has grown from 4 to 20 and some companies. So many company leaders, so many offices, so many extra expenses for these companies, but apparently it pays someone. The amount of money that goes into the system, '98. The year, so 11 years ago, it was about 70 million a year, and then in the last 5, 6 years it was between 250 and 350 million. So, significantly more resources, four, five times more companies that deal with this business, and I'm asking you, did you maybe look at any previous reports? I was as president of the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County very much hired to help our county, our cities and municipalities, and the Italian cities with which we had ties, then the Council of Europe, their association of local democratic agencies and many others help in this process, to give funds, to try and speed up the process from international sources. And then, I remember from CROMAC we had distinguished guests who told us that in 2002, it seems to me, it can be plus minus one year, that in Croatia there are still a thousand and 700 km of square space to be mined. In this data that we have today, the figures differ significantly. In addition, if these figures are given to us then, and especially these ones here are correct, then in the last 10 years, much more space has been demined than we will demining them over the next 10 years, and we have much more resources. These are interesting numbers, very interesting numbers. I'd like to see clearly what happened to those numbers. Then, to explain to us the CROMAC itself. We don't have that here except for the fact that around CROMAC is going to spend about 50 million kuna a year, that it's going to be over a 10-year period of over half a billion kuna. So, every seven kunas will go to CROMAC. How many employees are there? What are the salaries of these people who oversee the demining process in front of the state and all of us here? A little more data on spending on the scientific research work that's being mentioned. The Scientific Council, the Center for Testing, we became a member of NATO. Are we working with them? And they have scientific committees, does NATO promise one now full member of aid in this segment? I remind you we should have gotten a series of other data. On the other hand, there are still exactly 103 thousand mines to be removed. So some things aren't shown by us the way they were supposed to be shown, and let me read a few sentences from this last part that we would call the program. "In the same period, a reduction of mine suspected space is planned to reduce mine suspected area of 370 km square." And then an explanation that's a reduction. "The reduction involves the exclusion of areas from mine suspected implementation of jobs", so it literally states, "mining and additional overall analysis of polygons in... Now, I've tried to explain things to myself a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe it's clear to the authors of the text, but for those of us who don't do this job, maybe it should have been a little clearer, more concise. Look, now I'm going to read two more definitions that we've got: "Under demining operations further in the text is the demining and searching of mine suspected space." This is demining, and then under reduction means "the exclusion of areas from mine suspected by implementation of demining operations and additional comprehensive analysis of mine suspected spaces." Sometimes it's hard to tell from each other at all. And then it's still standing next to these two basic activities that "the general reconnaissance is planning to reduce mine suspected space," it's in addition, "size 200 kilometers square", writes... I'm jumping, "It's about additional research in the forest areas and the space of scissors and debris." In fact, the general reconnaissance plan is to be reduced, as it is known that it will not be encountered by mines, that this process will not be significantly more difficult than what is envisaged here will be possible only by reconnaissance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just give us a minute, please explain the answers to some of the questions I asked, and then we can ask a few more things in individual debates, possibly asking a number of other questions. Here's another thing I'm giving up not to owe too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39051	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives and gentlemen from the government. As a surgeon, I had a regrettable opportunity to say and operate, mostly amputate people who are also children who have sustained injuries in the minefield or from mine-explosive resources in places that were not marked by mine fields. Indeed, as a doctor, I have seen terrible things and injuries that have left severe consequences and severe disability in people who have been injured by mine-explosive means. Therefore, according to this report, or according to the proposal of the national programme and also the report, it is evident that a mine-explosive asset has injured or injured a thousand 888 people, of which 500 fatalities. During the good debate, each of us who participate in it has seen some and good sides, but some and ambiguities that can be seen in the material. In the spring of this year there was another debate about this topic, I do not remember the exact name, but I do know that I was at the time discussing that the European Union and the European Commission had opened a tender for obtaining grants for demining in Europe. And then I said, and I was notified by the Regional Development Agency of Slavonia and Baranja, that Croatia had not submitted to the competition, which was then called by the European Commission. Regional Development Agency Slavonia and Baranja reported, which resulted in certain funds. Two days ago, I was in a meeting. I met with one of the owners of a private company that works in mine action. And you know what his biggest problem is with demining? Find a doctor with a professional exam, so it's prescribed to go to demining. They struggle, every firm, to find a doctor who would go, although it is a harmless job for doctors, although they are completely safe and it is a relatively well-paid job to be a doctor with a team going to demining. But unfortunately, I say the trouble is they're trying to get a doctor, whether he's retired, so he's got some free time or some young doctor who hasn't done his job yet, working on a certain or undefined job at some medical facility. Both are actually slightly inadequate. But, my God, it's a regulation to be a doctor with a professional or a state-of-the-art exam. In that conversation with the gentleman in question, he complained a little bit about the low demining price of the square meter, and asked what would happen to his employees when God gave this demining programme to take place by 2019? What about the people who are pyrotechnics? Where with them, what with them? Here are some questions from real life, real life, and people who work on that job. Yes it is true that here as HDSSB and in our programmes, although it is not the time for politics and politics is a priority, especially as we come from Slavonia and Baranja demining the surface. One of the first priorities with irrigation and another. Namely, these materials indicate that of the 12 counties that are polluted with mines, almost all elements and orans and in the forest area, Slavonia and Slavonian County, 5 of them, Brod-Posavina, Osijek-Srijemska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Požeško-Slavonska and Virovitičko-Podravska, when the total sum of these areas polluted with mines, they actually carry a third of the entire mine-polluted space, a third. The Slavonian counties total up to 20% of the surface or one-fifth of the surface of the Republic of Croatia. This says that the ornaments and forests, which are both the main wealth and the main activity that is being carried out there, so agriculture, hunting, wood production, are precisely these activities well threatened or reduced precisely because of the presence of mine-explosive resources on the surfaces of these 5 Slavonian counties. I've calculated something from the government and here in your statistics it says that a total of 310 square miles has been demined so far. If we were to go with this dynamic, then for 960 km of square areas of the Republic of Croatia, which is 2% of the total territory of the Republic of Croatia. 2%, because Croatia is 56,000 square miles, it took 36 years with this dynamic as it has so far. That's why I'm kind of, I'm not going to say happy, but I'm happy, if we could have this projection that you've made here, to clear the Republic of Croatia of Mines by 2019, I'd really be overjoyed. Since the pace he's been going so far hasn't been good, and that pace, so at that rate, if we continue, they'll be demining by 2045 not before. If this is 2019 it's really a reduction, the reduction I don't mean that mine space of yours, but a time reduction that would be great and perfect if it were done that way. And to do this, in order to keep the country safe from mines in 2019, so completely safe from the possibility of further harming and hurting mines, those elements that my colleague seems to be telling me here are therefore stable funding. In fact, financing demining is also financing into a future economy because demining has a real economic dimension. Someone here talked about tourism and that in any case news and news that the Croatian state has 2% undefined territory in some people creates a certain animosity towards coming to our country as a tourist. However, I also talked about this second dimension, not only touristic, but also agricultural, but also hunting, but also forest. Furthermore, it was brought here and the Law on Golf Courses. From these surfaces, I haven't found exactly how much of the area is owned by the state, and how much in private hands, and we've passed the Law on Golf Courses. So here's a little proposal, a digression, whether there are interested foreign investors and investors that certain areas that may be interesting in relief and other golf courses, are then made by the investor as well as demining as part of a golf course investment, and we know that golf courses are at least 70 hectares per legal framework. I am and we are all witnessing donor conferences held for Rwanda, Burundi, Congo, Brazaville or I don't know what they're already called... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have not long remembered that there was a donor conference in Croatia with a certain breakfast or, as it is said, the party is so, thank you, Mr. Vice President, that perhaps in this small and glamorous and celibacy we would also make some donations to the Republic of Croatia. Well, I guess not everyone has given up such beautiful lands and all those who come here and talk and see the beauty of our country, that nobody wants to help. I think there is also a good organisation to do this, a new donor conference for the demining of the Republic of Croatia. It's just an idea to think. We see that, in the financing of demining, most of the Republic of Croatia has singled out 2.8 billion kuna from its budgets, that we have borrowed loans from the World Bank and other institutions 202 million kuna, the legal person 500 million kuna, and this assistance is mainly foreign legal or physical persons of only 470 million kuna. Now, when we look at how much we need to implement this programme, let's do this projection if we can read these last items, so these names of the legal person, in order to achieve more money, get more money, get someone to sponsor and donate to us, so in this second segment because we know in this situation the recession, the global global crisis that the budget of the Republic of Croatia is very thin and that it's hard to isolate these funds from the budget. That's why I talked about these donor conferences. Data on the fact that 111 municipalities and cities are affected either in mine suspected areas with 980 thousand inhabitants, I would say that this kind of coincides with the number of kilometers, so 970,000 inhabitants, 960km square Republic of Croatia. So thousands per kilometer of unrefined surfaces. So in this material that shows quite precisely all the data, from the total assets and the number of companies to the devices that our companies use in demining and further to surface data, I say here is a total of 954 kilometers of 323 metres of Slavon County, square kilometers. A third, not almost, but exactly a third. Furthermore, from a total of mine suspected surfaces, hurricanes, meadows and pastures that occupy 269 square kilometers, Slavonia 102 kilometers. Forest of 557 square kilometers, Slavonia 352 square kilometers, more than half. So, in any case, for the region where I come from, it would be very desirable and welcome, and I will also try to keep my thumbs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry and all those working on this, from CROMAC and beyond, that this proposal or the National Programme of Mine Action of the Republic of Croatia be implemented and let alone that in 2019 we have cleared the Republic of Croatia from mines. It is true that it is not clear to me, as well as to Mr. Doric, at the end of these terms which are written at the end of this whole material, but I hope that those who wrote this material that they know what it is. So mine danger, mine suspected space and reduction and demining, these are some concepts that got a little mixed up. But all in all, mined by the year 2019, 950 kilometers would be a great success. Given this pace, I'm not going to say that I'm neither pessimistic nor optimistic, I'm holding all of us together figures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39053	Thank you. The HDZ representative's club, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39054	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, the Honored Governor of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support this proposal of the National Programme for Mine Action of the Republic of Croatia. I will begin my presentation with the conclusions on the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2008 and they read: So, then we have indicated that the completion of the review of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia must be done as much as possible, more professional and quality, because that is the basis on which all plans of the units of local and regional self-government are based, and that is what the effectiveness and justification of spending of the state budget and donations depends on. Furthermore, in order to ensure the safety of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, about 900,000 living in the environment should continue to maintain the tags that warn of mine danger. Furthermore, the World Bank credit is used to demining as soon as possible because we have the capacity to do so and we have both organisational and technical opportunities. Furthermore, we also said that we expect a strategy, i.e. a new National Mine Action Programme, as soon as possible. And here he is today on the agenda of this High House. I would like to remind you that mine action involves many activities that seek to mitigate the socio-economic, security and environmental and other consequences of mine problem, and the purpose of this programme is to remove the impact of this problem on people in order to ensure the safety of the population in the first order of security, as well as to create conditions for the development of the economy and society as a whole, including the care of victims, but also to comply with the provisions signed by international conventions. So it includes humanitarian demining, education, assistance to mine victims, but also the destruction of stored mine supplies. The adoption of this proposal by the National Mine Action Programme until 2019 preceded several years under strictly prescribed rules defining the size and structure of the mine problem in the Republic of Croatia. The result of total mine action activities since '91. To date, quite well and precisely defined, mine suspected space has been marked, its significant reduction, and the reduction of mine incidents and the number of victims, as well as the fulfilment of obligations under signed conventions. And here's what the mine problem looks like today, or at the end of 2008 in numbers. It is at 954,5 km2 level and stretches across 111 towns and municipalities. So on 19, or 19,6 almost 20% of local and regional self-government units within 12 counties and marked with 15000 mine threat codes. The defined mine suspected area accounts for 2% of the land space of the Republic of Croatia, where 921000 inhabitants live. In the structure of mine suspected area of forests and forest spaces, 58.4%, agricultural areas of 28.2, macia and karst 11.5, gardens 0.5, infrastructure projects 00.2% and other areas are 1.4%. Here's why I'm picking this up. It's all so far and it's a comprehensive report. All of it, all of it has been working on for the past ten years. And according to the estimates of the Croatian Mine Action Centre on these mentioned surfaces there are over 100,000 different mines. What's the capacity today? In Croatia, the same thing means at the end of 2008 27 legal persons are authorised to carry out demining operations. It is 26 companies and non-governmental association Norwegian National Assistance, which employs 586 pyrotechnics who have 48 dogs for mine detection and 57 machines. Machines, here I will stop, have contributed to increasing overall opportunities to reduce the price of security and confidence of demining and this is an extremely important role to invest in machines. And we know, here we have heard here today that they are both ours and good, except that good export products are also helping us. The possibilities of these facilities are up to 67 km a year. It is also stated in this programme that 80% of total SMEs can be performed by machine 20% exclusively by hand detection methods or combined methods. And another assumption is that of the total mine suspected demining space is planned for 268 or 28%, for search of 684 km2 or 79%, and the general reconnaissance planned for 198 km2. The objectives of this programme that is today ahead of us are to completely eliminate the mine danger by 2019 but also to cover the entire population living in the mine environment with education programmes. But one big, extremely difficult to provide care and rehabilitation to the victims, and from this report we see it means over 1,000. And mostly more than 2/3 of the victims are with severe bodily injuries. And another task is set here and it is very important to position and promote the Croatian anti-mining system in the International Community, and here we really have something to offer. These are domestic machinery facilities, but there are also knowledge and technology. So, the goals are good. The way these objectives are achieved is quite well defined by the programme and as regards both demining and reduction and general reconnaissance. But here there is room for responsible and precise work, because as I said before about defining these activities significantly depends on demining costs and the necessary funds for the same. As far as priorities are concerned, I propose, by respecting the criteria set which are really good, I propose and continued coordination and respect of units and local and regional self-government due to monitoring and accelerated development of certain areas. I would also like to point out that there is room for improvement, i.e. the use of the capacities we have but also the use of the results of the scientific research work of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. So these are open possibilities that we can use a lot more in my way than we've used so far. Talking about this problem not mentioning the victim wouldn't be good. So far, from 1998 to 2008, total demining was spent 2.7 billion kuna and certifiedly meant mine-free with a certificate of 280 km2. Donations, someone said that a colleague said that donations were something small 473 million kuna. This is an extremely high percentage of donations compared to all other users of such support. So, in this same period, it means '98. By 2008, we recorded 289 victims in 211 incidents, but this is less than in 1995 alone. So for this period of 10 years is less suffering than just in '95. A year. Of these, 106 people were killed and 120 were injured with severe physical injuries. During this period, the pyrotechnics suffered 59, of which 23 were fatal and 29 with severe bodily injuries. I will also remind you that a total of 69 children were killed, of which 12 were fatal to 18 years of age, and 36 were severely injured, and 16 were easier. 65 children were killed outside of SMEs, mostly... which this problem and this strategy don't even touch. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the beginning of the war, it means '91. By the end of 2008, in mine incidents in total, we have heard, but it is necessary to repeat a thousand 888 people, of which 493 fatal, and a thousand 103 people suffered serious physical injuries. Although there is a trend in the reduction in the number of victims, we have seen that, unfortunately, in 2009, civilians and pyrotechnics also suffer. Here's to mention that only in the Zadar County area, because it's the county with the greatest casualties, I'm going to mention that she had a war after the war. Since '91. 284 people were killed, 99 of them fatal, and in the period of '94. Until '97. It means 137 people were killed. Almost the same until '94. And after the war of '94. And until '97. Then suddenly, fortunately, the number of victims in this county is reduced. The total number of victims of pyrotechnics since '91, so 123 accidents killed 195. A few days ago, we also marked the 11th anniversary of the death of the late Philip Gacina, Primostenc, defender of the Homeland War, both known, both of whom fell, who died in Zadar County, and buried the late Marin Beretin, who died in Sisak-Moslavina County a month ago. So even though the number of deaths has decreased significantly, let's say that Zadar County was a year free of injury or without mine incidents both in 2005 and 2006 and in 2008 and 2009, 2007 was an exception in this series, I hope that we will continue the series without suffering. The sufferings and the ones I said point to the still present mine problem, but also to its size and need for resolution. This Club of the Croatian Democratic Communities will support this proposal for a mine action programme, and due to my own personal long-term experience in this area, I was free to point out certain measures to be respected in the operationalisation of this programme, which are aimed at this programme. I'll just look back here. I would agree with Mr. Vidovic, a colleague, that it is ugly to see the warning tables in certain areas. Since I come here from the county, from the tourist county, I'll say it's more responsible, much more responsible like this, it's ugly to see, but this is more responsible. Once again I will repeat from here, tourist destinations are clean, communications to tourist destinations are clean from mines, and what is not clean are marked and warned. That's right. I think it's a good, responsible way not to stare at this problem we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39055	Thank you. At 19 hours and 3 minutes, it was time to report a debate of 10 minutes, an individual debate. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39056	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of this document, although I believe that this proposal has many serious weaknesses and shortcomings. I consider the most serious weakness of this document its lack of ambition, unlike some previous colleagues and colleagues, in solving this, I would say the worst problem of Croatian society. Moving this problem to 2019, so only in 10 years does it seem unambitious to me, especially when it comes to the fact that the Republic of Croatia, as well as in this document, likes to be proudly represented as a country that is the most successful in dealing with this problem among all mine polluted countries. This is more important when it comes to the fact that demining is crucial not only in terms of preventing human and animal suffering, but in terms of creating a basic precondition for economic development in today's sub-developed areas of Croatia. I would like to stress that the figures in the programme disagree in terms of predicting the completion of the cleaning of mine suspected spaces in Croatia, although it is forecasted in 2019 as the year of completion of these operations, the programme is actually calculating from 14.2 years for the demining of Croatia. The fact is that this programme is not only about demining, but about a whole series of other activities such as education of the population, assistance to mine victims and mine destruction, but also about the fact that education of the population of the dangers of mine suspected space is not systematically and thought out. I would mention only one example, which is the implementation of the "watch out Mines" campaign, which took place in the second half of 2005, in support of the Ottawa Convention party meeting held in Zagreb that year. Since at the time I worked at the Public Relations Agency, which was working on the pro bono campaign, whose goal was just to educate and sensitize the public on the still burning problem of mining in Croatia, I was amazed to the extent that the competent institutions from the ministries to the Croatian Mine Action Centre were uninterested in this project, not to mention a whole series of local self-governments, especially in the coastal area, which were not only uninterested in the successful implementation of this campaign, but were even openly hostile. The educational campaign was labeled subversive to tourism, I guess on the principle that it is better for the state to put things under the rug and that uninformed domestic people and tourists are suffering, but that it is responsible for dealing with this problem. In this sense, and this is visible from this programme, I must stress that this modus operand of the problems under the carpet continues because the activities of the education of the population and the implementation of the campaign are mentioned only by the way, without defined funding and method of realization. My second objection to this document is to finance the demining program. I think it is necessary to make it clear that although the funds from the demining budget are increasing from year to year, they are increasing in total for the cold drive of the Croatian Mine Action Centre which is very growing in the number of employees, but not in terms of financing the demining operations themselves. In other words, funds are increasing, but unfortunately not for demining but for red tape, as it has already become the usual modus operand of this ruling set. And that's very worrying, and that's why you need to seriously think about what the real structure of spending money on demining is. When it comes to funding the programme, there must be a question and why Croatia does not use more external funds, especially foreign donations, that would certainly speed up Croatia's demining process. I am afraid that the reason for not using external donations is that spending money from these sources must be explained up to one lip, and not quite popular in the circles of the HDZ administration. When talking about the development of demining capacity, the program is quite superficially processing this very important segment, thus predicting a considerable increase in the number of pyrotechnicians, which at first glance may seem to be a good measure. However, in addition to the question of whether so many renewals of new pyrotechnic staff are possible in such a short time, and since a number of active pyrotechnicians are now ahead of retirement, it is necessary to be careful that such expansion of the number of new pyrotechnicians could pose a considerable burden on the recession of the infected state budget. I therefore believe that the programme should have given much greater importance to the use of demining machines but now, by the more Croatian companies produce such machines and thus help the Croatian economy. When it comes to higher use of machines, I think it is not good that the programme does not foresee the introduction of state loans for demining machines, of course, if these machines are domestic rather than foreign production. Finally, I would like to sum up that the weaknesses of the programme are that this document does not specifically say that it will successfully combat the very big problem of stealing the mine-suspecting label, how it will implement the education of the population and how it will position and promote the Croatian anti-mining system in the International Community when it has in mind what debacle was made at the Zagreb meeting of the Otaw Convention parties, and here I mean the unacceptable reactions of the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at the exhibition on 10 years of demining in the region. All this says is that there is still a lot of work ahead of us and that we need to be much more serious and ambitious in solving this extremely big problem of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39057	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39058	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. One of the most difficult consequences of the Homeland War that the Republic of Croatia had to face is certainly mine pollution and unexploded killings. So it's been since the beginning of the war in '91. In the year until 2008 in the mine... 1888 people died of 492 deaths, and 1103 people suffered serious physical injuries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On 31 December 2008, the size of mine suspected space was about 950 km square and affected as many as 12 Croatian counties, i.e. 111 cities and municipalities. The determination to solve this extremely large problem has already been confirmed by the adoption of the Mine Action Act '96. and the establishment of the Croatian Mine Action Centre in 1998. In parallel, we have carried out all the obligations undertaken by accession to the Ottawa Convention, the result of which is now precisely defined and marked mine suspected space, its reduction and a significant drop in the number of mine incidents and the number of mine victims. What is important to say for this National Mine Action Programme proposal is that during the period 2009 to 2019, demining and demining activities would be carried out by demining companies and the Croatian Mine Action Centre plans to demining space of about 756 km square. In total, 4 billion kuna should be provided for those activities and the largest activities would take place between 2012 and 2015. In order to achieve these objectives, an additional number of pyrotechnicians should be hired since 2012, since current capacities are unable to realise the planned scope of the job. In 2013 and 2014, the largest employment of pyrotechnics was planned, which is two times higher than the current number of pyrotechnicians employed by demining companies. As of 2015, the number of needed pyrotechnicians would be gradually reduced. It should also be noted that the Republic of Croatia today is at the very top of the world in demining affairs. Especially in the area of engineering, quality equipment, databases and cartographic displays. Extraordinary efforts are being made to adopt our methodology in the demining system, which would significantly increase the competitiveness of our companies on the world market. In addition to engineering and technology on the world market, we can place only a part of people working on demining operations, primarily quality supervisors and supervisors, while only a few of them will be able to work outside the Republic of Croatia primarily because of the price of works that is significantly lower abroad. The introduction of a market model and tender procedure in the demining system and the integration of development projects with demining projects enables rapid capacity development to be obtained in a completely transparent way by generating prices that greatly increased business economy from one, and through the effects of efficiency and quality of work on the other. The main objectives of this national programme are to fully remove the mine threat from the territory of the Republic of Croatia by 2019. In all phases of resolution, maintain the marking of mine suspected space, education programmes include the entire population living or working in the environment of mine suspected space or gravitating it. Continue to provide care and rehabilitation including psychosocial rehabilitation and economic reintegration to all mine victims, and to position and promote Croatia's mine action system in the International Community. In the period from 2009 to 2019, demining operations are planned to remove mine risk from areas intended for the economic development of the country. It is thought of agricultural areas, forests for exploitation, etc., and from areas that represent a direct security problem for the population. The size of the space planned to be demined is 384 km square. During the same period, a reduction of mine suspected space is planned to reduce mine suspected area of 372 km square. General reconnaissance plans to reduce mine suspected area of 198 km square, and it is about additional research in forest areas and area of Makia and karst. In the end, I would like to stress that I am giving full support to the adoption of this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39059	Thank you. Mr. Representative, Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39060	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Because I come from the county, which is the most polluted mines in the Republic of Croatia and the second per area polluted by mines. I know how to assess the importance of this particular problem, because it is not uncommon for us to have someone killed in the minefield, either killed or seriously wounded, and therefore, in particular, because of our economic interest, it is in our interest to solve the demining problem as soon as possible. What is this important in economic terms, means not only the examples mentioned in tourism, but it is also absolutely and unrealistic to expect serious investors to build shopping centres or build factories near the minefield. Of course it has a very bad impact on the economic situation of Slavonian counties that are mine most polluted on one side, but that is exactly the area that is the most economically endangered at the moment, so I would say as a consequence of the Homeland War. Of course, people living in that area are not to blame for being led there by the Homeland War and should be allowed to earn and to have employment as a consequence and to invest in that area as well as in other parts of Croatia. We here often have opportunities to hear how to train Croatia. Fortunately, there are no mines in Istria, so we'd like it to be that way with us. However, when it comes to projected demining funds, it has been moving at around 300 million kuna per year in recent years. The minimum funds were allocated in 2006 and were then evaluated in our county, if demining continues as it was in 2006, it will be cleared from mines somewhere in 47 years. So, it's about absolutely unacceptable deadlines and this deadline that's been listed for 10 years is actually much more optimistic, I would say more acceptable. However, we want it to be even more important, much shorter. What joys, joy, is that the number of victims declines, which decreases, and the number of victims of pyrotechnics from year to year. However, one of the above objectives and tasks in implementing this strategy is also the question of how the economic reintegration of mine victims is mentioned. I'm not sure what that means. Whether victims of minefields have the right to specific funds or to help find employment or in any way to ensure economic existence, because it is in principle the people of the weakest asset situation that seek profit opportunities and in these mine suspected areas. It is evident from this strategy that more than 4 billion kunas will actually need to be singled out in the next 10 years in order for the whole process to actually end, one of which is projected to be slightly more than half or about half of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. I support all those initiatives that have been put here in terms of looking for different possibilities to finance demining. Several interesting proposals were made by counterpart Vidovic. However, when it comes to the need for a number of pyrotechnicians whose increase is predicted to be almost double in that period from 2012 to 2015, is the fundamental question realistically possible? Is it possible to provide an increase in the funds that will be invested in demining and ensure a double number of pyrotechnics than is now or is it perhaps a more acceptable model for it to gradually grow by 2014 or 15 years, and then it continuously declines, as well as for those people who have found their existence in these pyrotechnicians' jobs, would not suddenly have found a large number of them without further existence and future? So I want to stress that this is still a strategy whose success I fully wish for, I will support. However, I am also expressing certain reserves, as the whole process needs to be accelerated as much as possible, more money is needed to be provided and it is necessary in some way to ensure that the necessary demining funds are provided. Practically, it can happen year after year as it is difficult to put together a state budget, so there are no funds, and then instead of 10 years, this whole program stretches to 20 or 30, which is absolutely unacceptable. I wish you many successes in demining business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39061	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39062	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Director. Here are a few words, although we have heard a lot today about a new proposal for the National Mine Action Programme. Is he good, is he good? I think that it should be better and better quality, more precise and clearer, especially for those people who don't know the terminology, and they don't even know what technical reconnaissance means, they don't know what mine suspected area means, they don't know mine suspected area from mined area, etc. I think in that segment it should be clearer and more precise. And what I would especially point out as a lack of this very proposal, these are the people responsible for its implementation. We have so far had before the proposal for mine action in the Republic of Croatia, by which we should have demined the entire country by 2010. We haven't been able to do that. I wonder, who's responsible for the fact that we haven't realized a plan that was quite ambitious? At that point, I commented, because we didn't have enough capacity, we didn't have enough resources. Who is responsible for failing to realise the 10-year plan and who is responsible for our 10 more years of mined the Republic of Croatia? It's a failure for me. One more question. Who is responsible for the death of ten people of pyrotechnics in 10 years, ten people of pyrotechnics because we did not implement a ten-year mine action plan in the Republic of Croatia? These are serious things, serious questions, and I wish that this proposal now contains exactly that. Someone has to be responsible for implementing this plan. He has to be responsible. It's crucial and important for him to act at all. I'd be happy to respect this plan, as my colleague says he's unambitious. I'm not sure, I think he's ambitious, to demining the Republic of Croatia by 2019 because we must now be aware that in this period of 10 years, a few dozen people will also die. We don't know who that's gonna be. A few dozen people will die, maybe it'll be children, maybe it'll be pyrotechnics, maybe people, civilians living in that area that's demined, and we've seen well that there's about 954 kilometers of suspect, about 920 thousand people living somewhere near that area that's heavily poisoned. I remember years when, and I was doing something in demining, when there wasn't enough resources, when the Mungos companies worked for a few months, and then a few months stopped. There were problems, there were a lot of strikes, people didn't have, they couldn't get paid, and it was a very ugly period behind us, and I wouldn't want that to happen again. And that's why I'm going to ask the director here, and here the representatives of the MUP, what's with the Mungos company, is she still, as she stands now, at all, in which function she is. We've had enough, I've had a lot of complaints about... It's only a ballast director, Mungos, who's made it perhaps now more than 170 million kuna losses in these ten years, and I hear he's already made a new director quite a loss in the company itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although it may not be a particular topic right now, but it is a very important thing, these administrations so far have not seemed to me quite the most capable and they were mostly working seemed to me in the interest of themselves, and these pyrotechnicians and the people who ran it seemed to me that it was somehow in the other plan. I'll mention a few things about the CROMAC reform itself. I think it's time, Mr. Director, to think about it a little bit. We've heard, and we know before, I've warned before that maybe too much money is being spent on the functioning of CROMAC itself, somewhere around 50 million kunas will be spent in the course of the year. I think maybe you should think about reforming CROMAC in a way that you can see that little, that you can sit down and see how you can reduce the number of assistants, reduce the number of motor vehicles, reduce the number of certain employees that at this point may not be necessary because you've now got the Mungos, which is full of pyrotechnicians, which is full of experienced people, and I think that in this context you should see how to reduce the total cost of CROMAC, I mean the funds themselves that go to pay, to the budget itself, and that part spills into what's most important, it's demining. We haven't opened this topic specifically yet, but I think it's time, I don't think it makes any sense to keep this number of CROMAC employees until the end of 2019. It's a little command that's an example of an operational command, a constituency here... who knew it was never more people, and they'd have between 20 and 30 thousand soldiers who were in the band. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's a little too massive at this point, given the crisis, to the recession that hit us and that in this context we should look at and do some savings. Here I also saw the same in myself, others noticed in the report that the plan is to increase the capacity of pyrotechnics by years. I'll just warn that it's okay, but these people need to be educated, they need to be trained, someone needs to pay, mostly private companies, and they need to think about an exit strategy. In 2013 and 2014, we will have 1200, 1300 pyrotechnics. We need to think about how, how to take care of them when the time comes and when they don't have any more work to do. A few days before, I had a few of those people who worked, who were most concerned about what and how, what would happen to them when they got into the situation that there would be no more work. Some companies will have to close down, some will have to go home on the street and people are worried about it and we should think about some exit strategy, as I say we take care of all these people. I thought I'd talk a little more today about that demining system itself, but I don't think there's any more need. Of course, it should be supported, it's a very important, important thing to us. We need to provide enough resources to enable CROMAC to develop all capacities sufficiently and quality. We have a lot of capacity and we can afford to be there much faster, more efficient than we are right now. I will, of course, support this mine action plan because he's better, the worst he's not. The plan is what it is. We have an experienced director of CROMAC who has been demining for many years, who knows his job and I think he will absolutely respect our suggestions and that he will simply do what is best for both the Republic of Croatia and the Mine Action Centre, as well as the general total for demining and of course we will give him support and we will vote in favour of this anti-mining plan. But I'm saying, I'd like to come back for a moment, that politics in CROMAC itself is slightly different now, given the problems we have, the economic crisis, and that we don't have any special, large oscillations in relation to what is spent in CROMAC itself and what goes into demining. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39063	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39064	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Director. Well, here I am, just a little bit, we all know these damages in the Homeland War that have been caused are immeasurable, but also the damage from the other mine explosives also condition one economic damage that over the years has continued, so to speak, a bunch. First of all, last time we discussed the report of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, I praised the cooperation of Croatian forests and the Croatian Mine Action Centre precisely because the very surface area of the forest and forest land is 557 km square and certainly represents a large and lagging economic reactivity. However, whether it accidentally or just might have cracked somewhere on the route of the Croatian forests and CROMAC, according to the Croatian Forests, it is 1400 square kilometers inaccessible. This can now be the difference that is polluted by mine explosives, suspicions and work inaccessible, so where else because of various things is not happening, that is, economic activity is not happening and cannot be entered into those spaces. But what's interesting is that it's trapped in that area, so to speak, 18 million and 300 thousand cubic meters of wood supply and one ethic, what it means can be cut in these forests is somewhere around 2 million and 700 thousand cubic meters, somewhere around 50% of the ethic available in the Croatian forests or in Croatia, and it certainly represents one, I say again, one large reserve and as regards the economy. If they turned it into money and mentioned how average yearly it is in the last ten years, it is about 70 million kuna of direct damage to Croatian forests, because that wood mass remained unused and remained in that forest as it is. For the next 10 years, I've seen there by this program that part will be reduced by reconnaissance, by demining. So we can't expect again, so that's about a billion and 400 million kuna for the next 20 years. So 10 of the past and 10 of the future will be able to use it. However, it is not only a problem to lose this part directly around the stage, or available mass. However, the problem is even greater, both loss and growth, loss of the wood mass, etc. etc. Plant communities are being changed, degraded, i.e. changes in the system classes, i.e. degradation of forests and forest land. However, there is another fact that, as a result of the inaccessible areas of work and agricultural land, that they are gradually in these 20 years that they are no longer orans, they are no longer pastures, meadows, but that these began to be forests and forest land not only owned by the state but also owned by private property, right? Thus, there has been an imminent change in the vegetation that is there. What it is, someone here mentioned hunting. Surely such peace makes it possible for animals to develop, and then again, the problem is, especially in the case of large participations, or the number of feral pigs that then come out of it, so to say the mined space, and they cause damage to the processing surfaces. So there's one problem and a loss, and as far as hunting goes, so on. But all in all, I hope that this programme that is under it will personally support it and will be able to solve problems of forestry, i.e. foresters in a working inaccessible area, or where there are dangers of mine-explosive resources. I must point out that in the last 8 years, the average Croatian forests have invested about 80 million kunas in demining and that these are most of the funds from the OkFŠ, meaning the general user of the forest functions. But this programme does not mention it anywhere, and I am afraid that possibly by amending the Law on Forests or by abolishing what is an increasing cry for this separation of 007% and the Law on Forests, it is then a matter of financing demining itself in forests and forest land, especially in the possession of the Republic of Croatia, which I say again represents a major economic activity. It's not just that I say it through forestry, but through wood industry, through employment, etc. Especially in those rural places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39065	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39066	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. At the beginning of the debate, I would like to say that the proposed programme, the Republic of Croatia, is creating a framework for the end of the solution to the existing mine problem, of course a major problem, as we have heard from all the debates so far. As the biggest problem in ending this process, I see in ensuring a steady stable source of funding, and in this respect, the length of the time period planned to end the demining process. As we can see, it's been planned for about ten years. We certainly believe that it would be good, or that it is possible to accomplish this in a shorter time. I'll also try to state a few reasons why I support the programme in question. The Republic of Croatia has made a major step thanks to the development of demining capacities, thanks to scientific and research work, thanks to the assistance of mine victims, to mine risk education, and with the assistance of partners at national and international level. The results of this expenditure are visible in a number of areas above all in economic, ecological, social, security as well as in all other areas. With this in relation, and based on the scope and structure of the mine problem in the document that we are considering, and the factors on which the solution to the problem depends. We hope that the objectives of the National Programme are realistically set. Most of it and feasible. During the implementation of the proposed programme, we believe that special attention should be paid to the positioning and promotion of the Croatian mine action system in the International Community, all in order to get out of domestic capacities, knowledge and technology on the international market alone or with international partners. It would be sad to see all the efforts that the state or society has made so far in the course of demining and capacity development not to help the Croatian economy, i.e. to solve the same problems around the world. On this issue, I would like to get information from the proposing's representatives whether there are any experiences or plans related to going out on the international market, and whether there is a catalogue in this regard, a capacity plan that wants to go out on the international market. We hope that after the adoption of this document many complex issues that we are discussing will soon be closed to the well-being of all areas where the mine problem has a greater or less impact. These discussions show that we all want to, here is the time of 10 years to be shortened, i.e. that this programme is implemented in as short a time as possible and that this realization is possible in a time of less than 10 years, and for all these reasons, and I support the proposed anti-mining action programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39067	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39068	Here I would just briefly since there were a few questions if I were to explain things briefly to you. So, the government tried to bring in the program, not pessimistic or optimistic, but realistic, by having to take care of it when it came to the adoption of the plan and its dynamics on many resources, primarily financially, then the number of pyrotechnics, the number of companies involved, the circumstances in which they operate. And what Mr. Grcic asked already Croatian companies can absolutely competently report to international competitions and Croatian companies already appear as performers in other countries even on other continents where they are very successful. However, we are primarily interested in working and doing business here so that Croatia can demining itself within this deadline that has been envisaged within 10 years. The question was also about, to say, the creation of new pyrotechnicians, we are all aware that there have been a lot of problems here lately with the state-owned company Mungos, and there we have also had to look for an optimal solution to ensure a sufficient number of pyrotechnics who will be able to carry out demining operations within these deadlines that we have set ourselves, but not to fabricate too many pyrotechnicians who, after completing this job, would be left without a job, a socially endangered category. So we really had certain restrictions on the adoption of this programme and in those frameworks that we thought were real and we tried to bring this programme, which will be, as I said, realistic, which will be feasible and which will provide Croatia without mines in 10 years. And finally I thank all the participants in the debate because it is absolutely visible that all parties, all individuals have a unique wish, it is Croatia without mines. We may be slightly different about how to achieve this, but we from the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Mine Action Centre have indeed tried to propose a program and model that is realistic, which is sustainable, which will guarantee Croatia without mines in 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39069	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39070	Third, Proposal for a National Programme for Mine Action of the Republic of Croatia. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting: Proposal for a National Programme for Mine Action of the Republic of Croatia. Please, who is for this proposal the conclusion of the working bodies? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This proposal was adopted unanimously with 87 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39071	We're going to absorb one more point - 5. Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2008 Carrier of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute which submitted this report pursuant to Articles 129 and 139. Pension Insurance Act. You received the application of the law by mail. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the report at the session. Representative of the proposer Mile Rukavin, director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. A report on the work and business of the Institute for 2008 is in front of you, from which according to our opinion, there is a successful business year behind the office. For the reason that the Institute has done all of its key jobs in the past year within the established deadlines and planned dynamics, even though we had regular jobs and were placed in our responsibilities and other jobs, we have also implemented projects related to the reconstruction and modernisation of the institutions. I would also like to point out that the State Audit Office gave an unconditional opinion to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office for the fourth year in a row, which was influenced by the fact that of the total of 278 public procurement procedures, none has been slowed down with success. The legality, regularity of public procurement procedures in which legal protection proceedings have been initiated, has also been confirmed by the State Commission's decision to control public procurement procedures. What I would particularly like to point out is that, from the debate held in the Croatian Parliament in the context of the report on the work and business of the Institute for the previous reporting period, for 2007, some proposals have been made by your representatives, to supplement the data in the report and business of the Institute, and we have considered and some of them have been installed in the 2008 report, so I would point out some. A more detailed structure, such as the user category, which was proposed up to a thousand and 500 kuna, is on pages 14 and 15. This data on real pension growth, in the reporting period, we have on page 13, then the data on the number of applications received during the last three-month reporting period are provided, in order to clarify that a large number of these requirements in any case affect the urgency of the resolution of pension insurance rights, as it is objectively not possible to resolve them until the end of the year, or until the end of the reporting period. This is on page 33 of the explanation. I would also point out that regarding the results of the work, to resolve the rights of pension insurance rights, and to supplement the children, we have referred to the problem of temporary solutions which, on the one hand, for the purpose of the appointment of the register of administrative proceedings, i.e. the formal duration of the procedure until the final solution is completed. On the other hand, it means a lot to the user and they are important because they ensure the payment of pension income and the achievement of health care. On page 35, we have a detailed explanation. In view of the comments made by some representatives that the office’s business space, in particular the institution’s special state care facility in poor condition, in the light of the 2008 report on the work programme, we tried in the shortest possible lines to indicate which investment investment operations were carried out in 2008 and explained that investment investments were made in line with the financial plan and priorities. The Institute is aware of the fact that the office's business premises, all of which are not what we would like, respected representatives, are in perfect and satisfactory condition, but given the funds provided by the financial plan, reconstruction and arrangement of space, as well as the equipment of modern IT equipment, are realised by such dynamics as is realistically and objectively possible. As regards the opinions of individual representatives, that the Administrative Board of the Institute should submit a report to the Assembly on the work, i.e. a report on its work, we are of the opinion that there is no legal basis for this, because, according to the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, Article 129(2) of the Institute on its work, at least once a year, reports to the Croatian Parliament, insurance undertakings and beneficiaries of pension insurance rights, and the administrative board is a body of management and has no legal obligation to submit the report to the Croatian Parliament. The report on the work of the Governing Council shall, of course, form an integral part of the report of the Institute and shall, under the statutes of the Administrative Board, also bring a report on annual work and business, and shall, therefore, submit reports on its work through that report. They would also be reminded of the initiative from this House of Higher Education in the debate on Parliament, which is to prepare a brochure, a guidebook on pension insurance rights, which is intended for the users of the service of the institution, means insurance and users. We did it. It is available in all services of the office, meaning the info counters in the district services and outposts. Of course, it's on the Agency's website. In the reporting period we have printed about 50 thousand brochures, and if necessary, the corresponding number of copies will be printed and already printed in this year. Of course, we will not waste resources needlessly, but as much as is necessary for the users of our services. With regard to the state of the pension and generation solidarity system, I would like to list several significant data, which is that in the reporting period, respectively on 31 December, a million and 148 thousand 290 users of pension and a million and 604 thousand 848 insurance companies have been recorded and this gives us a ratio of one to 1.40, slightly less than last year and that trend has been several years. As for the pension rate, the average pension achieved under the Pension Insurance Act for December 2008 was naturally reduced by taxes and taxes, amounting to 2 thousand 126 kuna, which is 6 and a half percent, 6.51 more than in the previous year. And the average pension rate on average was 39.31%, slightly less than the last reporting period, I mean in 2007. Information on average retirement, average pension of Croatian military users and further information is detailed in the report. It would also point out that the total income of the Institute was 33 billion and 575 million, and the expenditure of 33 billion and 515 million and the change that was, which is that pensions and pension incomes of Croatian defenders, which were planned as expenditure by 2007 as part of the division of the Ministry of Pensions, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity since 2008 are planned, or planned within the division of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, of course, on the head of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and they are an integral part of pension and pension income expenditure as well as total expenditure of the institutions. In 2008, there was a slight increase in the share of pension expenditure in the gross domestic product to 9.80 from 9.71 in 2008, which is logically due to the payment of an allowance to pensions since 01 January '99. the year according to the Law on the Supplement to Pensions has been reached according to the ZOMO, and due to the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, which reminds me of 01. 01. 2008 increased temporary retirement, minimum pensions, disability pensions due to professional incompetence for the work of pensioners, for the work of employees. In 2008, regular pension, pension and pension payments increased by 6.7%. Which means that pension coordination, pensions have really increased by 0.39%. In addition to pension insurance, the Institute also implements payment rights procedures for children and for December 2008 there were 230 thousand 188 users of extras for children who received an allowance for 431 thousand 960 children and in 2008 we spent an average of 361 kuna and 870 million kuna. Something short on the work of professional service. As part of the implementation of pension insurance at the office, more than 600,000 pension insurance and child rights requirements were addressed, and over 515 thousand of them were resolved, which is 86 percent and this is even a better result than in 2007. In 2008, in the first degree, we had 562,000 requests, where we solved something even more, 87%, and in the second degree we had 37,000 complaints, and here we got a better result than, I think, in terms of solving compared to the last reporting period. I would briefly say a few words about, of course it is unnecessary to say that the Institute also implemented the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Defence, the Law on the Implementation of Constitutional Court Decisions, etc., etc. As regards the modernisation of the institute, I will briefly state that this process has continued and that the Government has, of course, continued to work intensively on these projects related to the reconstruction and modernisation, and the Government has adopted information on the course of the reconstruction of the institutions provided by the Ministry of Our Resort, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as part of the reconstruction of all projects related to the transformation of the business process and to the electronic system in the administrative documents, for example, we have completed an analysis of the comparative analysis of existing and future business processes and there have been improvements, possible improvements in the transitional period. At the same time, we have implemented a programme to provide extra employees with work for projects related to the measures of urgency, to increase awareness. We worked intensively to resolve pension insurance requirements, to continue to deal with the modernisation of archiving operations, to expand the scope of the electronic business within the project "E-Croatia" and to continue the process of secreting the registrar material from 2008, and in this reporting period we eliminated from nearly 187 thousand, 186,000 registries, and I will point out once again that we started the process from May 2005 to the end of '08. that we've extracted material from over a million files. I would also point out that we have continued working on a project to modernise the way we work with the users of the services of the Institute, in which, in addition to opening up the central points of communication with the insurance companies, it is possible for one-stop shop users, to express themselves, to obtain all the necessary information from the requirements, certificates and all the needs of the pension and insurance users, and so far such work has been introduced in the central service of the 15 district services of the Institute and is planned, of course, in accordance with the financial opportunities and in the other field services of the Institute. I would say one more thing that we have done during 2008 is to upgrade the SPIN system that was fully introduced in the year of the office’s operations, which allows for quick, i.e. the control and monitoring of all public procurement procedures, through monitoring the execution of the contract and, of course, better and better quality budget spending. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I hope I was brief and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39073	The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39074	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Director with Associates and fellow MPs. I'm just going to point out briefly what's basically pointed out on the board to be passed on to you, so I won't be long. That'll be very short. The Committee has held and discussed your report and has been highlighted and recommended in the discussion of the Committee to the applicant of this report, that for the following year, the report will be supplemented by data on the accessibility of the premises of persons with disabilities. That's one suggestion. The second also raised the question of the due date, i.e. the dynamics of resolving pension insurance requirements, starting from the application to the exercise of the right to pension. In fact, although the Institute makes decisions on pensions within the legal deadline, it often takes the impression that the procedure takes a long time, since the future beneficiary of the pension does not have any material income. Finally, I must say that the Committee has unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion that accepts the 2008 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39075	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39076	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Director with Associates and fellow MPs. I'm going to try to cut the maximum, because even if this small number of MPs doesn't break up before I finish this report of mine. So, in short, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute successfully completed all the planned work programmes that the director himself spoke about last year, which were also described exhaustively in the report itself. The payment of the calculated debt to Croatian defenders for 2006 and the seventh year as part of the project of reorganisation and staff policy has been completed. The reorganisation and staff policy was implemented through the programme of reduction and care of workers, the continued training of employees and management was carried out. As regards the entire financial operations of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, it took place through the State Treasury system, and as a guarantee that everything was going on with the Budget Act. The total incomes of the Institute, as the Director himself said, were around 99.45% of the planned income, with 60.03% of the income from the contribution and 39.20% of the income from the pension budget according to specific regulations, and revenues for the improvement of the pension system from the World Bank and other revenues. As for pension expenditure and pension income, 97.81% of the total expenditure structure. The Retirement Insurance Act has been an up-to-date solution to child allowance requirements, bearing in mind the social protective nature of child allowances. Thus it was resolved in the first and second degree 99.2 requests last year, which is in any case extremely commendable. During 2008, a million and 604,848 active insurance companies were registered, which is higher than in 2007 for 25,000 385 insurance companies. But also a million and 148 thousand 290 pensioners, which is more than 26 thousand 750 pensioners compared to 2007. So this ratio is as if it's magical between the number of pensioners and insurance companies still remains somewhere one-on-one, four-way, and a continuous normal burden of employees. Out of the total number of pensioners 51.34% of the waste on age pension users, including members of the Croatian Army and defenders of the Homeland War and the Croatian Defence Council, 26.88% and 21.78% of the family. The insurance structure, I think, is worrying, because it's constantly falling for farmers with 46 thousand 726 farmers as many as it was in 2005. The number fell to 39 thousand 824 farmers in 2008. That means one worrying decline in that population. The number of craftsmen who in 2005, there were 83,000 749 insurance companies, and last year they burned somewhere in the number of 79,000 149 active craftsmen. The average pension was made under the 2008 Pension Insurance Act, which amounted to 2 thousand and 126,91 kuna, meaning the share in this average salary of 39.31%, while the average retirement pension was 2 thousand 353 kuna and was 43.50% in the net average salary of last year. The average pension achieved for full-time work in the European Union is considered a pension level parameter in the Republic of Croatia with the last day of 2008 of 3 thousand 154,60 kuna, which is 58,31% of the average net salary for December 2008, which is about the same as in some members of the European Union, whose pension rates for a full-time working life around or slightly more than 60% of the average salary. The average level of pensions is adversely affected by the fact that around 113 thousand pensioners, i.e. 10.5% of pensions were made through the application of international social insurance contracts, and pensions in Croatia were made with an average of 10 years of retirement pension in the average amount of 716.76 kuna. Also last year, 306,000 pensioners or 28.6% received a pension of up to 1500 kuna due to short retirement and low wages. The average age of pensioners was 68 years and 8 months and 71 years and 2 months in men, and the patient had a disability pension of 61 years and 4 months for women, 61 years and 11 months for men. The average age of pensioners increased compared to 2007 because the transitional provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, which the Director himself spoke of, had ceased to apply, on a gradual increase in the age of old age and early retirement. Since early 2008 pensions have been increased since 1.1.1999, with early retirement, the lowest pension and disability pension. The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has been quality prepared and positive developments have been seen year by year to raise the quality of the service provided by the Institute to its users. This is why the Croatian Democratic Community club supported the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for the past year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39077	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39078	I'm correcting an incorrect quote from my colleague Kunst who, if he did so, is clouding the problem. Namely, the term proportionate retirement in the West is not used in this context in which he mentions, so what is the proportion of old age pensions in the average salary, average age and average salary. The proportional pension there is calculated on an individual level, how much my pension is compared to my lifelong average salary, and that is not 53%, but between 75% and 80% in European countries. That's true and it's easy to check. So, not to create the wrong picture that is... Yeah, but it's not good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not simple, it's a technical term that has a different meaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39079	SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39080	Here, Mr. Vice President, I welcome the strong forces of HZMO and the government and the weak force of MPs. In one report, he sits here more than he does there. In a report that, in a methodological sense, is here, at the risk of repeating ourselves to those of us who have been in the Parliament and discussing each year, to repeat ourselves, in a correct report, by looking at the technical side of what is said, about the functioning of HZMO itself. However, in one chronic bad state or poor report when it comes to all the key parameters of the pension system, chronically bad, so bad that it's really no wonder that nobody sits here, that nobody cares anymore because we're used to it. We've gotten used to it, and we've accepted that it's so defined by accident, fate, God's will, or I don't know what. None of the key parameters this report speaks of are good. It's actually extremely worrying, extremely serious data. But the real actors, the real participants of this story are certainly not the people who are sitting here and to whom these problems should be addressed. They're more or less, I'm not getting into it, they're doing their job properly. But starting with the first data, the number of pensioners, he's so serious and screaming a problem that it should be maintained, if you want, scientific gatherings, the government would have to get up on its feet, the whole nation would have to be mobilized. Because having a million and 162 thousand pensioners per million and a half, because now the number of insurance companies has fallen, increased further, this is the data I think for August, is a cataclysmic data. 1:37 is a re ratio, not 1:40 as it is now said, which was in 2008. He fell again to 1:37. It's such a dramatic piece of information. That ease that we've been going through over and over and over again all these years, it's all very expensive. And it concerns not only those pensioners and insurance companies, literally everyone in this country. It's a drama. Today I repeat what everyone knows as soon as it falls below 2%, 2:1 etc., it's dramatic what happened in the past. But we figure it out, put our shoulders down, that's what we can do. There's no action plan to get us out of it. You can't do that overnight. I can't say the SDP will come to power and he'll handle it in a year. No, he won't. It's a social problem. Second question, otherwise I think this is the key to the problem. If we don't have at least 2 million insurance and if we don't stop this stampede in the pension that we've had yet as much stopped, no, we notice exactly the opposite of that happening. It wasn't easy for anyone to penalize early retirement, but that's what we started in that reform. Don't encourage people to retire. Models should be sought to get people out of retirement and people to work as long as possible, not just because of state finances, so that he does not receive but contributes through contributions etc., etc. We would have to consensually agree on that, to which we will be courting, which part of the electoral body and our population if we force people to retire with this church girl they're getting. Which is a culture of work that is promoted through such a concept. Now that penalization has been reduced again. Looking at that kind of social sensitivity, etc. A man would give support to that. But it's a dangerous story. We destitute everything that way. We're povertying everything, all if we motivate people to retire. 1.37 says it's 2004 but it's worse than, say, '99. A year. Worse than 10 years ago, then there was a ratio of one thirty eight. Now in August, one thirty-seven. A 32-year-old peacekeeping internship, age 23, disabled 27, family. On average, 29 years. Let's compare ourselves to other countries. Here are the men of the profession, the craftsmen who follow it. Well, we can't deal with that. We can't secure decent pensions for anyone. If we accept that a respected retirement period can be 29 years and that we can have a decent pension. We can't. It's a problem that I'd like someone to initiate, if you could encourage him, I don't know from HZMO who's actually the competent Ministry of Labour now in his retirement portfolio, I haven't heard a single initiative in the last few years, no question has been raised that would open or solve for a man to see a strategy, so to see here for a peg year, ten. Now we've had this mine problem. But you see it then. Come on, for 10 years, we'll demining and then we'll be in 2012, 2013. But there's nothing here I can't see, nothing. The age structure is terrifying. The height of the pension. Please, we can fool ourselves here as much as we want, we can tell the story. 75% of pensions are below 3,000 kuna. What happens next year? Imagine you're the director now telling us since last year that it was 6.7 in that year 6.7 was a alignment. And that 6.7 increase led to a real pension increase of 0.39%. What if there's no alignment? The fact that I believe that the Constitutional Court will bring it down that it is a disaster, not by changing the Peace Law, to abolish something that is an integral part of pensions. This coordination is an integral part of pensions and it is abolished. The only ones who know they'll get less next year in this country. We all think we might get away with it, and maybe we'll get away with it. Maybe we'll get a little more pay on this one, but maybe we won't. But they know they want pensions. They know that. It's the only predetermined death sentence of the population categories in this country this summer. Without it, it is a dramatic social situation for the product. I don't see that, I guess we're just acting like a push pull that kind of thing when someone squeezes you, when it's organized, when it's noised, when it comes out on the road, arlauce, I won't give you a voice, then do something. And these are our citizens. Share in GDP, share in wages. The share in the pay problem. We can, I've just warned one, let's make a deal, and according to the rules of the profession, it's done everywhere in the world so we don't abuse that information. I can now say that in this report, Mr. Director was actually shown incorrectly because in 2002, a law was passed that made a hundred kunas and 6% became a permanent life-long supplement, a life-long supplement. It was an integral part of the pension, only nominally he wasn't retired to not be coordinated but he was. Both these 100 kunas and 6% as a permanent supplement and this amounted to 44.7% in the average salary. But I agree with you that it's quite a dysfunctional data that doesn't say God knows what, because there's a lot of stuff in it. Average pensions are found abroad, both agricultural and such. That information might be convenient for you to compete from year to year for our internal use. But if we're looking for a new measure, then we have to agree on that, that would be good if the waist said that's what that information means and that. We don't have it right now. What do we have further as a problem we're not talking about? We have a problem with these 12 categories of pensions by special regulations. Morally, a moral problem, people scream at these times when social rights are cut, when it all shrinks together. Let's just say for MPs' pensions. You know, I'd love to have a good pension, too, but that's obviously a moral question that we're going to have to discuss later, the moral dimension of that problem. We need to talk about it. And what has a terrible financial effect that we also need to talk about and we would still have to make a political consensus about it. They're defense pensions. It's now the absolute largest group, the fastest growing group. 61,000 people, 6 billion kuna, go for defense pensions. Guys, let's not play around here anymore. It's serious stuff. It's too much money, and God forbid they're given by defenders, especially disabled people, etc. He needs to take care of things differently. But let's start talking about how we're gonna solve this problem. He'll be a burden to every other government. If you have 500 grand defenders, people what, where are we going, what are we going to do about it? And one more thing. Of course, not everything can be discussed, but all these questions can only be discussed. What I need to say and what bothers children's extras is part of this report, so I'm going to say. It seems to me for years of untruth, a lie that needs to be more reacted to now, and I'm taking this opportunity. This summer, the minister and prime minister say, in the most difficult times of the crisis, around 4 billion kunas have not touched the children's allowances in any rebalancing. She may have made a lapus, but for the record, let me say it. The budget for this year has provided a billion and 870 million for the allowance as last year. Secondly, whose user is 600,000 more than at the time of the SDP, and when the prime minister wants a party, so should I. That's not true! In July, there were 556 thousand children. On average, in July of this year, 409 grand. 140 thousand children less. It says on your website, anyone can check it out. 130,000 and in 2001, the children of the unemployed gained the first right to a child's allowance. It's never happened before, not since in history. Even at one point, we had 609 thousand children covered by a child's allowance. Why lie? Why are we lying? Why are we making up data? The average amount of child's allowance, indeed in 2001, was large, so it was reduced in 2002, but when you look at the share then never, even in 2003, means when it had already fallen to some 1.94% of the state budget it was still higher than in 2008 when it was 1.58% of the state budget. But that bidding who gave it more, who did it more, etc. It doesn't make any sense. I appeal in fact, and that is the purpose of this debate that we are all in the same porridge, we have the same problems, the government is going to change, it's not worth serving with or lying, it's not worth serving with cheap demagogy, the population is very dangerous, and social responsibility is something that goes beyond the mandate of a government. This report speaks of it, even with a single sentence of explicity. I'd like to make that explicit someone say who they really are, who makes the policy that is... Maker in this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're not that. We'll take the report, but we can't accept what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39081	Thank you. And in an individual debate, Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39082	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Director with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, don't mind me, I'll try to shorten my debate with regard to the late hour and not repeat something we've already heard, but don't mind what I'm going to have to say in my first sentence right now that we're talking about a report on the work of this Retirement Insurance Institute for 2008. I stress this because I am sure Mr. Vidovic, as former Minister of Health and Social Care, you know that the number of insurance and pensioners is affected by a lot of parameters and that only one parameter is motivation, possibly motivation. And I'm sure you know what affects this relationship number, but I also have to, but I wouldn't want it to be understood any other way, I didn't want to use the institute to correct the allegations, given the time when we're having a debate on this report, but it would really be inappropriate to claim that this government is cutting social rights, because it's really not true. So, we're talking about mandatory pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity and in 2008, we've already heard, we've continued the trend in the growth of the number of pensioners, but also the number of insurance workers, and on December 31st 2008, there was a ratio of strength, so to speak, one million and 148 thousand and 290 pension users and one million and 604 thousand and 448 insurance companies, which is a ratio of 1 to 1.40. However, I must also say that in 2008, regular pension coordination and pension incomes increased by 6.7%. I don't want to repeat the known information again. In 2004, the average pension rate in average salary increased after the addition of 100 kuna and 6%. Since 1 January 2008, the basis of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act has increased pensions since 1 January 1999. This early retirement and disability pension, due to professional incompetence and payment of pension allowance, has improved the standard of living, so on. new pensioners have also been relieved of the differences between pensioners achieved in different periods. I won't repeat what we've already heard, here's Mr. Kunst saying those 113 thousand pensioners are still using foreign insurance, etc., in which way it affects the average paid pension. But the institution also conducts procedures, we also heard, exercising the right to pay for children, and in this sense, here you are, and you have elaborated Mr. Vidovic as a moving basis actually for paid ones. However, it is also important here to point out that only 0.8% of outstanding claims remained last year and the report specifically singled out the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, contracts between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the areas of the lost war, in BiH and members of their families and jobs in connection with the payment of the Christmas card of pensioners. We must in no way forget that here are the employees of this office at all times have this high socio-protective character in their activities. It certainly needs to be commended for the efforts made by the Institute to transform into a modern public institution. A level of quality of service for users is also observed, which is really very, very important. So we always put a man first, a shorter period of time in the process of exercise of rights, as well as a reduction in the cost of business. Here's your contribution to some anti-recession action last year. The procedures under the rulings of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia show a significant improvement compared to 2007, as there are only 308 outstanding cases left, and a good result has also been achieved thanks to medical professionals who have been deployed to other district services in the absence of staff, which has been conditioned by their exceptional burden. Growth continued, a trend in direct communication with tax collectors, and the number of written queries and performances in decline, and you have also made a major shift in public access and concern is dedicated to approaching different models especially through a guide on pension insurance rights. It is certainly commendable and caring for the human potential you are carrying out by planning the highest quality personnel, selecting the highest quality personnel, motivation, continuous education, enabling professional studies, caring for the health status of employees through systematic examinations, and these are all the reasons for which I will support this quality report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39083	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, with the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-23-0.u39084	Fourth, Report on Work and Business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2008. Carrier of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The 2008 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is accepted. Please, who's to suggest this conclusion to raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 86 votes for and 2 abstentions. Good morning, MPs and MPs. We continue with the session and move to - Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, with the final bill of law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 446 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
