ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42927	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. I welcome you all. I welcome the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We're moving on to today's session agenda. First - Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012 Proposed financial plans for non-profit users for 2010, with projections for 2011 and 2012: (a) Croatian Waters (a) Croatian Roads (a) State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation Agency (a) Croatian Privatisation Fund (a) Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Proposal for the State Budget and financial plans for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012 (consolidated) is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 37 Budget law and Article 174. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 174 and 175. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and State Budget, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Relations, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. For now, these committees. You received the reports at the session. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projections. During the debate on the State Budget Proposal and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure are submitted, expenditure above the amount set out in the draft state budget and projections may be accepted provided that other expenditures and expenditures are reduced simultaneously in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that amendments and budget tabled cannot be voted upon before three days from the date of the debate can elapse. I ask the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to further explain the draft budget. Here you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42928	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ms. Representatives and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I'm glad to be with you again, to be with you again. I'm going to say a few words first, and then, of course, it's going to be complemented by Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mr. Shucker. Here, as you can see before you is the 2010 National Budget Proposal, but this year as you can see, we are not only adopting the budget for the next fiscal year but also projections for the next two years. Therefore, the adoption of the state budget for the next fiscal year and the projection for the next two years shows the medium-term strategic objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which have been established through the three-year strategy of government programmes. Therefore, this budget was created from 2010 to 2012 under conditions, as you know, of a changing macroeconomic environment. The 2010-2012 budget is based on basic macroeconomic projections, i.e. on the mild economic growth that we are forecasting for next year, so 0.5% that will accelerate, we believe and assume, to grow 3.5% in 2012 and certainly predict stable inflation of 3%. In line with these assumptions, we have projected a growth in the revenues of the state budget in the next year of 1.5%. At the end of the medium term, budget revenue will be determined, we believe, by the gradual recovery of economic activity, but also by abolishing the specific tax on salaries, pensions and other receipts. Therefore, I am announcing once again, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that we will closely monitor what is happening in the revenues of the state budget next year and absolutely keep an eye on and focus on any possible decision to abolish this tax and before the end of next year. On the other hand, the expenditure of the state budget marks a more significant rationalisation of business in 2010, but also pre-set expenditures such as expenditure under the law of guaranteed rights, interest and debt prices of previous years. I will repeat here a well-known fact, but I think it should be repeated over and over again, because of those who may not be sufficiently informed, I certainly don't think about any of you, which is that more than 87% of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia is pre-set because that part of the budget refers to salaries, pensions, social expenditures. So, for all those givings that are related to different rights through different laws, but I also have to say on the resolution of the consequences of war or aggression on Croatia. At that part, it seems to me, as if part of Croatia had been forgotten, but still today through the budget and this and the one for the next two years, we will, among other things, remedied the consequences of the war. I am certainly counting all those obligations under special law and special laws towards Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, because they did not want war, they simply went to defend the country and Croatia is obliged to repay that debt. In 2010, pension expenditure, so I'm going to mention the expenditures that are increasing, will grow by 582 million kuna. Also, birth benefits for more than 110 million kuna. I point out this as one good news, because certainly based on the fact of the number of children born this year and the projections for next year we are increasing the amounts and, as you can see, significant for maternity benefits. Since one of the pillars of work and these governments is demographic progress, demographic growth, or finally the resolution of this huge problem that is related to the population, and therefore we believe that these 110 million kunas are also additional investment in the future, but I would say investment in the economy. However unusual this may seem to you at first sight but investing in children and in the future is an investment in those who will work after 18, 20, 25 years tomorrow. We also increase the allowance by 15 million kuna, expenditure for Croatian defenders by 26, and expenditure for the unemployed is slightly more than 34 million kuna, given the fact that in Croatia, as you know, the crisis is still taking place and we need to ensure that such stability is ensured for all those who unfortunately remain jobless. However, since we have recently entered the very conclusion of the negotiations with the European Union on the expenditure side, additional commitments have also been made to conclude the negotiations and are moving to an amount of as much as 2 billion kuna. So more than this year, but also co-financing of projects under the pre-accession programmes of the European Union and that is more than 432 million kuna. Here I will further specify the activities and projects that are related to the adaptations of the Republic of Croatia in the accession process to the European Union, so please note these figures. So, for reforming and modernising the judicial system, which is what we talk about extremely very often and when we are talking about and when we want the true judiciary primarily for every human being, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who will guarantee his safety then I believe that you will support both the allocations for reforming and modernising the justice system of nearly 112 million kuna additional millions in the 2010 budget. We also need to adapt the agricultural system to the European Union rules, i.e. to the common agricultural policy, and further separate more than 502 million kuna in the 2010 budget. Also to establish and manage the Schengen system with 234.7 million kuna. So it is the same obligation that we must correct because we ladies and gentlemen are near the end of negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union. For modernising and informing customs, we allocate an additional 131.5 million kuna. For equipment and construction of border crossings almost 83 million kuna. For the speedy care of returnees and refugees, ladies and gentlemen, 648.8 million kuna. That's what I was talking about. So we still have to provide funds in the budget to solve the consequences of the war. So, 648.8 million kuna. Adaptation to the European Statistics system of more than 38 million kuna, strengthening administrative capacity of 150 million kuna. And now let me just say something about some of the ideas that we've heard these days about how the government should stop this budget and secure temporary funding, change the laws, and as we've heard, I don't know how many thousands of people who are employed in state and public services. I'm referring here to this problem that we have, so strengthening administrative capacity for which we have to invest 150 million kuna extra, because we need people who are going to do this job to the end. So negotiations and all the jobs that are important in the negotiations for Croatia to become a member of the European Union. So the total cost of these activities related to the end of the negotiations in 2010 is 2 billion kuna. So, just these things that I've listed 2 billion kuna to you, and in 2011, there's going to be something less, it means a billion and 900 million kuna, and we're also planning this budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as I said at the outset, we have been through a budget that is now near the end, and that is the 2009 budget that we have, as you know, rebalanced three times this year, asked for an additional reduction in anything that could have been reduced. So, and material expenditures, representations, etc. With that trend, we keep going. And here's what I'm going to mention, it may be irrelevant, but it shows the government's efforts. So we start with the team that was scheduled for this year, or in last year 2008, about 50 million kuna. Now she's 30, but we'll try to keep her down wherever possible. However, I would also like to tell you some more information on the government's decision to ensure in the budget what we must, without which we cannot and what I have said is important for the conclusion of the negotiations. However, we have done many difficult and painful cuts. However it may seem to someone and however often they suffer criticism. Thus, in 2010 the allocations for subsidies decreased by a billion and 200 million kuna. Subsidies to shipyards for 180 million kunas, railways for 125.3 million kunas, maritime subsidies 42 million kunas, and agriculture due to a change in agricultural policy which must be brought closer to the European incentive system for nearly 696 million kunas. Here, please remember those numbers too. And as for the material expenditures, they were reduced by 645 million kuna. So, I think that, along with many others that I have not mentioned, show the trend that we want to go to. With all the interest payments mentioned next year amounted to 6.3 billion kuna, representing a growth of billions of kuna compared to 2009, when they amounted to 5.3 billion kuna. So I'm talking about interest and interest funds that we need to secure in the 2010 budget. So when these expenditures are to be adjusted to European Union standards and the growth of interest expenditure totalling €3.4 billion, we exempt from the total expenditure for 2010, then budget spending in 2010 remains €117.8 billion, which is a decrease compared to 2009, when this same budget spending amounted to slightly more than 119 or more than €119.4 billion, respectively. Ladies and gentlemen, with all these savings that I've been talking about, and with the fact that as you can see, we continue to keep the most sensitive groups in Croatian society as much as possible, so the retired families with children, families with small children, those people, those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who don't work. In addition to this budget, we will provide some other measures that I believe will have a significant impact on the 2010 budget in the final. Today, at the government meeting as the end of a big job that we've done, we're going to call for a head office, so for the person who's going to be headed by the special office that we're setting up, where public procurement for all ministries, all agencies, all offices, means for all the users of the state budget, one place next year we're going to unite public procurement. In that office, in order not to think that we are hiring new people, the best officials, or the best persons of the ministry, will join the office, above all those who have been engaged in public procurement and who have had the results. Some projections say, and we'll see that eventually when we add up and subtract what we get through these measures. Some say that through this united public procurement, we could save up to 350 million kuna. We, as you know, also announced a public administration reform. That's absolutely what we're going with. She'll probably have the first results in next year. But what I'm saying is that public administration reform can't be achieved by making a decision and sending 20, 30, or I don't know how many thousands of people we're suggesting. That's absolutely impossible. It's unacceptable for us. Of course, programmes need to be made, to see how and how to redistribute people, given the sub-capacity of the issues relating to the conclusion of the negotiations. We will also create a register of public sector employees as a backbone for public sector reform. Also review the system of agencies and institutions and coordinate their pay system, with a regular wage system. Of course, I mean the funds. I have already announced that we are considering possible further changes in the system of preferential pensions, and that is what we will apply. You will likely soon hear about some of the first results. Of course, we continue to work on a major project of reconstruction, territorial reconstruction in Croatia. I mean, first of all, that part of the job that often stands out in political space means the number of municipalities, first of all. We'll see. It's the same job that can't be broken over your knee. We did a great research on how they operate primarily in the municipalities. We gave, perhaps, the simplest thing to say, to pull out all the incentives, all the funding that came through different ministries, funds, etc., to individual units of administration, or self-government. Based on that, we'll make these analysis criteria and then we'll see if we can all go into this business together. But certainly not undoing the election results. It's a fundamental principle that we're going to follow. We will also continue to strengthen the management and supervision of the work of public companies. Here I want to make it very clear here also to announce the completion of a job we have done, which is the launch of a public tender for supervisory committees in public enterprises. So public tenders for all of them I believe capable people who will, on behalf of the state, oversee the work of public companies. So, on the trail I think of a consensus in Croatian society about that we should withdraw what is called in the classical sense of the policies from the supervisory committees, but the state has to keep surveillance and we will go with this project which is as I said in the end. I also announce the revision of all existing management contracts. We will go as we have announced in the presentation and new Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to encourage further entrepreneurial activities. I am announcing some of the measures that will soon come before the Croatian Parliament to reduce the burden on the economy by non-taxable duties. There, of course, should be good analyses first, and then good decisions should be made. We will reform the system of compensation for citizens and households and move on to the censorship system for all I also announce is finally functioning in its fullness of the OIB, from the beginning of next year and I believe that this will help one different, organization of a different system of care for the most vulnerable in Croatia. So the system, in full terms, that word of the social compensation system. We'll also change state support policy. I was already talking about agriculture. Well, here's what I think we'll be discussing in the Croatian Parliament soon enough. We need to revise those support which is a burden on the budget, and we will need to adapt the conditions and standards of the common agricultural policy to Croatia's entry into the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just say a few more words about public enterprises. That's what I'm coming back to. Through various measures and activities of the Government, therefore, certain government decisions have managed to achieve additional savings in public enterprises of nearly a billion and 400 million kuna. However, what is also important is that these companies have done a large part of business well in this year and we continue to insist on a 10% reduction in wages of all public enterprises, this job is primarily designated for supervisory boards and administrations and by the end of the year we will insist on it. But I have to tell you one piece of information that, unfortunately, is in the sea of bad news that we've been getting this year, is information about growth gains. Therefore, in 12 public companies, it dealt with profits that are almost kuna 700 million. Let me say one more thing about the INA on liquidity or liquidity, we believe in the Government, or we claim that the state fulfils its obligations, however, as regards the debt of the INA that has been discussed a lot, which has been semi-mermised in the public, I can announce that we are on track of an agreement or agreement and we are confident that this debt will be returned by the end of this year, there sometime on December 29, 28, 2009 and then it will be much easier, not to elaborate on why. I also announce that, ladies and gentlemen, by the end of next week we are likely to call for a second round of privatisation of the shipyard. It's a job that ends, and I believe that this second round will be successful and that we will slowly solve this problem that weighs us all down. In the end let me say just a few words about the announcement of some club representatives in the Croatian Parliament that no amendment will be submitted. We in the Government see this as a recognition of the 2010 budget, because, as you know, the amendment proposing an increase in an item must be determined and the one from which it must be removed. Therefore, it is obvious that the representatives who have decided to do so understand that there is no longer any place to go without jeopardising a large number of Croatian citizens and that this is a balanced budget for 2010 so Mr. President, MPs and MPs I suggest that the Croatian Parliament accept the 2010 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42929	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now have one set of corrections of incorrect allegations. She's the first female representative of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42930	So I'm correcting Mrs. Kosor's quote that the birth benefits are a role in the future. It would be a role in the future, Mrs. Kosor, if you hadn't taken down any less than 11 million kunas on the other side for all preventive programmes intended for children and young people. In three ministries, you cut almost half of all prevention programs that are meant for children and young people, and the result of your behavior will be only an increased number of violence among young people and children, and I believe that at that moment you will be the most responsible person because of the increased number of violence among children.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42931	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42932	Thank you very much. So I have to admit, I'm amazed at the superficial approach of Madam Prime Minister to the views of the main opposition party. Because if it hadn't surfaced what was said yesterday at the SDP press, or briefing, it wouldn't have been possible to say that someone, referring to the SDP, advocates that a large number of civil servants end up on the street. That's not said a word. The fact is that in this country, so the government does not dispute the need to reorganise the state administration, only there are those who know and those who do not know how to make that reorganisation, who do not know and know how to plan and program employment. So I'd like to ask you to quote exactly what the SDP said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42933	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I would like to warn you immediately at the beginning of the debate on this agenda point that correcters of an incorrect quote are mostly correcters of opinions and views. Who knows which way I point it out so I don't have to repeat myself later, I warn that because of those who notice this element in others and don't notice them, when they point out that incorrect assumption that is not a correction but a correction of opinion. Let's move on to correcting the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42934	Thank you very much. I'm going to correct three incorrect allegations from the Prime Minister. The first is that this budget takes care of those who need it most, how much this budget takes care of these people is about being in 2009. Fifty thousand people are out of work, another 50,000 people are going to be out of work next year, that 100,000 people are working in companies that are blocked and can't get paid, and they're so worried about that budget. Another incorrect allegation is that public companies have won 700 million kuna, but the prime minister has forgotten that they are receiving 2 billion kuna subsidies, which means that they are burdened by the state budget of a billion and 300, not by some kind of profit, that they have earned some kind of profit. And the third incorrect allegation is that the prime minister is pushing for a policy outside of the company's supervisory board, and here is the newly elected chairman of the INA Supervisory Board, and I find it very strange that the prime minister is saying that politics should go out of the supervisory board, and a week ago she appointed Minister Shuker and Minister Pankretic to the INA Supervisory Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42935	Thank you. I also ask MPs and MPs to pay attention to the light that burns that red, all MPs and MPs regardless of which side they sit. Furthermore, the correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go. He's giving up, thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42936	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, I'm going to make it right as it says incorrectly. So, there was a claim that public companies are working to reduce the mass of 10%, is that so, Madam Prime Minister, and that this specifically refers to high management salaries and other boards on supervisory boards. Okay. But here is the case that from the Croatian lottery which is successful, 118 employees are fired. If that's the measure you're talking about, then it's really not that. And 118 people are out of work. Three Luttria branches are closing in Croatia, such is the intention. Therefore, if you cut the branch on which you sit and which brings you to the state of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, then I really don't know what these are measures where you're talking about 10% wage cuts, and actually you're firing employees, not management or others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42937	Thank you. And Mr. Agent Iron Flego's correction. He's giving up. Thank you very much. Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Ivan Shuker. As an addendum to the explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42938	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, there's little time left, so let me take this first call and look back at some things. Last year we talked about it, we're going to go bankrupt, it's going to be like this, it's going to be like this, as you see it, it's over, we're not bankrupt, we're not going to be late for any payments from the state budget. So, what I would like to say is that over the past few months, a series of consultations have been carried out with leading economic experts in the Republic of Croatia and say that if all institutions in the Republic of Croatia and international financial institutions are talking about economic recovery next year from around 0.4. 0.5% I do not know what projection the Government of the Republic of Croatia should have gone with. Do you deny all these institutions or stick to it? But let me just say a few things about the revenue side of the state budget and answer some questions, is there a possibility in Croatia to expand the tax base? Is the property tax something Croatia does not have and is the property tax something belonging to local self-government units? The property tax in the Republic of Croatia is something belonging to the units of local self-government and property tax is not something unknown in the Republic of Croatia for the reason that the base of the unit of local self-government collects 5.9 billion kuna annually and when you add a municipal fee, then that amount is far higher. However, when we talk about taxes and when we talk about Croatia becoming a full member of the European Union in a year, a year and a half, then we should use tax experiences that countries that are far older and have a far longer tradition than we are, so you will see that none of these countries have a more significant fiscal impact on property tax. Not one. The second thing, what we forget, and that's what the value of housing and belonging land is and what that relationship is with the income available. In the richest counties of the Republic of Croatia, this relationship is 1:7 and this suggests something else, that over 90% of Croatian citizens have some property, real estate. And now we're asking one basic question, what would be the social aspect of taxing it? And another thing, what time period should it take to introduce that tax, to make its fiscal effect seen in a year? We have an analysis done by the Economic Institute. So it wasn't done by anyone at the Ministry of Finance, so it wouldn't have turned out that we'd done something biased. And I repeat property tax is not something the Republic of Croatia doesn't have. And let us not tell Croatian citizens that a tax on property should be introduced, that this will result in strong income, then we should tell the mayors, mayors and mayors that we will take those revenues from you, because at this point they are their incomes. The second thing, the re-alignment of the health contribution rate means 9 billion kunas less in the revenues of the state budget. And since I have little time, it is very modern in Croatia to talk about reducing and reducing the state administration. When we talk about government, then we need to figure out two basic things. Because we just have to do it because that's the way it is. We need to separate public administration and we need to separate state administration. Public administration has education from primary school to higher education and health care. And it's somewhere around 164 thousand employees and we have, just a little more please if I can get another minute. State services, which employs 84 thousand employees. But it's a very interesting structure in state services. So, 26 grand is the police, 21 grand is the defense, 13,000 are the courts and customs and the tax administration are 7.5 thousand. So that narrow state administration that we're talking about, it's eight thousand people. Now, tell me, how do you of the 8,000 people plan to reduce 30 or 40 grand to that? Reduce the number of employees in public institutions, you cannot do without one systematic reform and health and education. And you can't do that in 15 or a month. Because since my time has elapsed, as the President of the Parliament has said, the State Budget Act has clearly defined how and what conditions can be applied to temporary financing. I can see that in some cases when data is available that are inconclusive, the government is nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42939	Thank you. We've got corrections. The first is representative Zvonimir Mršić for correcting the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42940	I would like to correct the minister's claim that there is a property tax in Croatia which is the income of the local self-government unit. There is no tax in Croatia called property tax and it is not the income of municipalities and cities. There's real estate tax, it's something else entirely, and there are some other taxes that are calculated on the basis of cubic and squares. We're talking about something here that should be counted on the value of the property. So it is completely incorrect that there is property tax in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42941	Thank you. And the correction of Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42942	Thank you very much. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that there's a property tax. It wasn't a claim, that's what the minister said we were. It is not the claim that there is no property tax, but that the tax is an unfair minister. Instead of 5 kuna per square tax the property by value. Yesterday I said during the debate it is unfair for rich people to be protected by Minister Shuker, that rich people in Croatia pay 500, 600, 700 kuna taxes on millions of property. And why don't you want to change that? Which is why someone who has a holiday villa of one million euros doesn't pay 1% of the value of taxes every year as a luxury tax. That's what we don't have in Croatia, and you're the kind of people who protect ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42943	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42944	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the esteemed presidents of the Croatian government, respected vice presidents and ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 at its 44th session held on 25 November 2009 with projections of the State Budget for 2011 and 2012 as a home working body. Introductory representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that for the first time this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted a budget for 2010 and projections for the next two years in accordance with the Budget Law. In 2010, a slight recovery of the Croatian economy and real growth of gross domestic product by 0.5% at an expected 3% inflation rate is projected. The total revenues of the 2010 state budget are planned to amount to €112.8 billion, which represents an increase of 1.5% compared to 2009. The total revenues of the 2011 state budget were projected at €114.4 billion, up 1.4% year-on-year, while the total revenues for 2012 were projected to be €118.6 billion, representing an increase of 3.7% compared to 2011. Business revenues for 2010 are planned for a total of €112.6 billion, which is 1.5% higher than in 2009 and in their structure are the largest part of the tax revenues of €65.5 billion or € 58.1%) and contributes to €40.3 billion or 35.8%. The total expenditures of the State budget for 2010 are planned at €121.4 billion and are higher by €904.7 billion than expenditure of 2009. However, taking into account the costs of 2 billion kuna that the Republic of Croatia will have to adjust in the accession process to the European Union, the increased cost of interest of 1 billion kuna as well as the cost of co-financing of EU pre-accession programmes of 432.2 million kuna at that time is 118 billion kuna, which is a significant reduction compared to 2009 when it amounted to €119.4 billion. Business expenditure in 2010 is planned to amount to €119.1 billion, representing an increase of €988.3 million and 0.8% more compared to 2009 and most of these expenditures relate to compensation for citizens and households on the basis of insurance and other benefits, pensions, health and social contributions, social benefits of €64.6 billion, which is more than €58.4 million compared to 2009. The total planned revenue of €112.8 billion and total planned expenditure of €121.4 billion shows that the deficit of the State budget in 2010 will amount to €8.6 billion or 2.5% of gross domestic product, which will be financed by the difference of total income from the financial assets and debt of €28.8 billion, as well as the total expenditure on financial assets and the payment of loans of €20.2 billion. The total shortfall in the consolidated general government will decrease by 0.2 percentage points from 2.9% of gross domestic product in 2009 to 2.7% of gross domestic product in 2010. The general government budget deficit for 2011 has also been projected to 2.6% of GDP, while it will drop to 1.8% of the estimated GDP in 2012. Following the opening presentation of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the following opinions, observations and proposals were presented on the committee. That the proposed State budget is, in fact, a copy of last year's state budget and was actually made on the basis of the current economic policy, and this is how the proposed state budget is aimed at new borrowing aimed at serviceing current consumption rather than at fostering the development of the economy and new employment. It also warned of the growing problem of indifference and growth in unemployment as well as the ineffectiveness of anti-recession measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which did not result in the expected results. However, it was pointed out that the proposed State budget was made optimally since almost 87% of the budget was already budgeted and it was particularly pleased that the funds provided were greater for regional development and for the improvement of the water economy, for the promotion of science and excellence, for investing in the competitiveness of the economy for which 6.7% more funds were provided compared to the previous year and it is also evident from the above that the anti-recession measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia created a good basis for gradually overcoming the consequences of the recession in the Republic of Croatia. The strengthening of administrative capacity has been reported to ensure a high level of 80% withdrawal of financial resources from the pre-accession European Union funds that will contribute to faster development of the Croatian economy. In particular, the debate pointed out that the proposal for a state budget is extremely high-quality technical and that the level of presentation will make it much more transparent and transparent. With regard to the revenue side of the budget, it is particularly noted that the need for a review of the level of excise duties on the production of speedboats and small ships up to 7 metres since the introduction of the excise duties in question did not give the expected positive results and therefore domestic production was on the greatest impact. Due to the sudden sales of small vessels, domestic production is at risk and therefore existing jobs for around 3,000 small shipbuilding employees. For those reasons, an opinion has been given on the need for an urgent review of the level of excise duties on those vessels. It is also pointed out that maximum financial discipline and eradication of the grey economy are necessary in order to achieve the planned revenue of the 2010 budget. Also, concerns about increasing the cost of paying interest amounting to 1 billion kuna have been raised. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority votes, 7 votes for and 5 votes against the Croatian Parliament to propose the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and 2012 projections, as well as the following decisions: Decisions on granting consent to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan, Decisions on granting consent to the Croatian Roads Finance Plan, Decisions on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, Decisions on granting consent to the Croatian Privatisation Fund, Decisions on granting consent to the Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency, and all for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42945	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42946	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia discussed at its 22nd session held on 25 November a proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia discussed this draft law on the basis of its competence as an interested working body, with a specific reference to projects i.e. items of the budget relating to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Representatives presented the draft budget to the committee members in the context of the overall financial situation and introduced them to basic macroeconomic and financial developments and parameters. the framework in which the budget has been adopted, as well as the programme approach in the draft budget based on the strategic planning of individual authorities of the state administration. The debate shows satisfaction because projects relating to the vital interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, primarily projects of science and education, health care, return of refugees and displaced persons, will continue to be implemented, as well as much understanding as their scope will be reduced. in line with the financial opportunities and the overall economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. Because it is stressed, the financial and economic stabilisation of the Republic of Croatia is the same as the interest of Croats in the world, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia with the interest of Croats and all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The debate also highlights the importance of any cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and Croats in the world as a mutual interest. of first-class national importance. It is therefore necessary to fully coordinate the allocation of funds for targeted projects and groups of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in line with the strategic provisions of the Republic of Croatia, consistent with global movements and the growing importance played by parts of people outside the countries of origin, as well as the diaspora in general, in the political, economic, scientific, cultural, demographic and ino field. In this context, the Committee also welcomed the announcement by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the adoption of a strategy for Croatians outside Croatia, as well as its legislative implementation, which would establish an even more effective and effective interrelationship based on the overall national interest. After the debate, the committee proposed most of the votes to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the 2010 State Budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42947	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Economy, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42948	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable members of the government headed by Mrs. Prime Minister. Namely, the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament at the 31st session held on 25 November 2009 discussed the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and projections for 2011, '12. a year with belonging documents. The Committee shall be based on Article 1440. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed that draft state budget as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the proposaler's representative briefed the board on the basic macroeconomic frameworks and evaluations, revenues and expenditures, as well as an assessment of the overall lack of the State budget for 2010. The macroeconomic indicators serving as the basis for the 2010-2012 budget speak about the depth of the economic and financial crisis. It is also very difficult to assess the shape and dynamics of leaving the crisis based on the indication of the recovery of the world economy's real sector and the assessment of the three-year growth of the economy is very careful. As a key problem, the promoter points out the deterioration of financial market conditions, higher interest rates and a decrease in credit ratings, as well as a decline in investment consumption, industrial production and a decline in exports by 17.6%. The 2010 budget envisions a slight recovery of the Croatian economy and real growth of the gross domestic product from 0.5%, which would increase to 3.5% by 2012 as planned. As a significant positive impact on economic recovery and growth, the deblockation of the negotiations for accession to the European Union has been highlighted. The total revenues of the State budget for 2010 are planned to amount to €112.8 billion, representing a growth of 1.5% compared to 2009. In the income structure, the majority of tax revenues are 58.1%, followed by 35.8%, revenues from sales of goods and services 3% and incomes from assets of 1.4% and other revenues. The total expenditure of the State budget for 2010 is €121.4 billion, representing an increase of €904.7 million and 0.8% of expenditure of 2009, noting that the largest part of this will be used for the adjustment of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union accession process of around 2 billion kuna, to co-finance projects under the pre-accession programmes of the European Union, i.e. domestic component 432 million kuna and increased interest costs of around €1 billion. The budget deficit of the central state is 2.5, i.e. it is planned with 2.5% of the gross social product, and if deficits of extra budget users and local units of 0.1% of the general consolidated state deficit are added, it is planned with 2.7% of GDP. The budget reduced subsidies of about 1 billion kuna, of which 695 million refers to agricultural subsidies and these direct, then 205 million to shipbuilding subsidies, 125 million to railway subsidies. The Committee members expressed satisfaction with the reduction of sectoral subsidies that, if they are put in a balance with GDP, are greater than in the European Union countries. However, it has been noted that the reduction of shipbuilding subsidies requires an effective, therefore rapid and successful implementation of its privatisation. The total amount planned for the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship for 2010 increased by 1.5% from 2009 to 37 billion 422 million to 37 billion 969 million. It is important to point out that although this increases the proportional expenditure on pensions of 582 million in internal distribution of funds, the continuity of all programmes aimed at promoting entrepreneurship and increasing competitiveness is ensured. New items such as competitiveness and sustainability of the energy system have also been introduced, the promotion of small shipbuilding, the transfer of environmentally acceptable technologies, and the promotion of investment in the economy. The new item is also to strengthen capacity to remove irregularities in public procurement procedures for which an amount of million and 300000 kuna is foreseen. Some committee members have expressed doubts about the projections of GDP growth and the implementation of the revenue side of the budget in view of overall economic trends, as well as the conclusion that the budget does not recognise a shift in economic policy. Individual board members also warned of the importance of orderly settlement by public undertakings in order not to question liquidity and the insolvency of the economy, and that creating a more quality business atmosphere would make arguments to all those who are crisising abuse and do not settle their obligations as an excuse. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 with a proposal for projections for 2011 and 2012 with the corresponding documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42949	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42950	The President-in-Office, ministers, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government held a meeting on 25 November to discuss the 2010 National Budget Proposal and the 2011 and 2012 projections. The Committee did so as an interested working body. The Committee held a joint discussion on the act in question and the final draft law on the implementation of the state budget. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the basic provisions of the act in question, noting that the revenues of the state budget are €112.8 billion, representing an increase of 1.5% compared to 2009 while expenditure amounts to €121.4 billion, representing 0.8% of expenditure increases. Following the introduction of the proposal, most of the committee members supported the proposal for a national budget for 2010 and the projections for 2011 and 2012 in the text as proposed by the Government. According to the opinion of part of the members of the Committee of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and 2012, the projection for 2011 and 2012 is not a visible programme of fiscal decentralisation, which was set out by the Government of Croatia's 2009 programme for the term of office. Also, an opinion has been given to help local and regional (regional) self-government use non-transparently, thus bringing local and regional (regional) self-government units into an unequal position. In fact, the ongoing support from the state budget of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government concerns the correction of fiscal capacity, the promotion of investment in capital programmes and others. In this regard, it was also pointed out that the content of the 2010 State budget’s justifications did not show, for example, which programmes will focus on the State budget for 2010 planned to support units of local and regional (regional) self-government. In this respect, it is pointed out that these resources should be used from the state budget to meet the necessary conditions. Development projects should be financed in these units, not expenditures, for example, for employees. With regard to the proposed amount of funding for decentralised functions, an opinion has been expressed that the proposed amounts are not sufficient in view of the observed fall in income of local self-government units and the expected growth in the need for additional countervailing funds for decentralised functions in 2010. The debate indicated that the draft budget needed to be attached to the 2010 employment plan. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority vote of 5 for and 2 against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and the 2011 and 2012 projections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42951	Thank you very much. Do they want other representatives of the board? On behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42952	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Respecting Mr. Caine too, I'll be very brief. You'll get everything in writing, the reasons why I called, just because you didn't have a written report. I would just like to point out that this part of the situation relating to the Mountain Rescue Service has been discussed on the board and the Ministry of the Interior has promised that in the coming situations it will try to provide an additional 2 million kuna and also on the board expressed concern about the significant reduction of money for the Coast Guard in a 100 per cent amount. And most of the votes five two-one abstention committee accepted, or proposed the adoption of the budget to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42953	Thank you. Do they want more representatives of the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42954	Dear President, members of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. I was expecting a political debate here and an attempt to tell where Croatia is going next year. That's what I expected from the Prime Minister. I didn't expect one financially, basically an accounting report. But unfortunately, that's exactly what we got, according to the items a million simo, a million there. I don't think it's the job of the Prime Minister. It's not even a job, not even a finance minister who later had no time to go into some dubiose budgets more closely than he did with SDP, HNS, IDS proposals he learned from the media. I'd like to ask the prime minister and the finance minister if they know who Herbert Hoover is. And you know why I ask you that? Because it's horrible in some of the politics you're taking, although you're not aware of it, it reminds me of Herbert Hoover's policy. It's a man known for his Hoover defense on the Colorado River, but he's more famous for being the 31st American president, at the time of his term, at the very beginning of the New York Stock Exchange. For three and a half years, he's been conducting a policy that your policy, or non-political policy, reminds you terribly. And that policy in English is summed up in a shortcut of the Nimbi, not in my backyard, not in my backyard, not happening in my backyard, things will go by themselves. No active policy measures, it's just a cyclical disorder of capitalism, and things will lie in place. And so things lay in place, he raised taxes, of course at a much lower level of public spending than today, he raised taxes, production fell, unemployment grew by 10, 15, 20, 25, 28% of the active workforce and then came to power by another president who was a little more famous than Herbert Hoover. And there is no likeness to you with it, but from such examples we could draw lessons. You can't have politics being not in my yard. It's in our backyard. We can't solve problems just by raising taxes and raising public spending. This budget that deserves a longer review, and there will be discussions, there will be opportunities for everyone to participate in this debate to be fascinating already in the first important detail, and the devil is in detail. And this is that budget expenditure, so the cost of the state, is higher than in 2008. In 2008, Croatia had some economic growth, some revenue, budget revenues grew, and then consumption was large and difficult to sustain, and we warned of this at the end of 2008 when we proposed the late budget that had experienced three rebalances. And then we also didn't have any amendments, not because we thought the budget was so good that it didn't make sense to fix it, but because we said it was irreparable. And that unfortunately, unfortunately, has shown the experience. Three rebalances, state finance crisis. The countries don't fail easily, so none of them failed this year, none of them fell apart, but the crisis is evident. Croatia is the only Central and Eastern European state, yet not a member of the European Union, yet Minister Shuker cannot be cheaply in debt as he wishes. Croatia is the only country in that single set of countries that can and must compare each other, so the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, etc., which does not foresee any active and radical measures in the 2010 budget and for 2009 as well. Who acts like nothing happened. Among these other countries, and we have studied these cases closely, there are countries that have no euro in the European Union, have not entered the euro zone, have even been on arrangements with the international monetary fund. Croatia is not, for now. There are countries that did not go to these arrangements because they are in a slightly better position, or less, but still had to take serious austerity measures, fiscal adjustments, less consumption. What's Croatia doing? Croatia plans even more public spending for 2010. Bigger. That it's for one kuna, even bigger. What happened in 2009? In 2009, Croatia created, according to everything, 6% less than in 2008. So smaller, empty pockets, less possibilities, less perspective. What are we doing? We spend more. And from where? From where? Why? And that is why the SDP, HNS and IDS proposal is a proposal for a conclusion not to go with the amendments, but to go to temporary financing and to adapt Croatia's legislation to Croatia's reality, because this is no longer possible. He can't go on like this. Here, please, you will deny me during the debate, we probably won't have time for some more detailed debate to see what the countries that are in the European Union are doing, which have come out of socialism, communism, which can be paid cheaper than we do, how they adapt, and what Croatia does, or does not. Not in my backyard, not in my backyard. Well, gentlemen and ladies, it's, it's in our backyard, and we can't go on like this. It's expensive, it's inefficient and it costs life perspectives, careers, the right to search for happiness for those 17 thousand workers who have lost their jobs in the last 6,7 weeks in Croatia, and who, unfortunately, according to all projections will continue to run out of work next year, in the real sector, where, where those nor 800 thousand people eat, dress and feed the rest of Croatia. He can't go on like that. This budget except for the contradiction, I mean with the real state, with the logic that we spend more in the year in which we created 6% less. And I will mention one more thing, there is a visible recovery in most of the major economies of the European Union in the third quarter, even in Italy, Germany, Great Britain of 2%, even 3%. Croatia is not in that category. Croatia is not in that category for a single parameter. Unfortunately not. So you're predicting budget revenues, according to our court, unreal. Unreal. Even if it were to happen, even if the deficit was so low, and to go into the budget deficit conditions of economic downturn and stagnation is something completely different than doing it at a time when you have some growth in the economy. It's just a vital difference. It's a question of survival. So go to this projection of budget revenues, in a situation where you claim to unreally predict 0.5% growth, and all analysts predict stagnation and most declines are not real. We're gonna have to meet again who knows how many times next year and face that fact. That's not real. You, for example. You're predicting a growth in value added tax revenue of 11%. So index 110.5 in the 2010 budget. Let's take a look at those points and see how real they are. So this year we've achieved as little income as VAT. Where'd you get your income from, where did you get that income growth? Do we agree with the fact that a few tens of thousands of people will be out of work? Is this going to be a lack of income in the state register based on taxes, contributions? Will it be a lack of expectations for the consumption of these people who will have nothing to spend because they do not receive wages? These are all realities you don't see here. What about those hidden risks in the budget, as much as we can expect it to be a real deficit in the end, but again, I stress, a deficit in terms of economic subsistence and at best stagnation, you increase state spending, and that doesn't make any countries that we can compare with, because they're all similarly vulnerable. All in a similar way faced with problems, poor competitiveness, weak but rare who with such weak exports as Croatia, and fortunately blessed Croatia whose balance of payments saves tourism. IF there is no tourism, we do not know where we would be today, that there is no tourism in the balance of payments, and that will explain very well to you the Minister of Finance, that there are not several million people from Europe who arrive during the summer in Croatia, but these respected colleagues are not the result of work or of you, or the previous government, or those before that is the positional rent that Croatia brings to God's happiness and you face it. But no country has ever become rich from tourism alone, competitive is Croatia's happiness, it's God's smile and we have to appreciate it, but it's not getting out of the crisis. I believe it's certainly true that faith has brought me into politics, but I believe you're thinking the same thing as I am, is that so, colleagues from Bezovica, we think the same thing. But some of us can say that, and some of us can't, but you're gonna have to fight for that right to say what you're thinking, not just for coffee. These are all facts, and your colleagues from HDZ as well as those who are in the coalition and who will raise their hand for this agreement and take responsibility for this irresponsibleness, please look at what others are doing, watch as they are struggling with the disaster, watch a little bit as they adapt to the problems, see that we do not crash into this unreal consumption as Croatia. How you're going to solve the problem a few dozen more thousands of people unemployed in the real sector and then we can go to the public administration, how we're going to solve this problem, how we're going to solve the fact that it's going to be lagging revenue in the state budget. Are you ready at this point to guarantee, Madam Prime Minister, that this is how the proposed budget, and even so lacking in our court with this deficit, will be feasible and that we won't have to change it, that the deficit won't be even bigger. Are you able to place your signature on that bad budget as well? I say it won't, but if you say it will, say it here in front of us, if you say it's not good, but it will be that way, we can still talk, but I'm not sure you're ready for that. And that's why people aren't real budgets, we won't be able to make it happen. That's why we have to deal with it, and that's why there's no amendments, there weren't any last year, and the colleagues and colleagues made more than 100, and then we sat down in December last year as we remember the budget was late and we said look, the investment banks failed, the Lennon Brothers, the Freddy Mack, the American Deposit Insurance Corporation, the mortgage, we act like we're going to grow by 3%, 2.5% in the next year, there's no point, the budget simply isn't sustainable, and then there's not even one amendment, now it makes any less sense. So, we, I have a need to say once again, in 2009, we fell by probably 6%, and we decided to spend more in 2010, from where, which of you runs your household in this way, I guess most people live on pay, at least the vast majority, who plans home finances in that way, from those poorer to those who have something more that they have gained by their work, by investing, who acts like that. In this way we will not enter Europe, we will enter, but Europe is not a guarantee that with such a policy we will be better. And that's why we're proposing one more thing we can work on, and some countries outside Europe have it, because, as we've seen in crisis conditions, Europe is very flexible when it comes to the budget deficit, then it allows for greater deficits than the convergence criteria, not 3%, but 6% in Germany. But Croatia is not Germany, and it will not go through the situation as Germany and will not have in the third quarter growth as Germany, by nature things will lag behind. Some countries, for example, Brazil have a fiscal responsibility law, just as we know it is called Brazil is not a member of the European Union, but it has made its own rules. And then in this Law of Fiscal Responsibility set strict, not as this budget unfulfilled rules, but strict rules by which we all want to live, by which we raise children, I guess. Not too strict but strictly and clearly, so there are strong fiscal policy parameters for the medium term, so a framework for public debt management is defined, so certain populist criteria are explicitly eliminated from fiscal policy, and this applies to everyone, so one country big in recent years is a very successful state with a very widespread economy, so not all in one basket, with new resources has such a law and is not the only one, there are some other countries, Brazil is the best example. Are we ready for such a law in the Croatian Parliament, to commit to it all future governments, as we are prepared, I guess we are ready to budget after the amendments to the Constitution we are currently working on by qualified majority of MPs, therefore 78, 79, not 39. The SDP proposed this in these amendments to constitutional changes, in the negotiations. Are we ready for such a law? So we suggest the conclusion that this budget is not adopted, that it goes to temporary financing, that public spending is regulated in one smart way, by the laws we proposed during the year, and that is proposed by the SDP, HNS, IDS. Will you accept, we don't know you probably won't, but it would be good to talk about it. With the amendments, we will not bother you, but not for the reasons you wish for, but because we consider this budget unsustainable. And by the end of the month, two days ago, I didn't announce in this House, but I had some new arrests, so they immediately accused me of wanting to arrest. Here I see today in the morning that some people are arrested, these are yesterday's supporters, Danton would say who's next is a little bit like the French Revolution. Robespierre had the nickname "Invulnerable" but Robespierre was really invulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42955	Robespierre was invulnerable but was eventually guillotined. We have a lot of corrections to incorrect allegations, and the one that reported the 9th is late. First it's Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Please comply with Article 209 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42956	I have several incorrect allegations, Mr. President, Madam President. In his apocalyptic speech, Mr Milanovic said a number of incorrect allegations. One of them is where he looked back on the positional rent related to tourism and said we were only God's days. So it's an incorrect quote. You have showered the rivers of tourist workers who are working hard to make the tourist season work. Another incorrect assumption is that we make a relatively large budget, that's correct. But it's not true that it's our fault. In 2000, in 2001 we changed the Constitution and in the amendments to the Constitution you had a majority then in this House, we brought to the budget by relative majority, if I remember correctly. Third, you said it was. ... In the Rules of Procedure, the units of local self-government are brought by an absolute majority. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You also said that expenditures are higher this year than they were last year. It may be nominally so, but you did not mention that one billion kuna goes to interest for the European Union and 432 million kuna for pre-accession funds, which means that last year's expenditures were 118 billion kuna, which is the same this year with an addition of 1.4 billion kuna to the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42957	Thank you. Correction by Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42958	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's Mr. Milanovic thank you for that little historic moment that happened in American history, without it we couldn't discuss today's budget, but it's normal and clear. And I will correct two incorrect allegations. You said one that in your presentation you said that budget expenditures are higher than in 2008 and that Croatia plans even more public spending, which is incorrect. In 2010, both the Prime Minister and the finance minister said and said exactly what is significantly rationalised right in public spending. And the increased cost of not falling total expenditure is related to three important elements. One heard Croatia's adaptation to the accession process to the European Union. The second is co-financing and providing funding for co-financing of pre-accession programmes for which we must provide money so that we can withdraw a certain amount of money. And a third increase in interest costs. And that interest, and I must remind you, this year they come to collect some bonds from 2000, 2002 and 2003 and a significant number of bonds this year. 500, 750m euros, therefore, are significant commitments from previous years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42959	Thank you. Correction Mr. Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42960	I would like to correct the fact that a colleague of Milanovic's alleged unreal assemblings is inconclusive. This unreal kickout, mentioned by counterpart Milanovic, is essentially his vision. And Mr. Milanovic's and SDP's visions have never been true, and that's not exactly true when they mentioned bankruptcy in the country, when they mentioned that the only solution for the state was an arrangement with the IMF. Also, Mr. Milanovic, this is a real budget, for one reason only, because he took the situation, I'm correcting, I'm exactly saying it's real. Correcting, correcting everything. Because he was taken... /The speaker off. /... you asked us if we knew who Hoover was. I'd like to ask you a question. .../The speaker turned off./...the message to you, Mr. Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42961	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Lucic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42962	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of fellow Milanovic, who again reiterates that this budget has no future. We are witnesses that you said the same thing about the 2009 budget, so I am correcting you to my colleague Milanovic, and I would say that you were also saying and wishing that 2009 will come, or the budget that the IMF will need, and I am sure that is how you wish for 2010. So I am correcting your incorrect allegations, because I will only remind you that Croatia is a rare country from transition countries that has called for the help of the IMF, which did not call for the assistance of the IMF. and therefore the 2010 budget certainly has a purpose and has a future. I will remind you only that the crisis is global, not only on the Croatian economic market. So don't talk and underestimate the public, because that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42963	Thank you. Corrections don't need to be reminded, they need to be corrected. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst is correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42964	Thank you very much. So MP Milanovic said incorrectly that the budget is unrealistic. He then cited a series of catastrophic forecasts that would happen in this country, which is not true. I'll remind you that it's not convincing for that reason when we had budget rebalance, then they said we should fire 40,000 workers somewhere. Now they've cut it to 20 grand, and we can expect the next budget to be 10 grand, because they're reducing it. As for also these catastrophic forecasts, they said that without the International Monetary Fund, Croatia cannot go any further, and this government cannot get away with having a financial breakdown. But I have to remind him, and so do the little children, I believe that he should see, that Croatia has gone through the worst part of the recession road and that is exactly the light that shows through this budget. And by the way, as far as this huge unemployment he's worried about, I'm going to remind him that in 2002 and 2003, the government wiped 150 thousand unemployed out of the employment records of the Department of Employment due to administrative errors.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42965	Thank you. At least he'd ask the MPs to mention the word that they're correcting that and that. Thank you. Mr. Josip Djakić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42966	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's what I'm going to say is exactly what I'm correcting. I am correcting my colleague Milanovic's incorrect claim that this budget is unrealistic and inexplicable. It does not stand and is not possible because this budget was created on indicators during the last 2009 when salaries, pensions, maternity benefits, social rights, when half of VAT was paid in the majority of the last year in due time and when everything needed to adapt to the final stage of the needs of the European Union, by Schengen, the judiciary, the information of customs, border crossings, refugees and European statistics, is now included in this budget and realistically shows what can be done with significant reductions in those which are unnecessary and which is not objective. So, objectively, it shows the state that can be reflected in 2010 and done in order to be ready for the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42967	Thank you. Correction Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42968	Thank you, Mr. President. On several occasions, counterpart Milanovic incorrectly stated that this government is acting as if it is not happening in her backyard and is doing nothing. That's not true. On the contrary, the government is responsible for taking action, and in support of this, it says that peacetime payments are paid to all other obligations. The health system is consolidated which is one of the best in world terms in terms of availability and quality. Additional obligations are in place with regard to the accession of the European Union. Of course, this should be done but also the obligations made in the time of 2000, 2002. Let's just say samurai bonds and stuff. Well, I think it's all to be said openly and clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42969	Correction Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42970	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to correct the incorrect indication where it has been found that this budget has increased budget spending. Namely, that's not true, I'll prove it with numbers. So in 2009, we had a budget spending of €119 billion, €371 million, in 2010, amounting to €118 billion, so budget spending. It is therefore a reduction in the budget spending of a billion and 364 million and this nominal increase in the budget relates exclusively to activities and projects related to the adjustment of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union's accession to co-financing of projects under the pre-accession programmes of the European Union and to the growth of interest expenditure. Thus, budget spending has not been increased but has been reduced by a billion and 364 million compared to 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42971	And Mrs. Christmas School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42972	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've already been corrected by my colleague Milinkovic, but I'll add more. The president of the SDP and on behalf of the club Mr Milanovic said that this government is actually acting in making a budget as if it's not happening in Croatia, means in the yard. That's a picturesque quote. But I would remind him that that's exactly what he said this year in 2009 when it went with rebalancing and in fact his finding is absolutely not true because if it was what he says then this government would not regularly pay the salaries that are from the state budget, would not regularly pay pensions, would not be able to pay all the benefits that are born and so on. And also, it wouldn't be possible to actually return the VAT. That's right, Mr. Milanovic. And you're not in the city of Zagreb, you've been in power for ten years and you couldn't make a kindergarten in Brezovica. Here, that's what the Unsullieds tell you, and you can take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42973	Thank you. She asked for the prime minister's word after Mr Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42974	Mr. President, here's a quick one. And then I pray that the minister will take the same short time, so we can use our time. I'll be brief at the beginning and then I'd like to ask the Vice-President of Finance. Of course, we must, of course, manifest ourselves after the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's exhibition on behalf of the club. In this regard, Mr Milanovic's exposure was as if Croatia was the only "thanking" to the country's poor government policy affected by the crisis. So I would like to remind you of the trends related to GDP decline or growth in some European Union countries. Here, I will mention the situation in Germany -5, France -2, Italy -4.7, Austria -3.7, Slovenia -7.4. Of course, if I were to mention other countries like the United States -2.5 or Japan -5.9. Therefore, Croatia is not an island and what happened to Croatia is, among other things, the consequence of the global economic crisis. The other thing I want to say about is the incredible Euroscepticism that proved itself through the exposure on behalf of the SDP club because this club, or Mrss. MPs and gentlemen, absolutely because Mr. Milanovic said that we showed even more consumption in the 2010 budget, did not act, did not accept all the facts that say that we had to further allocate the funds in the amount of 2 billion kuna only for projects related to the completion of Croatia's negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union. So I will repeat the reform and modernisation of the justice system of the 111 million kuna. Does the SDP club think we shouldn't reform the judiciary? Adjustment of the agricultural system 502 million kuna, establishment and management of the Schengen system with 234 million kuna, modernisation and information of customs duties 131 million kuna, construction and equipment of the 82.7 border crossings, speedy disposal of returnees and refugees 648.8 million kuna. Does the SDP club think it should not end the care of exiles and refugees and their return then have to be made clear. In fact, we haven't heard a single proposal out of exposure, not a single concrete proposal for what this budget should look like. The adjustment to the European statistics system is 38.3 and strengthening the administrative capacity of 150 million kuna. Of course, that should include interest and all those obligations that we have and that we have to settle, which we have to pay, that is 3.4 billion kuna in next year's commitment more than we had in this year. So I have to say that we read it in government as Euroscepticism. Of course, after the twisting and grumbling about voting on the arbitration agreement, that is now evident. And finally I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, about the observations about Croatian tourism. I think that the exhibition of Mr Milanovic really in any way humiliated many tourist workers and workers in the Republic of Croatia because nothing came in itself. Both the sun and the sea have all the competitive countries in the environment. Everything, except for Tunisia and Croatia, has been marked by a drastic fall. Why hasn't Croatia recorded a drastic fall? Because in time we made an action plan that was fully implemented because we spent three times as much money on promotion, from 9 million euros to 28 million euros, because we changed the visa regime for some broadcasting countries which, of course, opened the door and because tourist workers connected, means both in the public sector and in the private sector, went to the market and because they worked from morning to tomorrow. That's why we have good results, so let's record this year, which was only less difficult in the nights compared to, I think 1%, compared to last year 2008, which was a record year, ladies and gentlemen. The record tourist year in the Republic of Croatia. And that Mr. Milanovic should know.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42975	Thank you. And Mr. Vice President Shucker, then the corrections.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42976	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's just fascinating how many colleagues want, let me put it this way, to humiliate the discussion of us from the government, says the bookkeeping report. My colleagues and colleagues, if I may say so, because we have all been elected as MPs before and then we are somewhere else, look at the progress report on Croatia's progress towards the European Union and you will see what the European Commission's assessment of public finances is. I don't want to quote it, anyone can read it, and that's what makes me as Minister of Finance the greatest pleasure, and you can call it accounting reports and anything. However, what I have reported is unfortunately several incorrect facts that are not good in the Croatian Parliament. Because look, we're going to be discussing today and everyone has the right to their own opinion and everyone has the right to say what they want, their vision of the budget, and ultimately, it's a good thing that we discuss it that way. However, to say cheaply that we are seeking to borrow cheaply, not to say that in this last borrowing week before Croatia, bonds were issued by Hungary and Latvia, members of the European Union, on far worse terms, under far worse conditions. To say a year ago that Croatia must call for the help of the IMF because there will be a collapse, because this will happen, after a year when none of this has happened, here are some countries that have invited the IMF, nothing has happened to them. Take a look at Hungary, look at neighbouring Serbia, look at neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, and see what were the conditions for the arrival of the International Monetary Fund. Tax raising, the HDZ government, in continuance of the three governments in six years, only raised taxes once last year at the end of the 7th month. However, I also remember here the debate, at that time I was a parliamentary representative, when tax quos were introduced, 60 limes of gasoline for Croatian roads and Croatian highways. It's a kuna and 20 plus VAT, it's a kuna and 44 a liter of gasoline. ... Mrs. Pusic, you'll have a chance to discuss it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you to let me say if it's available, if it's not likely that it's a different concept of democracy then. So no one at the time shouted that it was a hack or that it was like this, that it was like that, but it was simply a means to build Croatian roads and Croatian highways, and also to raise some other taxes. However, to say that today is spent far more than you earn, colleagues and colleagues, we have to look at the year 2003 when it is nominal, I won't talk percentageally, and look...... At that time, when the gross domestic product was lower by about 70, 80 billion deficits of the state budget... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. President, if you can't, Mrs. Pusic can tell me that I can't say I'm gonna move, no problem. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's nice to meet you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's nice to meet you. ... So the government budget deficit at the time was 10 billion and 800. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Today, the deficit of the state budget is 8 billion and 200. ... These are facts you can't escape from. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because if Croatia had stayed at that level, today would have been a public debt of 20 billion and more. Another thing, to say that VAT is 11% increase, you all have a budget ahead of you, and you'll see that it's not 11%, it's 5.4%. And finally, I used to criticise here as an opposition representative, but I always said my own opinion on what should be done. Unfortunately, I didn't hear that because you're just afraid to say what's inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42977	We have four corrections of incorrect allegations. And if I may say, as long as it's actually interesting to throw this debate, it can be tolerated if it doesn't go to another stage that we were looking at here the other day, so here we are going to put up with this stoic thing. The first has a correction to Mr. Gordan Maras' incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42978	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct Mrs. Prime Minister who said she didn't hear any concrete suggestions. That's not true. You have heard a concrete proposal, and the proposal is to vote on temporary funding, bring the necessary laws that will allow real reforms within the public administration, within the state budget and bring a proposal for a new budget after two months. Here's a proposal from the Club of Representatives of the SDP which is the only constructive and only possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42979	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42980	The prime minister says Croatia shares the fate of the crisis with other European Union countries, Croatia is not an island and that is incorrect, I am correcting it. Croatia is an island by the way it reacts to the crisis. Tell me the government of a European country that introduced a crisis tax, tell me one that increased the VAT rate. Tell me a government that treats its citizens as heartlessly as you do. Citizens can't pay back mortgage loans because they're out of a job, because they've lost their wages without houses and without Minister Shucker's flats, so you said I was lying, not to tell the truth. And tell me one government that treats people so recklessly, to its citizens. A government that treats its citizens so recklessly. Croatia is also a sinking island. You're on top of that island.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42981	Thank you. I have mentioned countless times that it should be corrected, but since it is not a practice in this House, the only thing I ask is that we remain within the framework of the uninsult and the jurisdiction of the elemental. If we can do this, and from time to time, we'll mention that it's not a correction to an incorrect quote without the illusion that someone will respect it. And we have a correction to Mr. Representative Damir Cain's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42982	So about this controversy that's been around tourism. The unquestionable fact is that tourism saved Croatia's budget in 2009. If total turnover of around 8 billion euros was achieved somewhere that it would be based on VAT, other state contributions would have revenueed at least 2 billion euros. But it looks paradoxical, but it's true. Croatian tourism saved the European recession. Why? Because guests from the European Union did not travel this year as they used to in the overseas countries, they did not go to a gathering of France, a gathering of Italy, a gathering of Spain, far away from Cyprus, but came to the Adriatic. And that's exactly the kind of space rent that we have to judge objectively because it's the government's merit, I'm not saying she didn't try, but she didn't bring as much as she does. Because if that were the case, then the tourism funding in 2010 would not be reduced. And finally, what all governments have done for tourism since the 1990s here. Well, since the 1990s, gentlemen have not built ten new hotels. Since the 1990s, five new ones have not been built here... That's why we've cracked enough apartments. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42983	Thank you very much. I've got a report here that he's reported for the correction of Mr. Gordan Maras the second time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42984	Yeah, there were two speakers, so I did. I didn't know I had to make the same assumption right. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Minister Shuker who said the State Budget deficit in 2003 was nominally 10 billion kuna, which is incorrect. It was nominally 2 billion and 186 million kunas, or five times less, almost five times less than planned in this budget. So the deficit that the government of Ivica Racan had in three years does not amount to how much this government will make a deficit in 2010 alone. Here's the exact information.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42985	Thank you very much. In short, the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture Mr. Petar Selem called a session at 13.30 p.m., today at the hall "Stepan Radic" 133/1. Thank you. Let's move on. Ms. Vesna Pusic on behalf of the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian People's Party club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42986	I thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister. A relatively short time ago, the prime minister announced radical reforms and radical cuts in public spending by the end of 2009. By the end of 2009, we had a month left. On the other hand, we have a budget that increases by 904 million kuna. And now I can perform different gymnastics to show that it's not like that. In the first row, it increases due to the higher interest, so the more expensive borrowing and the higher interest we have to pay. So the budget has no radical cuts in public spending, no radical reforms but increases. Does this mean that after the new year we will have a new budget, so we will go into a rebalancing that will then include these radical reforms or cuts. Either it gave up radical reforms and cuts of public spending would be good if the government's representatives here explain whether it's one or the other. When asked of all citizens who also have their priorities to save. When taking a hack or a crisis tax in a decent dictionary, then the state must also show that it is able to save. The fundamental problem seen from this budget, which is what the Prime Minister said well at the outset that a strategy or a plan for some economic development should be seen. The fundamental problem that can be read from this budget is that the government is unable to come up with a new and different budget. We, year and year, and you, and we sit here and listen to it, year after year we rewrite the same items, same basic budget concept, same budget approach, and the citizens of this country are getting worse and worse. The government is unable to make a different budget, because in order to address a different budget, of course, an economic strategy, it should also have an economic policy that would then be accurately reflected in a different budget. However, if that is not the case, then what is happening to us is happening to you, but to all of us, we have the same concept of the budget year by year, the same items, and that through that budget only clearly reflects that policies and strategies are not available or that policies and strategies that may not be hidden are not copied into this budget. The prime minister called before the budget came to parliament, she urged lawmakers to propose concrete reductions and increases in the items. The opinion of us at the HNS club is that this is impossible because the whole concept of the budget is wrong. So what has been done by reducing and increasing the items has been done for years in the government's proposal. We at the HNS Club think that in a different way, we need to approach the budget and I'll say something more detailed about it. On the other hand, when we have been so kindly invited, we at the HNS Club call on the government, and these ministers sitting here, given that the growth projection is 0.5% for next year, to specifically state, an item per branch of the economy, whether it is agriculture, tourism, energy, traffic, anything. So the branches of the economy on which they grow next year are based on their assumptions, so the government's guess of growth is 0.5% next year. You can't read this from the budget. Not to read which branches of the economy will be particularly encouraged or for which specific growth is projected to fall from the current over 6% to 0.5% of next year's growth, so I ask the ministers to try to answer where to recognize how we're going to turn one down next year into half a percent of the growth. However, I also believe that it is necessary to expose, if a person considers something wrong, that it is necessary to expose a vision of a different approach, or an idea in which a different way in the opinion of the HNS Club could approach the budget and where, in our opinion, it is the last deadline to approach the budget in this way. In that, at least in that variable part, therefore not a fixed part of the budget, which Minister Schuker says is 13%, the budget should be designed as follows in the opinion of the HNS club. The first step is likely to be for the government to set priorities. Whether the priorities are, I will only give some examples, of course, each government sets its priorities, but possible priorities are to say competitiveness, i.e. increasing the competitiveness of the economy, creating new jobs, protecting the environment, managing natural resources, a number of other energy things, a number of other things that can be listed as priorities of one government. After that step, projects in these areas that the Government itself has identified as priorities are reserved in the budget, but are not shared and prioritized, as is the case in this and all previous budgets. Afterwards, competitions are opened for projects in these areas, and successful projects are being funded. Such projects that the money is given and the priors without knowing what, against what, based on what, if there are elaborate implementations, if there are local permits, if there's anything. There is, at the Ministry of Economy, at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, at the Ministry of Agriculture, at the Ministry of Regional Development and Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, which has somehow disappeared from the radar if you have noticed lately. In these ministries alone, there are over 10 billion projects currently which pre-priority grant funds without any priorities or any kind of competition. It is also evident from this budget that in just one year, the government increased interest by 25% compared to what was the previous year. So it's only 25% this year. Minister Shuker is very proud that he managed to go to America and charge himself at a price of 7%. So compared to what was between 3% and 4%, so the price that shows only where and how we stand. The finance minister says only 13% of the budget is available, i.e. that the funding for development is just that. The rest are fixed costs, so the rest cannot be touched. That's roughly 15 billion kuna. At this rate of negative economic growth, and this rate of borrowing at such high interest for the circus for 4 years will no longer remain kuna for development projects in the Republic of Croatia. And it's really an object to seriously imagine. As for possible and obvious cuts, something formal has been announced and nothing has been done. Maybe a direct question to the new Minister of Drinking. Where's the cutting tax burden on the economy? You talked about it a lot before you became a minister. You considered it necessary. You can't see it in this budget. Second question to the government in general. Where is the clearing up of the situation with over half a million people on the defence lists, including real defenders and Croatian taxpayers? And finally, where is only for illustration, the reform of incentives in agriculture? What happened here is that about 690 to 700 million are being abolished by the incentives of the poorest part of the peasants. I agree that until now it has not been agriculture, but it has been social, but it is precisely because when the incentives of the poorest in agriculture are abolished, so it will not be possible to survive, then it is necessary to open up social programmes that will take care of those people who are so far, I agree incorrectly, taken care of through agriculture. These people have been expelled from agriculture but no social programs have been opened to provide for them, so it also shows the government's position. Finally, in the short and medium term, perhaps the most important one is a specific topic, which will be followed financially by projects funded by the European Funds. Namely, the special theme is the fact that the European Union has adopted its budget with a financial package for the Republic of Croatia. For 2012, the Republic of Croatia must pay about 4.5 billion kuna to the European Union, that is not possible, possibly it is safe. So we're going to have to pay in 2012, that's 609 million euros, to pay for that financial package to the European Union. For that same 2012 The European Union makes around 11.5 billion kuna available to Croatia, for competitiveness, for growth and employment, for the environment and for civil society, freedom and justice. 2013 Croatia will have to pay the European Union a commitment of 5 billion kuna from its budget, and the European Union is making 15 billion kuna available. That 11.5 billion from 2012 and 15 billion in 2013 we can get 0 kuna or that total amount. It may occur to us that we pay more to the European Union than we are able to withdraw from the European Union, we must absorb that money within two years. Questions, why there is no first budget projection for 2013 when we know that 15 billion must be paid in 2013 and we know that we have a financial projection of the European Union and the package by 2013. Where money is foreseen for Croatia's payments, therefore 4.5 billion and 5 billion, where money is foreseen for the absorption of these funds for 25.5.26 billion kuna. Where projects in the listed areas are taxed in the financial package, not just any area, but those areas in which the European Union will open up the possibility of withdrawing funds are taxed. And where is the money for training people who will be able to ensure that Croatia increases potentially 20% of its budget in two years by additional funds from the European Union. That's not supposed to happen, ladies and gentlemen, as if it doesn't exist. Alice in Wonderland. The HNS cannot support such a budget either because of its approach, nor because of its lack of consideration of the essential needs and interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42987	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at 11:37, it's past 10 minutes' notice. Now we've got corrections. First, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42988	Thank you very much. Well, MP Pusic said the Government of the Republic of Croatia could be in debt at a lower interest rate of 7%, but it is not 7% that I am correcting but is 6.7%. I would ask if the government in which she has participated could be in debt and whether any government has ever been in debt below 5%. So this claim is incorrect, so I'd like to hear if the government in which it has been participated is under 5%, as she said this government could currently be in debt and we know what the financial market situation is. As far as the budget is concerned, the budget sets out those items prescribed by law, cannot be determined according to wishes, but those defined by law, so there is no need to seek something beyond that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42989	Thank you. Correction Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42990	Well, here's a little bit of math to go on, a little bit of interest. Well, my colleague said there was an increase in interest on borrowing by 25%, and she said it was 3% or 4%. Let's take 4%, of 25%, 4% is 1%, so we'd get to 5 so please when someone writes texts to explain to you what the second correction is, then I have to say that the crisis tax is definitely not a hack, they've introduced tax and other countries. And as for the warlord himself, the Turks ruled these premises for 500 years, left a number of offspring, and no one resents speaking the language of their fathers. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42991	Thank you. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. No one's appointed to that, whose father. Secondly, it takes tolerance, and with regard to the mention of Mr Markovanovic, I did not notice that it is called so in the Constitutional Court judgment, so I hope that, apart from our decision, we will respect the Croatian Parliament, we must especially respect and accept the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Well, when we don't get a match, it is. Come on in, Mrs. Ivanka Roxandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42992	Thank you, Mr. President. MP Pusic would like to point out that this budget has not done radical cuts to public spending, she said several times, so I have to fix it. It's incorrect. It is precisely material expenditures that remain in all the Ministries of Col. Pusic at the level of 2009 and have been significantly reduced somewhere. I must tell you that in order to precisely rationalise and cut the consumption of the subsidy, which you often mention is not necessary for the railway, the shipbuilding has been reduced for agriculture 1 billion kuna, but not for agriculture as you say would be affected by the poorest, but as a result of the change in agricultural policy and the approximation of the European Union. We want to get close, just a few times you discussed when there was a report from the National Committee, that we want to get close to exactly the subsidies that the countries of the European Union have.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42993	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Stjepan Milnković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42994	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Pusic said the government is unable to draft a new and different budget. That's not true. It was addressed, of course, in accordance with the new Budget Act, which entered on January 1st of this year and which introduced a certain newspaper, which is one of strategic planning, to develop a three-year strategy so that the strategic priorities of government policy can be affected, and priorities are quite specific. And pay pensions regularly and repay debt and regular and good protection that is at an enviable level. But, of course, the social benefits that you didn't mention to the farmers. Of course, farmers now make certain categories, certain social incomes. They don't live in another country. So, under these circumstances, and thank God are such circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42995	Thank you. And I suggest a small contribution so we can save some time. Let's just say you don't have to say thank you, Mr. President, for giving me your word. That's unnecessary. It just starts talking and it's over. As far as that goes, if it can be a small contribution. Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Dairy Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42996	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the vice presidents, ministers, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. In 2010, it will certainly be one key year. I dare tell our being or not to be. If this projection is achieved, Croatian citizens may not be hungry. If this budget is not achieved in these frameworks, there will be plenty. There is only one thing left out, whether the Croatian economy will survive. Clearly, those 1.5% compared to 2009 are de facto 2% less than 2009. Why? For inflation. But yet one, two, three percent doesn't matter, it's important how the state intends to receive 119 billion kunas that should be spent next year. I say it's simply impossible. It's possible. How is that possible? But only with extra taxes. Which one? I claim that we are following the elimination of the zero VAT rate on bread, on milk, on children's supplies, on medicines. And I'd like the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Economy to tell us whether they're doing it or whether it's really heading. Whether to eliminate VAT zero rates on bread, on milk, on children’s supplies, or medicines. Only in this case can the revenue of the 2010 budget be equal to the revenue of this year's budget. How can it be calculated that tax revenue will be 8.5% higher than this year, and on the other hand we see our purchasing power dropping, consumption dropping, trade turnover dropping 15.6% compared to the same period of 2009, employment dropping, industrial production dropping minus 9.6%, export decline, imports etc. What I'm sure is growing is what we see. It's a church separation. The bishops are not ready to give up in a crisis. On the other hand, the presidential candidates are too high to raise that bar that no bishops would ever skip. Here's how individuals get arrested for doing it. That's all right, let's go that way. But here's an example. one Vuksic, who made a pair of sequins o.k., and those who dug and dug up half of Croatia are protected as bears. It means to arrest yes, but in some order. How can it be calculated that VAT and consumption tax revenues will be 10.9%. Income from VAT 5.4%, from VAT, on consumption of 10.9%. And on the other hand, our imports fall by 30%, exports by 30%, etc. Let's just not play with those numbers and let's just tell people what's next. How can it be expected that the budget will grow if it is out of work only in 2009 or that there will be 50,000 people left. How can it be expected that staff expenditures will grow 0.6%, and in 2010, we will also have minus 50,000 public sector employees expenditures will grow, and in this private sector we see that people will fight for naked survival. In early 2009, we had about 1 million and 600,000 insurance companies. Today there are under a million 570 thousand. In early 2009, the proportion of the worker-retired was 1.4 to 1, today is 1.35 workers versus one pensioner. We retire from 29 years of internships on average. We have 73,000 pensioners under 49. If we had all the unemployed, we would have a 1.8-to-one ratio, and that's why full-employment policy has to be our policy, whether it's our policy or not. Can Croatia employ 100,000 workers over the next five years? Can we have so many more employees? We can. But what do we have to do? We need to attract the relevant capital. Neither can we as citizens always be against everything. From 2000 to today, we refused 6.7 billion euros in foreign investment. In this way we simply lost 60 to 70,000 jobs, and today I have the impression that the capital outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia is waiting for Croatia to collapse and only then to come. And that's our destiny. We have said all the most beautiful land in the world. Legend has it that God kept for himself, so he gave it to the Croats. But here's how we take her. It's just everything being questioned. For example. The external debt in 2000 was 10 billion euros, today it is 42.5 billion euros. In 2000, less than one billion euros were charged with interest clearly, and today or next year 9.6 billion euros are due back. In 2009, we have unemployment as in 2000, industrial production less than 2000. Today we have a decline in gross social product at an annual level of at least minus 6% and those of the '99 war. Why war on the SR Yugoslavia by NATO, the lost tourist season, the GDP has fallen minus 1.7%, which will say that all political economic elites have not done their job properly. Neither the Parliament, nor the government, nor the ministries, nor the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, nor employers, nor anyone. And it's time for one complete, complete turn. What do you do? To fight simply for every job because it is safe and best how social policy, policy to the old, policy to the young because the one who does this is not a social case. Why is that the best policy of the old? Not for them to work, but for their children to be busy, so they don't have to be cared for. The best policy towards youth is also a full-time policy. Why? So I can start my own home, my family, etc. The only county with which industry is the first economic branch, just before we spoke in tourism was Istrian employment in the 90s when 75 thousand today, exports in the 90s were 250 million dollars, last year was a billion 350 million dollars, unemployment rates as the 1990s. And if it's hard, it's going to be more flowing, and it's going to be hard. So if it's down there, then I can think that it's only elsewhere in the Republic of Croatia, mostly when tomorrow, for example, through the incentives, we take 700 million kunas or 696 to be precise so that no one can correct me. This budget is a big delusion because it cannot be greater by 1.5% if the trend of job cuts continues and without introducing new taxes, or to abolish those zeros on bread, milk, children's supplies, etc. This budget is a big conjecture because taxes can't be higher if public spending is smaller without new taxes. And finally, this budget is a hoax because it doesn't count on a drop in contributions, a drop in investments, etc. But it's a hoax, and because all the local budgets in this country are going down -10, -15, -20, -30% and the only government budget is growing by +1.5% and then normally give me gentlemen tell me or tell us how it's possible. Contributions should bring -1.1% and certainly will be -3%. We're going to have a serious social coup in the presidential election. Maybe we'll have an early election. Before the season, we will certainly have one serious rebalancing after the season, most likely another. Even for the tourism that saved us this year's budget, we have less money this year than it was in 2009. Just don't do it. Is it possible to change some things, in one year not, in two difficult, in one election cycle sure that and perhaps it would be some way to consider acquiring an electoral legitimacy through new elections. What did I say in 2008, 10.12.? I read or quote my phonogram. For the 2008 budget, I said that the whole system from the social to the salary that was being built in 2007 had one time bomb in it and all that stands today. If there is a change of government to the burden of new authorities and this is in some way the cowardly egg inherited by the old new government but something worse happened, what it could not influence is that the global crisis for which Croatia is not ready again for the government's merits, etc. Now I can paraphrasise the thought that it'll be worse than better. On the other hand, how do you define this budget? Here's the first time anyone's said developmental, social, etc. Let's look into each other's eyes and admit it to each other and see this budget is to survive until the local elections in May 2009. What happens after May 2009 is that nobody knows or anyone here can predict it today. In 2008, no, now we see that the former prime minister is gone. After that, we will have certain rebalancing and until then we need to ensure social peace, etc. The world of what is the same gentlemen is experiencing an economic lift, America +3.5%, old Europe +0.8% and Croatia is afraid of even deeper problems. Why? Because our export economy structure is pre-break. It's not our problem I'd say even external debt. At this point, it's a far bigger problem for us how to find foreign exchanges, how, where. On the revenue side of these foreign exchanges through exports, through tourism, credits, asset sales, our employees' accounts come up to 30 billion and on the other hand, the principal's payments, interest payments, imports there are somewhere around $33 billion. I agree that 87% of the budget is set but I would now say only one thing higher and higher shipbuilding that will get 180 million kuna less, railway subsidies 125 million kuna less and every other day we have a train with no idea how many wagons pop them up these railroads, rails, etc. Croatia has no replacement for shipbuilding and shipbuilding should try to save. The truth of 10 billion kunas of support in last year's 8.3 billion kunas received shipbuilding and transport and agriculture while the rest of the industry received only 1.7 billion kuna. Every employee in 2007, through support, paid 5 000 kuna in the industry. The shipbuilding job through support received 227 thousand kuna, in agriculture 93 thousand kuna. However, the bankruptcy of the smugglers would be far more expensive than the recovery, and it has to be avoided because it may in some way be able to pull the whole state back. What do you do? It's clear that we can no longer go into corrections of the value of the kuna but that strong kuna has ruined exports, stimulated all the time one dare say absurd imports. How to Help Agriculture? So let's say VAT on food produced in Croatia pays 10% and not 23%. That way we might keep people in our store, not go shopping across the border furniture, textiles, it's all ruined. There should be clearly through banks that require Croatia to boost public consumption, tourism which has also been overrated by kuna, VAT not to speak etc. But I'm afraid some branches, at this point I'm thinking about shipbuilding are knowingly sacrificed and the rest of the replacement industry for the same simply doesn't have one. Now, for the end of one sentence, how much money through capital investment goes towards the County of Istrian. If I'm not mistaken for only 68 million kuna, exactly 68 million 884 thousand 483 kuna, according to the Primorje-Gorski County, a little more than 411 million kuna, but it's all insufficient, a little bit, almost ridiculous, but I agree that this budget is either a budget of which or a nation will survive, the economy will survive, or everything will just go to hell. All in all, it is clear that we would be far happier to go with temporary funding, and then in three, four places if a consensus is reached to try to offer something that could satisfy all the factors in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42997	Thank you. Seven corrections. First, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42998	So Agent Cain said one incorrect fact, that today unemployment is like 2000. I'll remind him that in 2000, the average unemployment rate was around 400 thousand unemployed, and somewhere on average it was 360 thousand, so it's not the same. And I'll remind him that just in '99. In 2000, the inherited unemployment was 320 thousand. As far as that unemployment is concerned, I believe you know how big it is today, I don't have to share that information. That's the wrong information you said. And secondly, it would also be good if in 2000 you mentioned so much that you said that there were 900 thousand pensioners at the time with an average pension of 1500 kuna, 130 thousand persons on social aid, 750 thousand workers below 3800 kuna salary, 80 thousand workers who did not receive regular salary, etc., to not go to 2002.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u42999	Ms. zastica Bozica Šolić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43000	Thank you very much. Mr. Caine, you said in your debate that the bishops would not give up anything. That is simply not true, for you well know that the church has always been with its Catholic people and has given up 50 million kunas first. I am sure that the church will continue to work so hard, because it is with its people, and it is very difficult for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43001	Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43002	Comrade Caine, you have shown that unemployment is currently at the level of 2000. No matter what colleague Kunst corrected that information, but I will supplement it explicitly. The average unemployment in 2000 was 357 872, 357 thousand and 872. The average unemployment rate until the 9th month of this year was 256 thousand 394. That's more than 101 thousand kuna. That's why I'm correcting you, 'cause they're way too much data. ... Unemployed 256 thousand and 394. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43003	But according to this methodology today, there'd be more of them than there were back then, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43004	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43005	A respected colleague said the Republic of Croatia's 2010 budget is growing. If he had listened carefully to the opening words of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Vice-President of the Government then he would have heard, and I think the public should know that the nominal budget for 2010 is less than the 2009 budget for the reasons that the proposings made, which is that the expenditure side of this budget is growing because of the increased commitments that the Republic of Croatia has due to the accession of the European Union by 3 million 432 000, billion, 200 million kuna, of which the adjustment of 2 million kuna, co-financing of projects, 4 billion sorry, co-financing of projects under the pre-accession programmes of the European Union 432.2 million kuna and increased interest costs of billions of kuna. Comrade Cain, the nominal budget for 2010 of the Republic of Croatia is lower than the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43006	Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43007	Thank you. So counterpart Cain said that all countries recorded growth and economic recovery compared to Croatia. I have here the autumn macroeconomic projections of the European Union and that says something completely different. For example, Germany -5% in 2009, projection 2009. 1,2 and 2011 1.7. So, and so is all of these countries and France, Italy, Slovenia, therefore, are mostly worse projections than in Croatia. And what do you expect from the candidates who say...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43008	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43009	That half the presidential candidates should be arrested. I invite him to explain why. However irresponsiblely he makes such statements...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43010	All right, now, let's not have a presidential election in this butig. Mr. Agent Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43011	Well, here's an esteemed colleague of Caine's mentions and compares, so that's exactly what a colleague did, so I'd look back at this part of the shipbuilding part. It's nice to talk to the position that it should be saved and kept, but the fact is that Mr. Cain performs several times and never mentions another, let's say the wood industry so it has the same number of employees as shipbuilding. And then what needs to be corrected here in particular, the world didn't start now, Mr. Caine, as far as Istria goes and as much as Istria gives. Well, that development didn't begin, so that development of the hotel, tourism started long ago. Get some economic textbooks, even if they... So you'll see that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That development that you worship others, so it can't be mentioned like that, we came to that level, and we're giving it to you now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're completely wrong to say that, it doesn't come from any scientific research that you're talking about here from an economic level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43012	And Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43013	Well, here's a few things I need to make up for. Number one, he claims, colleague Cain says the budget is a hoax. I don't know what delusion. The numbers are rare when he cheats, but I remember his words a year ago and two years ago and three years ago, they're always the same. Second of all, fellow... Thank you, colleague Pusic, for your democracy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Secondly, a fellow says there will be early elections. It's happening again. I'm only sorry, it won't be without worry, I'm only sorry that for many reasons it wasn't an early presidential election. One of the reasons is that you should wait less.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43014	HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43015	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Mr. Minister. Here today there were also historical topics in connection with the budget from the economic crisis in '29, '32. In the United States. There have been other mentions of history and historical figures from Churchill, Hoover, etc., and as far as that goes, once upon a time some 150 years ago, the Minister of Economy or Finance of the Kingdom of Montenegro asked his bishop how to make a budget, because the country, or people, is in very difficult shape. And the recommendation of the bishop was who had more, and who didn't have anything. So this budget here I was talking about during the rebalancing when it was still the fugitive Prime Minister Sanader, so the first rebalancing, said that Slavonia would go through these rebalances, and here's a new 2010 budget with a projection and description for 2011 and 2012. And here's the information that for our agriculture, incentives and other support is a reduction of 690 million kuna. This is what is actually planned in the transition of these ordinary incentives to structural support when joining the European Union. Furthermore, the Regional Development Act that we adopted 5, 6 months ago also affected mountainous and mountainous areas and municipalities and units of local and regional self-government that are of particular state concern, i.e. an increase in tax burdens, and a reduction in actually, a reduction in donation. In fact, these municipalities, which are large and large in Slavonia and Baranja and our Croatian part of Srijem, come in fact all together in a worse position, and the whole Slavonia and Baranja, together with farmers, come in a very, very difficult position which is now as someone has called here our peasant social case, and now is actually becoming a real social direction. I've reviewed the opinion of all the committees who discussed the budget here. Only one committee has come unanimously, supported unanimously, so for an opinion on this budget. All the other committees were therefore with opinions for, abstention or against. And that's saying something. In the opening part of this act, the documents most important to the state, so the budget of the Republic of Croatia is clearly written that 87% of the budget is set and only 15, about 15 billion kuna, which someone said roughly to say remains for possibly some investment, economic activity, retaining old jobs and opening new jobs, which should actually be the goal and should be the goal of all the governments of the Republic of Croatia, but obviously for these purposes this figure that I was talking about is too small. And in fact, I don't think there's any willingness to be bigger or something different to form a cliché, or a mold that counts and makes this budget. You see, I often state as an example that the catastrophic import policy that the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance are killing customs, excise duties, taxes, which, then on food import products, is between $4 billion and $5 billion, are actually damaging, I would almost say, disabling or killing domestic agricultural production. Well, then, because of that $4.5 billion greasy steak, we actually have the depletion of Croatian agricultural production, which we were talking about here yesterday in this House. I have a document here that I saw at the session of the last county assembly of Brod-Posavina County. In which it is spoken and written about activities within the NUC 2 region of Pannonian Croatia. It is the famous statistical region that includes 5 Slavonian counties, and those 3 let's say central Croatia Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac County. This is the NUC region offered to Europe as a statistical region, I don't know how those who don't like the name Slavonia and Baranja say NUC region Pannonia Croatia. And in this document of the regional development of Pannonian Croatia, he said very often he liked to say the former prime minister, clearly indicated development programmes that would bring that region, strengthened it so that it would also withdraw all of Croatia, to be a locomotive of development. Unfortunately, not a single budget I've seen in the past two years, not a rebalancing, that's not what he's taken care of. So he says, the next list of priorities of the region, agriculture, forestry, hunting and freshwater fisheries, the development of agricultural and food-processing capacities and the creation of the region's single market has been agreed. Where is it? We're a long way from that. So the development of agriculture in protected areas and organic agriculture. Regional infrastructure mentions road and rail infrastructure and waterways, the cheapest way of transport and transport. And not to mention further, increasing the competitiveness of the Pannonian region economy, environmental protection, etc. Of all that, as I said in the introduction, give him more, and who doesn't have give him anything. So this time Slavonia also passed, except that I see in the budget the rails are bound by the modernisation of the railway, the Tovarnik, so our border crossing of the Vinkovci railways. In the length of it all, I think it's about 30 kilometers and nothing more. Road, fast road Caglin, Našice – Caglin, Požega – Pleternica – The boat can only be talked about, only in stages. Well, I guess when there's money, then that road will be modernised to the end and in all stages. This is where the property tax was talked about today. As Mršić said, not about the property tax, but about the property tax, the property that is really in some can be expressed in enormous values if we turn their property into a financial effect and I really don't understand if it is, and we're a capitalist country, if such a thing is taxed in other countries of the West, what we are, or has been determined by the elite to pay for how someone said those 500 kunas for their massive property and property. It has also been said that I am talking about the need for a change in tax policy. There was also talk of how many public and how many civil servants, public administrations, and so state services. Public service, so 165,000 employees. These are health care, education, higher education, etc. But no one said that the last few months I would say that and in these services mass-received, they're mass-received to say people by the principle of nepotism, clientelism, etc. I also have examples from Slavonski Brod where 13 employees or 13 professors are suddenly accepted in one school. It's weird that last year, so 13 of them didn't retire so they could switch. No, I don't. Furthermore, you see and are now talking about the creation of an agency that would manage public procurement centralised so at the level of all Croatia. New agency again. How many government offices do we have? How many jobs do we have? How many public administrations do we have? How many agencies, institutions, chambers, and how many employees we have in those departments. And believe me, there's also a fear for it, because it's being debated, because it's also being said in public that the administration is really piled up, firing. And in conversation with some, I got the assurance that even a linear wage reduction, and staying at work in a high percentage of these people still satisfied because they are aware, people are aware of the situation in which the state is. And I said half a year ago that she's in front of bankruptcy like she is. We're just not gonna say it out loud, we're gonna whisper it. How much money Mr. Minister has on corruption affairs that are already being spoken of publicly and written, we don't need to keep secret. Here's the latest in "The Voice of Slavonia" we're reading that the Post Office has damaged itself by 400 million kuna for giving unfavourable loans to its own account, and then on HAC, then on HEP, so on, wherever the cost goes, unnecessary precisely through these, this Public Procurement Act and the Public-private Partnership, in a way or you want a cave, a pit until we get to this. If we had all those funds that went that way, believe me, there would be no deficit in the state budget of nine billion kunas. I'm totally convinced of that. But unfortunately, we must be in charge of nine billion kunas somewhere. Why not the IMF? Well, because the IMF is looking for a transparent spending of money and a clear dedicated spending of money, and obviously that's not exactly what we can do in this government. And that's the problem. These are problems, which is why the HDSSB won't support this budget, because we think the same thing as some here that we'll soon be in rebalancing, so maybe what someone says in the new elections. I will not talk about it, and it will propose more than 50 amendments to Slavonia and Baranja on this budget, and you will refuse these amendments as usual. Let it be heard, let it be known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43016	Thank you. Five corrections. First Mrs. Representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43017	A colleague presented a series of incorrect allegations. I'll make it right for the others to get a chance. So like this, a colleague said that, he said, I quote, "A peasant social case and social rights." In a country where there are extremely high incentives and subsidies for agriculture, you have offended a valuable Slavonian man, a farmer who has never been in a democratic Croatian state or will be a social case of whatever social rights you call him. And since you already have a problem with your colleague being called the Pannonian Croatia, I'm surprised that you are quoting in this High House the Montenegrin bishop, not the Bible, because then I realized. The Montenegrin bishop knew the Bible, and an expression of who had it will be given to him, and whoever had it will be taken away from him you do not know each other because you do not even know the Bible, and you have not yet figured out the reasons that this statement means.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43018	Second correction, Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43019	Well, here's a colleague... A law on regional development and says the law will put Slavonia in a more unfavourable position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's completely wrong for a colleague. This law will not put Slavonia in a more unfavourable position, because you tried to tie it to the Hill and Mountain Law, because, of course, that law for those living in extreme conditions gave the difference in income tax. Therefore, the Regional Development Act, as far as I understand it, will enable it to not be determined by height, so let's say that Buzet from Mr. Caine could not come among the 42 local communities, but rather, according to the indicators, will determine what kind of scale this rock will be, who should be given it. I think you've misread it and it doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43020	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43021	Therefore, pursuant to Article 209(1) of the basic The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are actually replicas, and in particular the replica of Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić because I did not speak about the church or the Bible, and she does not know or go there. So, it's groundless that she's talking and a colleague of hers from HDZ, I don't know her name.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43022	No, it's a correction to a quote like the corrections of all MPs and MPs in such a way as to correct it. Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43023	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's Mr. Grubisic again also says that Slavonian Countys have been cut off which is really not true, and I think it's important that Mr. Grubisic take a look at the budget and see not only the budget but everything that is obtained from other funds in order to have a concrete picture. Then you'll see, and that's what the press looked at and wrote that all Slavonian counties would get more funding. Therefore, look at the full budget and not just sometimes some item and then talk about it in one negative context in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43024	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43025	Again, Article 209. Majdenic tries to insinuate in his exhibition, namely Slavonska County, because they are the last of the gross social product and fiscal capacity in the Republic of Croatia and you will not say that, and that is the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43026	It is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representative Grubisic, I give you a warning about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure you are inadmissiblely misusing the Rules of Procedure. MP Dragan Kovacevic rectification.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43027	Thank you very much. Namely, I share the same as my colleague, Dr. Grubisic's concern, an interest in agriculture, but it should be said that it is not true that the allocations for agriculture are lower by 695 kuna, namely if only that item is observed then that would be true, so these direct sectoral support. However, the government has provided a domestic component for the withdrawal of 750 million kuna from the European Union funds and we have just yesterday at the debate said that we all agree that they are not good capital support where they were received at 50% of the amount... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43028	Thank you. And Mr. Zoran Vinkovic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43029	I don't know about the warning, I hope I don't get it, obviously you're reading some other newspaper from my colleague Grubisic. If you have read “The Voice of Slavonia” you could see Slavonia 0 Kuna, Clinical Hospital Osijek...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43030	What are you correcting, Mr. Grubisic? Give an indication that you are correcting representative Grubisic. You have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43031	You'll take my time again. Then allow me time. I'm correcting his allegations that Slavonia was neglected. Slavonia was not neglected but beaten. Clinical Hospital Osijek 0 Kuna, Djakovačka nadivanje 0 Kuna, has now been the finding of health inspection although money from the state budget has been sought for two years. There are also 0 kunas for your promised and our project of Đakovsky University of the Ministry of Health, as well as this law on the financing of local self-government creates a new centralization of all units of local self-government. Where HDZ was now over-indebted. And now those of us who came after these elections have to pay those bills. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43032	counterpart Vinkovic, representative Grubisic did not claim this, so you cannot correct it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43033	I just backed it up with these examples, what's going on with Slavonia today, and we'll see agriculture in the spring, if then someone's going to climb the tractors in front of those farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43034	You can't fix it, so you're still nice to congratulate each other on how.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43035	We are fighting for Slavonia but we are also fighting for Croatia because this budget is inconclusive, which Dorothy in the Wizard of Oz would see.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43036	Okay. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go. All right, just one moment, I'd like to ask Mr. Agent Vinkovic to take his word for all of us. Does the SDP Club want to add anything to this, support this performance? So, you're getting along fine. Hey, Mil, come on in. Would you be so kind as to continue? I'd appreciate it, but unfortunately, there's a little technical problem with that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43037	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State, thank you and colleague Vinkovic for giving me the opportunity to say what I planned. So, this projection of the 2010 Budget is obviously such that it will probably be dissatisfied with many, it will be dissatisfied with the clear people of the opposition, which is quite legitimate, there will be a dissatisfaction with the group of employers, it will certainly be dissatisfied farmers, social partners certainly, so it will probably be dissatisfied with some ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is quite normal, when reading out the items in the budget and when it is seen that most of the positions are reduced. And that's our reality, that's our condition on today, and with that condition, we're making budget projections. We in the Independent Democratic Serb Party are fully aware that this projection in its construction has been determined by a series of external factors, as well as certain internal needs. How do we look at it? For us, these external factors, factors that cannot be affected because they are mainly the financial obligations of the state towards external investors, banks, funds etc. And about these internal needs we have some kind of vision and let me say it in four ways. First, the first need for an internal one would be the need for serious austerity measures in all the institutions of the system. That's not what I'm saying, I'm not saying some kind of flosscule, but I really think that from next fiscal year, we need to get into serious system analysis, all of his problems, all of his privileges in that system, and go into the forms of savings seriously, and not in a way that saves itself by paying for parking. Savings are certainly needed in projects, but unfortunately we know that this is not popular but this moment is also needed in investment. The other thing we see as a need is keeping the budget from the impact of corruption that comes especially from public companies. It is visible what is happening, and it has been shown that these public companies are the fertile soil for the corrupt behaviour of all forms and all dimensions. The third is a lot of what is said here, and that is certainly the need to be transposed or otherwise defined and set subsidies to agriculture and shipbuilding subsidies. It has been shown that the shipyards in addition to the large subsidies that counterpart Cain said here in terms of collapse, that they are getting closer to bankruptcy, but it is also a fact that someone in this series of shipbuilding cooperatives is doing well to continue to exist well. As far as agriculture is concerned, agriculture and unfortunately our village is stagnating despite all the funds invested through capital investments, through subsidies institutes, support, etc. At the same time, the country's major owners, the food market monopolists, are enormously strengthened. So there's something wrong with this whole thing. In any case, we also respect the fact presented to us in showing the projection of the budget, that the European Union, in this sense, also gives us certain instructive limits that we must adhere to, whether this is our right or not. And we finally think that it was necessary to allocate large financial resources for integration processes and to prepare funds when entering the European Union. It is clear that the high allocations for these things are the price of joining the European Union, for which we have made an imperial decision. And in any case, it encourages the fact that the government is clearly prepared to pay such a high price for this budget and pay. So for us, these are some general frameworks that we consider to be some sort of quantifiers in determining the basic budget. What is particularly important to us, what is important to the SDSS is that this budget corrects the bad situation of the previous last rebalancing. In this previous rebalancing project has almost stopped the reconstruction of houses, residential care and the completion of the electrification of the remaining villages without electricity in the Republic of Croatia. The current budget projection, what we are presented, these projects are finally and after so many years defined as projects of importance for the Republic of Croatia both at priority level and at various commitments to close chapter 23. This is something that we are looking forward to, it's something we've been waiting for for a long time. We hope that the amount of funds foreseen in the 2010 budget for this purpose is sufficient to finally restore the remaining parts of the destroyed objects and thus say that there is a light in 15 remaining villages that have so far been without electricity as an existential element and especially in return environments. Finally, these projects will be completely completed for us in the right sense when these users are able to buy out assigned housing units, so that these people in this content and this content are equal citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The second thing that is particularly important to us is the belief that the government is aware of the need to bring forward all documents that will define regional development and regional development strategy. I say this first of all because units of local self-government would be strengthened and stimulated to such an extent that they could be the basic instruments of regional and local development. Without such a balanced empowerment of local self-government units, we think it's too early to talk about the reconstruction of local self-government units itself. We think that first of all we need to give at least equal chances to all units of local self-government especially in the area of special state care, and then we need to talk about whether we're ready for some kind of crossover of our local self-government system. In the end, I will say that this budget, with all that we have said, with all the good intentions and the desire for it to exist, will be difficult to sustain without the implementation of structural reforms that are waiting for us in the coming year. We think that next year procedures are needed in the state administration, in the pension system, in the tax system, we think it is necessary to strengthen the labour market, we think it is necessary to create a minimum of healthy businesses. And only when these ways are done, when these cuts in this social sector and the public administration are done, which will certainly not be easy and will not be without political consequences, this budget as proposed has a chance to exist. If there is a need for help or any suggestions in implementing these reforms, in any case, we of the SDSS Club will not hesitate to make such assistance and such a contribution to the implementation of these reforms. Besides, as we did in all previous situations when it was of general interest to the Republic of Croatia. For all these reasons I said, the SSDS Club will support the 2010 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43038	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43039	Mr. Representative said that with this budget, as far as I understand, we are seeking the European Union. But how to strive for the European Union when in the 21st century we close the birthplace in a town of 32 thousand people with suburban settlements, when we don't agree to the opening of the university.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43040	Comrade Vinkovic, please be kind, such a claim was not made by Mr. Representative Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43041	He didn't say that we were seeking the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43042	He hasn't made a claim that a birthplace is closing, and you're contesting it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43043	Look, I'm talking about a budget that seeks the European Union. And I say that this budget does not tend to the European Union and that I support examples. Now let me have the 30 more seconds you took away from me because the red light's on. The second thing, as regards this assistance to units of special care, is that I claim to be responsible and that this direct assistance goes to those units that require the votes of national minorities. That's all. And in the next steps, I'll say something extra.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43044	Okay. But secondly, all of this should be done when you speak through form or replicas or through form of direct speech through corrections. ... Where's the TV feed off? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's going normal, someone misinformed you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's your TV feed. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, but it's not on the first, it's on the second. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Representative Goran Maric's Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43045	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the state budget is a synthetic expression of the total state revenue and expenditure in one fiscal year which forms the basis for fiscal policymaking, which together with the central bank's monetary policy, makes and should be complementary to the entire economic policy of a country which intervenes or affects the country's economy through the state. This proposal for a national budget for 2010 is adopted under extremely difficult circumstances. After the world’s major crises in 1720, the whole world and Croatia also hit another one with the consequences of the most devastating economic crisis in mankind’s history. The proposed budget is the result and the consequences of the long-term accumulated structural economic problems that culminated precisely in this crisis time. Of course, the state budget is an ideal political topic, an ideal opportunity for conflicting and political and professional thinking, but it should be said that a large part of today's economic problems if it has fallen to today's government also has causes in earlier years when no time of conukture has been used optimally. Starting from the time of the introduction of the VAT when no significant difference was used rationally and efficiently and the high potential of surplus income over expenditures and not from the time of the beginning of 2000 when the cash mass grew to 30% annually but when it was spent irrationally, uncontrollably imported and the majority slowed down to the capital market. At that time, many have come to an end with a solution to the indifference. And what this huge liquidity ended up being wrong in consumption, which the strong financial leverage only used by the service and non-productive sector was not even used on the theoretical and let alone the practical level of opposing it. For example, in 2003, business banks totalled more than the entire economy and all companies, and this went even without any comment from any responsible person, individual or institution. Even this phenomenon passed without comment and those who oversee the phenomenon and who first perceive the phenomenon. There were also issues here due to a lack of budget projection for 2013. This proposal for a national budget for 2010 and with projections for 2011 and 2012 was drawn up in accordance with the State Budget Act, which entered into force on 1.1 this year so that it does not predict that year 13 in projections. But given that the 2010 State Budget proposal is at three levels and projections for the next two years can be said with certainty that this is the most transparent and technically best prepared proposal. The planned total revenue in 2010 totalling €112.8 billion increased by 1.5% compared to the previous year and the largest part in the total planned revenue revenues on contributions planned in the amount of €40.3 billion and VAT totalling €38.8 billion. Due to the changed macroeconomic opportunities, less income from profit tax was planned in 2010, amounting to €8.3 billion which is slightly lower than the planned income from the 2008 profit tax. We have heard a lot here on the subject that the state budget should also provide for income from the property tax, but it should be pointed out that although there is no item called the property tax, yet the Republic of Croatia collects, or units of local self-government taxes which by nature are property taxes. How else to classify the communal fee, how to classify the tax on the company, how to tax on road vehicles, the taxes on vessels, and all of this total revenue in 2008 from those taxes 5.9 billion kuna, which is more than 2 and a half billion kuna compared to three, four years ago, or five years ago. At that time, five years ago, in 2004, the share of the property tax in the total gross domestic product was 1.4% and bottom 1.7%. The total expenditure of the State budget for 2010 is 121 billion and 400 million kuna, which is 0.8% higher in 2009 and 940 million kuna, respectively. But it is important to stress that budget spending is still decreasing due to three fundamental elements. This is due to the cost of adapting the Republic of Croatia to the EU accession process by 2 billion kuna, due to the co-financing of projects under the pre-accession European Union programmes of 432.2 million kuna and the increased cost of interest for €1 billion. Out of the total operating expenditure in 2010, the largest share relates to the remuneration of citizens and households totalling 64.6 billion kuna, which is 573 million kuna compared to 2009, accounting for 573 million kuna, accounting for 53% of total planned expenditure. When I spoke about the property tax earlier, the analysis shows that the value of non-financial assets in Croatia is four times higher than the income available and that by introducing 1% of the tax in relation to the gross value of land real estate, it would cause a decline in income at the level of the Republic of Croatia at 2.4%. On average, the value of non-financial assets and income levels is four times higher in Croatia, but in Zadar County as high as 6.29 times higher. Many economic policy opponents, including the state budget, are very often critical and most directly and most often, the most constant Croatian employers' association. He's critical of the government because of its negative framework for entrepreneurship. It is true that many entrepreneurs are in great difficulty, the truth that many are blocked. But it should be pointed out that most entrepreneurs are not in difficulty, those who raise their voice most often, but those who are in difficulty are in difficulty because of those who raise their voice because they have brought them into a marketable position and because they are irregularly undermining their obligations. But in this context, the truth works, it should be pointed out and pointed out that in the ten previous years, over a period of ten years in the Republic of Croatia gross domestic product has increased 2.19 times, that in the same period the budget has increased 2.35 times, that the net salary in these employers has increased only 69%, and that the total net profit of these employers has increased as much as 2.9 times in ten years. In ten years, total employers made net profits of 222 billion kuna or 10 billion, slightly more than 10 billion euros. This impressive data, such as this, cannot be seen, is a unique example both in Europe and in the world that, compared to the number of employees and in relation to the total income, they have achieved such net profits over the last ten years. So much for the negative framework for entrepreneurship in Croatia. However, it should be noted that the assumption of the feasibility of this proposed budget and the absolute financial discipline at all levels, the eradication of the grey economy, the more developed market relations and the resuscitation and the promotion of the economic conukture that is possible only at a low price of capital and a higher supply of money. It is therefore particularly important to worry about the emergence of high interest rates on deposits in banks. An increase, a more serious increase in and reviving the economic conukture is possible only by significantly greater harmonisation and coordination of both fiscal and monetary policies, as well as export policies, income policies, as well as all segments of economic, overall economic activity. Only the harmony of all economic policy holders in creating a vision, strategy, creating fundamental economic objectives, selecting instruments and economic policy holders can also achieve the basic objectives of the national economy, which is to encourage production to maintain economic growth, promote production to maintain employment growth and maintain price stability. Many try to transfer most of the problems to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so when we mention this problem of high interest, passive interest rates to deposits in business banks. The Croatian Banks' Association proposes that the state solve this too in a way that the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation for certain deposits above a certain amount of interest rate abolish the insurance. It's an absolutely unacceptable theory. That would contribute to one chaos, uncertainty in the banking system, and we certainly don't need that, and that can't happen. It is a serious problem, but it is a problem in the domain of another policy that needs to be addressed. The HDZ Club supports the 2010 draft budget, with a projection for 2011 and 2012 and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43046	Thank you. Two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43047	Dear counterpart Maric said that, speaking of the economic situation in Croatia, it was most affected by the global crisis. Maybe one 10%, but most of all, this economic situation and the situation in Croatia was influenced by a policy of similarity and politics of a small vitre or with a small vitre. And listening to the debate about Robespierre and the French Revolution, I'm surprised no one mentioned Louis, king of the sun. I'd like to meet him, which means communal compensation, it's not a tax because he's counting on us in squares. Among other things, for example, the cost of public lighting, which is due to HEP and contracts with privileged consumers, including units of local self-government, has been raised up to 50%, as it charges spent kilowatts and charges for the supply of electricity to consumers. So 50% of public companies have collected electricity from privileged consumers probably so they can finance or I don't know who. On the other hand, local self-government units today have fewer tax revenues that are reduced from total tax revenues at around 8% at the level, so the 100 percentage tax revenues taken by the Ministry of Finance and are smaller than they were during Austria-Hungarian or for two Yugoslavias. Minstar Shuker took the profit tax, but he didn't just take the Bandic, he took everyone and filled the state register. These units of local self-government lost up to 10 million to 15 million kuna annually. I'm sorry that the Minister of Health left again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43048	That's why the Austro-Hungarian failed. And Mr. Representative Zoran Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43049	It's the bell.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43050	Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43051	So I'd like to be really specific. I'm correcting the assumption that the communal fee is essentially a property tax. The communal fee is not a tax on property in any way or in any way whatsoever. The communal fee is a compensation for the municipal arrangement of the local community. It is paid by square meter, so the one who has a square surrounded by marble, the most expensive marble, pays the same communal fee as the one who lives in Potleushica to that villa surrounded by marble. So, it's a completely socially unfair fee. Taxes can be used on their own. The communal fee is simply strictly intended income and don't cheat on citizens here that we have a property tax. We don't, because the property tax should be charged according to the value of the property. We have all the taxes we have in local self-government by square or cubic, not the value of what you have. Therefore, you are for the rich to pay just as much as the poor and to enjoy the same communal standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43052	SDA representative club Mr. Anton Korošec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of State. At the beginning of the introduction, I would therefore like to say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Party of Democratic Action of Croatia will support the 2010 Budget Proposal as well as the 2011 and 2012 projections. Before pointing out the financial indicators, before highlighting the figures that talk about the budget, I think about projects that really need to say something about the time and the problems in which the 2010 budget was created, of course without any party exclusion or without any personal exclusion or without thinking that I blame someone for some past time and that this is wrong for making the 2010 budget. So, the situation in the economy is really difficult, but I believe we'll all agree that it's not unexplainable. In doing so, it is vital that the government is fully aware of the difficulties we face. And the opening of negotiations with the European Union certainly has a positive impact on economic flows in Croatia. That is why we believe in the club HSLS and the SDA of Croatia that the absolute priorities of the government and this budget are preventing unemployment growth and job creation. It is also extremely important to stop the decline in consumption and encourage new investment cycles in industry, but also in other sectors of the economy for which investors are interested with their capital. In doing so, it should be pointed out and stressed that a very good solution to the Croatian government, including a personal prime minister, is a call for all known economic experts to cooperate to address the difficult economic situation. This government, and we must agree, has opened the door of cooperation for all who want to help get out of the crisis. It should also be noted that the government and prime minister's move should be highlighted when the opposition and all of us have called for an agreement on the problems that are important, the priority problems of Croatia today, the Croatian economy, which is shipbuilding, incentives, arbitration agreement, state administration reform. This round of strategic issues for the future of the country in the coming period certainly includes the 2010 budget. Now, it's inevitable and it can't be talked about the budget not to point out the figures, not to say anything about financial indicators. So, in the 2010 budget, planned revenues of $112.8 billion, which is 1 and a half percent more than in this year's budget. The expenditure planned at 121.4 billion kuna, which is true 904 million kuna more than in 2009. What does the budget mean? It characterised it to plan for 2010 a mild GDP growth of 0.5%, which is why higher budget revenues are planned than this year's. The 2010 budget also characterised a growth in VAT revenue by 5.4% so that the revenue would amount to and is planned with 38.8 billion kuna. Then the increase in excise revenues by 3%, which would amount to 11 billion kuna, and the increase in VAT and excise revenues, of course, were the result of an increase in VAT rates and the introduction of excise duties on mobile telephony. The characteristics of the 2010 budget are certainly also down by 13.4%, down by 1.1% and down by 1.1%). It is also a feature of the 2010 budget of reducing the costs of the national team from 50 million kuna to 30 million kuna. Significant savings have been made on subsidies that have reduced by a billion and 200 million kuna. From that amount, agricultural subsidies were reduced by 695 million kuna as direct sectoral support. Then subsidies to shipyards for 180 million kuna. Subsidy to the railroads for 125 million kuna. But at the same time, it should be said that pension expenditures are increased by 582 million kuna, birth benefits by 110 million kuna, child benefits by 15 million kuna, unemployment expenditures by 35 million kuna and pay out for about 140 million kuna. 2 billion kuna will be allocated for Croatia's adaptation programmes to the European Union and for the financing of projects from pre-accession negotiations 432 million kuna. It also envisions an increase in incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises by 16.9% or 47 million kuna and an increase in incentives for exports and investments. So with the government's readiness, with all of us ready to carry out further structural reforms in the state and public administration, with a review of the justification of the current social compensation model, with a review of the system of state agencies and funds, a review of the local self-government system and a further review of management contracts, we believe that indeed in this budget, as well as projections for 2011 and 2012, we need to give our vote, we need to give confidence. With such a clear and publicly demonstrated willingness by the government to make and implement difficult decisions, difficult reforms, this 2010 budget can be a stable budget and above all aimed at strengthening the economy. It is with this wish that the Club of Representatives of HSLS and the SDA of Croatia will give its vote, its support for the 2010 budget and projections for 2011 and 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43054	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43055	Mr. Vice President of Parliament, Government, Secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me briefly on behalf of the National Minority Club to say about this budget next. Despite the very difficult and complex economic situation, which has been a lot of words in this House, as well as forecasts and estimates for next 2010, the club of national minorities, i.e. representatives, assess the acceptable amount of planned funding in the 2010 budget of the Republic of Croatia for the achievement and protection of the rights and freedoms of national minorities, since it is planning 99.1% relative to this year or a total of something above 43 million kuna. We appreciate that rational spending and saving can bring about planned programmes, i.e. cultural autonomy, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and regulations. In our opinion, however, something more complex and demanding is the situation in terms of municipal standard, primarily the rehabilitation and construction of infrastructure facilities, social standard facilities, the overall state of sacral objects in areas where members of national minorities live, as a rule the vast majority in war-torn areas, areas of special state care. I mean, first of all, Baranja and Eastern Slavonia. It should be noted that in the last few years and on this plan very much has been done and significant funds have been invested, of course slightly less than desired and listed in the content of certain coalition agreements, respecting the newly created objective circumstances. On this occasion, I must point out that it is sometimes difficult to accept explanations about the lack of funds for investment, which means minimum standard, municipal standard, while both from the budget and from the reports of individual funds, it is evident that in certain areas, much higher forms of municipal and other standards are financed, which are systematically, in fact, sometimes, part of the local units. I specifically pointed to certain items and purposes in this regard when discussing the funds invested on our islands. I hope the colleagues in this area have not resented, or resented. Finally, I must express my gratitude on behalf of the club for the understanding of those responsible in certain ministries, not to list in order, Croatian waters, Croatian roads, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and Croatia's electricity industry, although I must stress that the most difficult implementation is agreed there. In the hope that the agreed investment will be realised despite modest opportunities and difficulties, representatives of national minorities will support the adoption of this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43056	Thank you. The club of the representatives of the HSS, vice president of the House, Mr. Representative Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43057	Dear fellow Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say hello to you, even though the president said we should skip that part, but we don't have to skip it, because it's nice and hear it and respect each other and act accordingly. And certainly the debate on the budget, the debate on the fundamental document that we are subsidising relations, functioning and behaviour over one year requires both an evaluation and an indication and the need to hear what others are thinking, but full responsibility to what is being presented, what is being said, how is the assessment of reality proposed and the possibility of realising it. First of all, on behalf of the HSS Club, technically looking at us, we evaluate this budget very well done, reviewed, clear, with quality reasons. In fact, it is possible to fully read from which revenue is intended to settle how much funds, and also for which purposes are allocated through individual asset positions and which is intended to be financed from the state budget. When it comes to whether or not we are going towards other forms and funding opportunities during the period and beginning of the next year, the HSS Club represents and supports the government's proposal to adopt a budget, because we have always warned in the course of this year, through the debate on three rebalancing, and when it comes to determining obligations, but especially when it comes to determining the sources from which the funds will be settled in order to settle them, because none of us who raised our hands expected that they would receive praise and thanks for the introduction of a crisis tax, because VAT has been increased which increased the excise duties, but this was a condition that we were not told of what was going to happen to be a budgetary disaster, that a system of financing and a series of other findings would be decomposed and in the adoption of the budgets are relevant to the balances. In this year, we still have 35 days left, neither the Prime Minister nor you, Mr Vice President, spoke of the complexity of the financing situation by the end of the year, and the data we heard said that pensions and all pension rights were established and social rights and salaries paid and that they would be paid in December. It is our obligation, it is our responsibility to those who are financed from the state budget and I think we can be satisfied there, I say, not expecting that we will be particularly praised for what those procedures on the receiving side were made for, but they were necessary. And what's important, what we're looking forward to in the HSS Club, is that these measures are given a period of time to say, that it's said at the latest until and perhaps before, and God forbid these indicators that we're talking about be realized that way and that all of this is done together and before. Surely what has been said here, and with the budget is always expressed and a certain policy, it is a continuation of the commitment of care to every kuna taken from taxpayers where they will be used and how they will be spent, and therefore we support this system of unification and public procurement, without additional employment because there are enough quality people who have worked in different systems, segments of this work, when they sit together to get there in time but most importantly to cheaper and more transparent purchases. What we don't need to run from, what we're talking about here today, and very often in the debate, these are volumes of incentives and their purpose. It is certain that whoever knows the essence and depth and purpose and the objectives that are to be achieved through the means of fostering agriculture were then not and there is no dispute that we wanted to do so and that we will continue to strive to create conditions for our family economies, for our producers to be competitive and for our production volumes to be sufficient for our needs, for the processing industry, for tourism and for the export part. It is also certain that this cannot be done, and that it will not be achieved overnight, but we are aware that without funds, without investment, there is no achievement of this goal, in the realization of this special contribution should have been given by me, I believe that it will give capital support. I agree with those who say there were anomalies, there was. There's always been and there will be because I've been listening to the talks where in the land traffic, the father sells to his son, the son of a father, like we've made traffic here now, and now you're paying us 50% of the investment. It wasn't an intention, it was a deviation, it's an anomaly, it's what we have to prevent. But we are about to adapt to milk production when the conditions are to be met when it comes to farms, meat production, production in a number of other branches where no funds will be achieved. And this reduction in our budget would certainly worry us much more that there is no other component, that there are no funds in pre-accession funds for which and for whose withdrawal funds are being provided here, but these funds, and we agree there is much more complex and difficult to come by, and our producers will find it difficult if they do not work out what is said here, which is an additional cost and is expressed in billions, that is our training to organise, that we can withdraw those funds, that they can withdraw which are entitled to them, and they need help. Because the budget, especially with projections, is certainly affecting the period when we will be a member of the European Union. When not only will we have the calculation of rights, or dots by means of pre-accession funds, but we will have the right to funds from structural funds, and there are already some calculations, and that can actually be measured today whether what we were talking about in Croatia was real. And if the so-called The envelopes for direct payments in agriculture, already calculated 343m euros, means somewhere near 2.5 billion kuna, then it says that those calculations that we've been doing through both the programmes and the government's programme, that they were real. What we at the HSS Club are warning about and what's said and in the introduction and reasoning of the budget is the creation of capacity to withdraw. Because if there is no paying agency, it is envisaged here, for its work the funds are foreseen but the government must insist that all those who have to enter that intent work, because if there is no such agency there are no direct payments, because the European Union does not know a different form but only through the agency. If we do not secure or secure our component, then there is no withdrawal of the other part, which is the means for rural development where the new EUR 370 million is foreseen. All of this will need to be prepared, trained. And that's why at this point and when we talk about the 2010 budget it's a huge burden of sub-calculation. But in the long term, looking at and setting up agencies, their equipment, functioning, creating conditions for a more efficient system will return through these and some of the other positions where we will equally compete and where we will be able to withdraw certain funds. What we certainly all want together, which is that in 2010, the rights that came from the laws that we have passed from collective agreements that have been concluded are working on employees, it's about pensioners' rights, that they settle. And I think it's embedded in this budget and that's what we welcome and for which we will give support. There's got to be one more thing where we're also going to agree, it's about opposition, it's about position or opposition, we're all together and we welcome when we've brought in a somewhat different coalition agreement and wanted to finally ensure the real financing of our county administrations on the roads, because it's a lot more miles away than the state roads. They get those famous already now 240 million and therefore it's hard to plan anything other than a bone bank and coloring those white lines and a little repair of the holes. I believe that the government and the ministry will find ways to strengthen that position if not with the budget, then when considering the involvement of funds within the overall structure for these purposes, because in this sector we have to say that we are not implementing it, and our needs are increasing daily. However, time is running out, the HSS club will support the adoption of the proposed budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43058	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43059	I would say to an honourable representative I could agree that it was difficult to raise hands for such decisions, but it wasn't the only way. I'm talking about increasing VAT from 22 to 23, and the promised VAT reduction. The introduction of a harrassor regardless of what someone is calling it, but it's quite a harrass and pounding on the pocket of workers and peasants and increasing excise duties. There were other ways to fill the state budget, especially with a respected representative saying that the government's commitment cared about every spent money. So I wonder what happens every day, the people who were put up by that same government shut down by the police? Starting with Croatia's electro-privreda, who mentions Jurjevic Brodoplit more, and now to the Croatian highways. Not to mention what Pancic has been saying for two years how many miles of highways now cost, and how much has it cost from 2000 to 2003? And why, when she was so worried, where was that tunnel painting 10 times more and who did those money go to? And this situation in agriculture, we can do it another time. ... Check you in your party who needs more... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43060	He who paints shall be painted, and he who is painted shall be painted later. Now we're done discussing clubs. An individual debate without a break. 46 MPs and MPs reported. It's when times are multiplied by a very optimistic time. 46 of everything. The first honour is to open Mr Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At least I think there's one thing that's clear to me. The budget is in some way the theoretical expression of the existing state and one policy identification card run by a government. On the other hand, he mirrored the image of society and we through this budget and not just this one, but in continuity through the budgets that the government had led when HDZ led it we can see that behind it, therefore behind that theoretical expression of some reality hiding a failed model I would call it quasi or a failed quasi liberal attempt. Here's my colleague Markovanovic throwing something away. So it's actually about one in practice trying to install the quasi of a neoliberal economic model because given our tradition, all the handicaps we have, looking at and historically one frigid democracy, the unsustainableness of democracy plus the habitation of leaders, followers plus relatives, cousins and in-laws, so to say the predisposition to deny what the market is wearing in itself, I think there was a strange model. Well, now it's no wonder this budget's weird, too. And that's why I'm surprised by Mrs. Prime Minister when she says that we from the SDP are satisfied because we're not going to table amendments. We don't make amendments because we don't actually have a chance to fix a budget like this. He is an expression of a real policy and attempts by organisations of life in the community, in a society with which we disagree deeply. That's why he's being out of our cancer watching, out of our optics watching incorrigible. The normal thing to say is that if we look at Croatia's 19-year existence for 15 years, four years of coalition authorities can then be monitored by some continuity and what happened in Croatian society in general. The normal thing to do is to me, here's my colleague Vinkovic mentioned the Split Square or shipbuilding and some of the questions that I've been asking here. The normal thing to do is I don't care that this budget is sticking and that last broccoli looks like a coffin that wants to be buried by Croatian shipbuilding. The reduction of subsidies is no longer what this difference would save but more at one symbolic level of manifestation of will so I would say liquidated Croatian shipbuilding which I think is very bad. The Prime Minister said she hopes the second round of privatisation will succeed. Listen, I deeply doubt it, given the way you approach this privatisation by warning of the new tens of thousands of unemployed who will come out of these smugglings if they are destroyed and I believe that the ship is still the most authentic Croatian product, this shipbuilding can still be fruitful for our country. These days Croatia is being circled by a joke that brings in one support and sad intonation and talks about a little edge that comes to Pizza and orders pizza, but says, "Give me the biggest one. Get me a jumbo pizza." And eat the edge of the jumbo pizza and then the waiter comes to charge and Hansel gives him three kunas. This guy says, "Are you crazy, like three kunas for pizza?". He says, "How crazy? Well, that's the value of three Croatian shipyards." So this privatisation of the Kuna Square really brings us into a situation that is not even a little comical but is very tragic. The experimentation of economic models and not only economic models, they add to one cultural science to say the matrix in Croatia in these 19 years, I say everyone carries part of their responsibility so they carry some coalition power but she was four years old and she did what she did, and in my opinion she did a lot and it can be discussed accordingly. For 15 years, HDZ has been conducting. You see, from 90th to this day, starting with this year, which in the first six months, we are left without 50,000 jobs tells us that this quasi-neoliberal model led to the fact that the number of employees cut in half from what was 19 years ago. He's paying. The average salary in the early 90s or 89s, so in the period when Croatia is created, is around 1,000 euros, today it is around 700 euros. 30% of the real purchasing power of Croatian citizens has fallen. I see the Deputy Prime Minister has a bit of an air-conditioned head but in negative directions, but it seems to me to be a reality. We can run out of it in papers, and I don't know what, in some theories, but that's your reality. The reality is that solidarity is less, that people feel life in Croatia is like life in a community where there is a collapse of the social state. We can discuss this and that. Health, schooling becomes real problems for people, how to educate a child. The students don't complain about anything, it has to be clear to you no matter what. And it's about this budget and what I'm talking about. Let's not be surprised if tomorrow and the sick start strike. Some would seem to want that, too. ... Adverse reactions are normal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Adverse reactions are one of the strangest and deep new social divisions of Croatia in which new forms of quasi elite appear, that is the tycunized part of Croatia that makes it impossible for real entrepreneurs. And I can agree with that, someone was talking about it today that they're really doing the right thing, but that's why there's mob corruption models, the affair that we're throwing at, and so on. It's all part of one to say the failed model that the prime minister says is set in advance. I translate that. I don't have to be an economist. I'm a congressman or I can be a pyro or a diver, or what I know, it doesn't matter, I jump with a parachute. But I translate it like this. So there's no new policy that would change anything. Where 80% is pre-set. I can answer that I speak economically, you don't understand Mr. Jurjevic because we're talking about economic categories, these are some sort of fixed things, etc. And I'll answer you no, it means to me that you've left only 20% of the free space for some new policy and that's not enough in this crisis situation and we've been fighting here and there's a crisis, not a crisis, recession, non-recession. It comes up, they are not hard words, but there is a dramatic separation in Croatia, a dramatic separation within which I and through the budget see this picture. I see that dramatic picture. Close, we can walk past the mirror and close our eyes. I, I can think I'm a pretty Cane, and I'm not, just because I close my eyes and imagine, but it's smarter to look in the mirror and see what I really am and what I do to be different. And I assure you, this is not your ideology, they have no calories that a man must bring into his body a daily ideological omen. They don't have a sick ideological omen, they don't have a school, they don't have an ideological omen. We share on those who can afford it because they are rich and those who can't, and it will be, if anything, the biggest tragedy of society if we don't stop this. I'll have to answer five more, six more times.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43062	Yeah, yeah, but a little later. But please don't accidentally think about jumping with a parachute. You see what led up to the low-level jump. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43063	Comrade Jurjevic, you said that by reading the budget you discovered two miracles. The budget itself is strange to you and you were talking about some weird model of quasi neoliberalism. It's not exactly quasi, it's really a very good, neoliberal concept of capitalism, but when it comes to the budget, I've also discovered a miracle in the budget. Namely, in the item where the state provides assistance to local and regional self-government in the Međimurje County item is zero for next year. Last year 2 million 800, this year 2 million, for next year nothing. According to the fiscal capacity of the municipality, cities and the Međimurje County itself, the third is the lowest of the bottom measures and we achieve only 3066 kuna of income, tax revenues per capita. I wanted to see if we're wasteful, so we spend too much money on employee costs, so on a cold drive. The Croatian average cost of local self-government for employees, when even institutions owned, kindergartens, centres for culture, libraries and museums, was 847 kuna in 2007, and in Međimurje 337 kuna. 337 kuna per capita per year. I went further and collected data from municipalities and cities. When I set aside the cost of cultural institutions, child care, so the clean administration is employed, in Međimurje the ministers are following you. The most expensive municipality per capita is 14 cartons of cigarettes a year, and the cheapest 4 boxes of cigarettes. They're averages of 20 kunas. As a reward for this thrifty local Međimurje self-government next year, the state won't get a penny of help.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43064	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43065	Thank you. When I was talking about the quaza neoliberal model, I began to think that even the neoliberal economic model has its own logic and it can function neatly on one side as a market that develops a system of social Darwinism in which only the most successful survives, etc., and leads to profound injustices, but respects the state without interference in that classical way, etc., although there can be a political dictatorship if it will. But this isn't about that, this is about one worse version. It's not about a pure model, it's about a mixture that leads back then and a social buster, so monsters, diamonds, strange beings in front of which you find strange practices where sometimes a healthy, reasonable and well-intentioned man gets his hair up on his head. To prevent that, I think we need to do something to sort this society out in such a way as to bury deep ideologies, to raise monuments to the graves of these ideologies, and to seriously think about what's best for this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43066	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43067	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honorable gentlemen of the government. Listening to Prime Minister Kosor's opening statement today, we could hear the announcement of a whole series of measures that would be very difficult from this cancer situation today could be said not to be welcomed. In fact, the prime minister mentioned that there are certain efforts and plans to reorganise the state administration, to rationalise the public procurement system, to reorganise local and regional self-government, then to probably touch on preferential pensions, to manage public enterprises more rationally, to revise management contracts, etc. However, what is announced in the 2010 draft budget is nowhere to be seen and not only not to be seen in 2010 but not to be seen in the 2011 and 2012 projections. What does that mean now? That the official document we love to call the law of all laws in the current year doesn't even recognize what the Prime Minister is announcing. Does this mean that the budget is a reflection of one policy and that the prime minister is leading the other? I wouldn't want that to happen because it would mean that he had an unworthy government, that is, that the ministries are unable to monitor the policy dictated by the Prime Minister with his team. Furthermore, 87.2% of this 2010 budget is said to be practically predated by legal obligations. It's only partly true. In fact, there are regulations governing the existing level of clientelistic rights to which the government's policies rely. However, if there is a will and desire, this level of 87% can be reduced relatively quickly. Because what goes into 87%? These are among other things and wages, material expenditures, these are otherwise expenditures for a very large number of state bodies, state administrations, state agencies and some ministries have their own facilities at 7.8 locations in Zagreb. In the past five or six months, we have proved on concrete examples of individual agencies that this is actually about the bumps of unhappiness. Forgive me in such a strict language, but at the very least we have proven that certain administrative items are being solved for more than 30 working days. So many courts don't judge in the most complicated cases that require the same amount of judicial expertise. Therefore, the media has also exposed the activity of individual agencies that are not doing anything or those who work inside do not know what to do. It's one of the valves through which you can loosen this 87%. But not just that. It's said you can't send people on the road. On the proposal, a joint proposal by SDP, HNS, IDS, to go into radical management reform in a way that defines what a technological surplus in the state administration system is said to be impossible. Of course it's possible if there's political will. Why? There is a strong process, a strong trend in job losses in the real sector in the Republic of Croatia. There's already over 45,000 of them this year. The figure is projected to reach 60,000 by the end of the year compared to last year. It's about jobs, so in the real sector. These are jobs that produce a new value. These are jobs that generate taxes and contributions from which the state is financed. So, does it matter if he loses his job as a man in the state sector or in the real sector? Well, of course it doesn't matter. For each smart country, the workplace in the real sector is worth three times more, and those places should be saved, not in the state sector, especially if productivity in certain public administration facilities is critical. But this is a line of less resistance. This is a very conservative approach to budgetary planning, which is actually a reflection of the same methods from 2008 and 2009. Let us not forget at this time last year, the responsible people of the government assured us in a vivid way, swearing on wood and stone that there was no crisis. What input data did we enter into planning this year? With a very high growth rate that had absolutely no cover. By the third month of this year, we've stuck to the cramping and the stories won't be any more serious fall, there won't be a crisis. There is no crisis in Croatia. We banged our heads on reality, but did this teach us to be as careful as possible in planning 2010, 2011, 2012. No, it's not. Yesterday on one of the board representatives of the Ministry of Finance Explicate says that this projection of GDP growth of 0.5% is based on projections of growth that other European Union countries have defined in our environment for the following year. We're asking which ones? It's mostly just about the so-called. to the old members. We cannot rely on the situation in Italy, France, or Germany at this time. We're interested in how the Transition East of Europe works. And the transition east of Europe is in such a situation that all experts say the crisis in Eastern Europe will last at least a year longer than in Western Europe. First of all, because of the policy of banks that first resolve the situation in the countries where the mothers' banks work, and only then will it actually work on loose credit facilities towards the east of Europe. And it's nothing weird. So this is something that is publicly discussed not only in academic terms, but in practical circles the governments of transition countries. What have we learned from the Government of Poland that practically brought the only country into a transition world that hasn't hit its head with such negative effects of the crisis? What have we learned from the anti-recession measures in Bulgaria? It's not here. We neither recognize it nor build it into our budget. No cuts like that. And how then we'll talk about some kind of policy that will boost the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. So look at the nominal figure of how much the amount is increased to boost the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. For ten million kunas. This is no nominal aid to any medium-sized enterprise, let alone something more serious. Furthermore, the next wrong premise of this budget is the 2010 tourist season. I dare say more because I spent more than 15 years in tourism. All experts warn do not expect the same conditions that were in 2009 because you have a major decline in urban tourism throughout Central and Northern Europe that reaches 20%. You have a decline on the whole Mediterranean between 15% and 20%. Next year, there's a bloody fight going on at dumped prices. So what we did, which is that the drop in the number of nights and the number of bookings we have at the level of two or three percent. This is difficult to repeat in 2010 if there are no serious funds in this budget in which the promotion of Croatian tourism will be subsidized, but it will also enable such flexibility of the prices that will give us competitiveness on the market. Look what... guests think about Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia's hotel rating dropped a year by 10%. In the modern world, there is no booking that is preferred through any other information but only through ratings, and ours falls. We'll be banging our heads in six months when we figure out maybe even before. Already on... in Berlin will know exactly what position Croatia is on the international tourist market, which is the beginning of the third month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why it took much more conservatively to approach the spending party, but also to make a different story about income. In that sense, our clubs have made suggestions. But you should also look, let's just say there's not a single kuna planned from the privatisation revenue. Interestingly, the state is not planning to privatise anything. There are now several, not a few, but I think thirty auctions for large portfolios. Only in three companies almost have 50 million kuna value. The auction will be the beginning of the 12th month. Well, we can't expect all the money to be sitting by 31.12. So it's obvious that this is an unsustainable budget which we, in opposition, oppose with our concrete proposal. [[/Intruder Capricorn: Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43068	Thank you very much. Your time has run out, Your Honor. It's our guest, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... Okay, well, here's my secretary's apology. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You'll be replaced by the Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues, what will they say at the beginning of the presentation, when you get a document like this in front of you? What kind of budget is this? My opinion, as well as most colleagues from my club, is that this budget was essentially written in a way that more or less things had been paste since last year, i.e. eventually the rate of inflation was included in one part. Perhaps the only thing that falls into my eyes is the increased payment of interest, because with last year's budget we have brought Croatia into an even more difficult debt-related position, with the loan of money to finance the state's excessive expenditures, so this year, i.e. the next year 1.1 billion kuna, we will pay more interest on the commitments that Croatia has. Now public debt is 42 billion euros, likely by the end of next year it will be 45 billion euros. What concerns me most, and I'm particularly concerned about it when Prime Minister Kosor says, proposing this budget, says 87% of the budget is set. It tells us that Croatian finances, public finances, have entered some kind of fungi, that there is neither left nor right, forward or back, it's simply a default, there's nothing we can do. I'd say it's a message of politics that's powerless to do anything and do anything. It is a policy that unfortunately cannot get this country out of the position it is in today. There is much to be done if you wish and if you have the courage to enter the reforms that are necessary for Croatia to move from the fungi that HDZ has introduced us to. According to that logic, 87% of the budget is set by the Minister of Finance in this country can be any adult, because if all is set just to go year by year index inflation, record incomes, expenditures, and there is no policy there. Everything is already in advance for the 2007, 2008 budgets, etc. So the finance minister by that logic can be every adult, and even in some cases, if with permission he can be a senior minor. Which one is this budget facing? Is he facing the citizens? I don't think we have to explain to anyone today that it's not. We see where the only additional revenue was found to meet the revenue side of the budget. He's found himself in a crisis tax, a harachus, whatever you want. 3 billion kunas will support this powerless policy, an powerless policy, because I can't call it anything different when the prime minister herself is telling me everything is in order I can't do anything. So 3 billion kunas will help this powerless policy. Is she facing her employees, huh? 700 thousand people in this country work, every month, every day since the morning of darkness, earning their bread honestly, to feed their families and that their families can live with dignity. But what does this government tell them? This year we lost 50,000 jobs, we don't take care of you, next year there's a very similar trend, 50,000 new jobs, or 50,000 new jobless people, who are going to have to apply to the labour market next year. So we don't take care of citizens in general, we don't take care of employees. Maybe we're taking care of the economy. But it's my opinion that we don't care about the economy either. There is no intervention in the budget in a way to encourage new investments, in a way to help the economy in a way to boost economic growth. Well, the budget is planned at the stagnation 0.5%. So the economy is in trouble, there's no indication there's going to be recovery and growth next year. HUP, the Croatian Employers' Association whose director is today, the new economy minister says, HUP says they are not satisfied with the budget. They don't like this way of planning public finances. So the economy is also unsatisfactory. Is the budget turned to development? I already said no. 0.5% of GDP deficit growth is only talking about once, that we are in an even bigger problem. We'll have to find new nearly nine billion kunas next year to cover the deficit in the state register and go, as I said, into further borrowing. Did it turn to development 0.5%? Absolutely not. This budget is not addressed to anyone except to preserve the HDZ story, the HSS and to patch things up so that this coalition can hold out until the next election. Unfortunately for the burden of economy, citizens, employees, everyone. Nobody's chosen, the only thing that matters is the HDZ coalition, HSS: And now that I'm not just speaking critically, I'm going to say what needs to be done. I agree with my colleagues and other club representatives of the opposition that this budget should not be, for the first time I did not enter the budget in depth, because based on the initial items of analysis of income and expenditure, I said this makes no sense to analyse. I just had a reluctance to it, to the whole document. I see these things aren't going well. And that's a message to HDZ, HSS from opposition clubs, take a break for two months, make temporary funding. Actually, this is temporary funding for the whole year. That's last year's budget, just projected for the whole year. Take 2 months of temporary funding, start the necessary reforms, and bring in a new budget. It is neither a problem nor a deficit if it guarantees certain economic growth and development. If it goes into development, if that's why growth will be next year 2, 2 and a half percent is not the problem with this deficit. This deficit is only a problem when it goes public, and it definitely goes public. What do you need to do? First of all, tax reform. Disperse labour costs that will stimulate employment, which will make our businesses more competitive. Second, disbursement of income that will boost consumption. Citizens need to be allocated more resources so they can live better, so that they can preserve their domestic economy through consumption. Starting a new economic cycle, we need to find what we had in the highways in 2000, on the highway, find an area where industry will start, where our companies will somehow start a new investment cycle. Protecting domestic economies, spend what you proposed in anti-recession measures last year, protecting against bad domestic goods, I don't see anything going on here. Reforming public administration expenditures, first of all yesterday the prime minister said with her fingertips. We will not resist or say that we need to cut pension costs, absolutely not, pensioners are hard to live for, and they need help, but there are 400,000 pensioners who are able to work, stimulate these people to get a job, make it easier for them to remain part of their pension to work more than to sit at home and receive a pension, there is much that can be done. And of course I see that I'm approaching the time end, I could do it for a long time, burden those in society who have more, it doesn't seem systematic and ignore that fact that in this society it's cheapest to be rich they least pay considering how much they have. Here's a proposal, instead of a holiday house tax, just one sentence, 5 to 15 kuna, that 1% of the property will have to pay on its houses every year, and then a man who will have 2 million euros worth of a cottage will not pay 1000 kuna but will pay 20,000 euros. Thank you very much, I hope I get a chance to get more involved, but here's the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43070	I'd be begging, I'd really be begging the MPs if I didn't have to warn, stick to the rules, it's 10 minutes, we can't speak 11, 12, there's 46 reported if everyone goes through a few minutes, you know how much it's going to stretch out. Therefore, it is the Rules of Procedure that we respect him. I'd like to ask you if you'll be in charge of the session, then you'll be the one to comment. Now we have corrections to incorrect quotes 2. First is Honourable representative Drazen Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43071	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would, in effect, correct the inaccuracies of my colleagues, Maras, who found that this government is powerless and that all the moves it makes are actually the patching up of the HSS coalition, HDZ, etc. Namely, surely the quote was incorrect and what most denied that this government was powerless we would have already now and had not made moves, very bravely we would now be in financial and economic collapse. In fact, I would rather say that these are both bold and tough moves and it is certain that these crisis tax and VAT increases are not politically popular moves but the government has drawn them to ensure financial stability and that they can pay both salaries and pensions and maternity benefits in time, so that all that is the obligation of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43072	Thank you very much. And another correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43073	I thank Mr. Vice President, here's colleague Maras said that this budget is addressed to no one, or only to the government. This is really not true, it is aimed at safeguarding macroeconomic stability you know that this is extremely important, that this government invests in the economy as much as it can at right now, that it is working to meet the needs of the users of the budget and here, if you think it is the pensioners, that it is health professionals, educators, that it is births, that defenders would then be said not to take care of anyone, and this government is also taking care of the economy, taking care of those socially endangered but also our pensioners, defenders and everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43074	Thank you. Now we have two replicas, first of all the distinguished representativeplatovnimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43075	So, dear colleague Maras, you're absolutely right, there's a Chinese proverb that says, "If you don't know where you're going every time, it'll take you there." And that's about what this budget looks like, and we don't know what to do, so then this budget is both excellent or equally good or great because look, if this government knew what to do then it wouldn't define as performance indicators the share of exports of the processing industry in total, but it would say how much it wants to increase the amount of our processing industry at the end of next year. This government does not know what the effect of investing in agriculture will be, because if it did, he would say that the aim or indicator of the efficiency of the Croatian budget is to reduce the import of agricultural products into Croatia and increase the export of agricultural products from Croatia. This government doesn't know what the goal is because if it did, you'd write down how many jobs it wants to keep with this budget and how much it wants new jobs to open, this government doesn't know, because if it did, it would then write exactly what industry it would preserve, and not say that it was an indicator of efficiency to keep the industry safe. The government also does not know that there is a need to increase decentralised funds because knowing that the income tax has fallen as it writes would increase the settlement fund. However, if 87% of the budget is given then surely 13% of the budget is thrown into the hole without any effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43076	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43077	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, Mr. Mr. Gristle, this government has chosen a strategy that is never good at crisis, and that's waiting, and now it's looking at the world, in Europe, whether the crisis will solve itself and then spill that solution into Croatia. It's terribly risky and every crisis requires action, unfortunately this government does nothing. Anti-recession measures, someone tell me how many have been implemented since those 10 you suggested, almost none, except the budget rebalances that were in the 3rd month. And now I'm going to mention to you my colleague Mršić, which is why I think the reforms are crucial, and I'm going to mention another Chinese proverb, every time it's long, every time it starts with the first step. Unfortunately, this government has failed to take the first step for the past six years, it simply pushes us more and more into crisis instead of pulling us back and moving us towards solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43078	Thank you. And a replica of the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43079	You and your colleague Maras mentioned one of the possible criteria for the assessment of the situation in the economy of a gross social product. At the invitation of French President Sarkozy, three Nobel laureates analyzed this cold method of calculating GDP and found that it did not correspond at all to the state of affairs in the economy and instead made and offered a model in which, among other things, the measure and quality of life, or happiness. And to a large part of the European Union, this new method of calculating the movement and the economic situation is already being applied. A measure of public policy success is based on measuring unemployment, health and education or reduced happiness. And they've established eight variables to measure the happiness of the people. And they say it is health, education, individual activity, political voice, that is democracy and governance, social network, environmental conditions, personal uncertainty and economic uncertainty. If 8 of these variables were to measure the gross social product in Croatia planned for next year, in my humble court it would be minus 15%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43080	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43081	Thank you, colleague Lesar. Now that you mention GDP growth and how it is estimated, I will give an interesting data Meaning of recession, i.e. the decline of the economy in 2008 brought the Croatian economy back to the situation as it was in 2007. So we came back in 2007, and our economy is so strong. At that time, the budget was spent at HRK 107 billion. In 2006, 97 billion kunas could compete with the current situation that year. So about 15 billion kunas lower budget, and the economy in the same situation. So is it illogical that employers, which the economy is rebelling that it is simply not possible to finance such a state and 15 billion more with the power of the economy than 2.5 years ago. It's just not possible. And normally, when planning the budget, we must always consider the situation of the economy. No linear cost increases, and the expenses are no one to charge. It is, unfortunately, filled only by those who are the poorest who do not have much through the harras and through an increase in VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43082	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear Representative Dragan Kovacevic is coming up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43083	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In this proposal for the 2010 budget, we are in a way ending the crisis in 2009 in which we have been reviewing the current economic models, in which sometimes very radical moves have been taken, in which we have twice debated and adopted budget rebalances to reduce state spending and ensure the stability of state finances. We have introduced and they could say extremely unpopular, but necessary measures such as increasing VAT and introducing a crisis tax. But what no one can deny, so the country's financial system has not fallen, we have preserved the stability of state finances. No pensions, no maternity benefits, no salaries, so everything that's a government commitment and a state budget hasn't been delayed. So the economic system is not even collapse. And if macroeconomic forecasts are achieved, so as is the assessment of the global economy, it is expected that they should come next year, so in 2010, that they should also feel the first signs of economic recovery. It should not be disturbed that this year has marked several events affecting both the political and economic scene since the departure of the former prime minister, since the local elections. But something happened that somehow clouded the calculations for many catastrophes, which is the appointment of Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor to the head of the government and three key moves that she made. First, these were measures to preserve the stability of the state budget. Secondly, it is an agreement with Slovenia and a deblockation of negotiations with the European Union. And thirdly, it's a deal with corruption in all the structures of society, so without delay. These are the moves that in that difficult situation we had half this year meant both a radical turn and a face-to-face with the situation and a solution to the problem. At a meeting of economists today during the draft state budget, government representatives announced a series of measures to be implemented in the coming period, from increasing the efficiency of the state administration, reducing parafiscal burdens, fighting corruption, saving at all levels, rationalising public sector business. Also stronger support for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for its programmes, in particular programmes supporting exports. Therefore, we believe that this budget and the announced measures will, in a certain way, stop negative trends, contribute to stopping negative economic trends and what is certainly the most particularly problematic problem and the most difficult problem, which is the problem of unemployment. In fact, unemployment is a major problem in the Republic of Croatia not because of the number of unemployed, or not only because of the number of unemployed, which today is 273,000, or 15.5%, but also because of the structure and relationship of those who work and those who receive salaries and pensions. For a long time, one employee in Croatia, two salaries and one pension should be earned in the Croatian economy. Also, as much as this year's 2009 crisis has been, however difficult it has been for the economy to assess that real sector problems will remain, and sometimes worsen in 2010. In 2009, although it recorded very negative trends, from exports, from reductions in personal consumption, from decreases in public consumption, from declines in industrial production, increases in unemployment, etc. However, it was the year in which the economy in some way also inherited the previous year's contracts and the 2008 business arrangements and the years in which supplies could still be spent and created. However, old contracts and jobs have been done, invoices and situations have been laid out, stocks have been well spent and today the businessmen face major challenges. It should be believed that the situation on the financial market will improve both global and domestic, and that at least that part will, therefore, become more accessible and that interest will no longer grow. Another problem that should also be cut in the root is non-payment. In fact, very often, by observing global economic crises this historically one of the consequences of the crisis or one relic of such a remnant, something that arises as a problem could be inflation. Thank God in the Republic of Croatia, it is within the framework of the master criteria, so at this point it is 2.5%. However, the other thing that can happen on the way out of the crisis which may also be a rough economic disturbance is the problem of insolvency or insolvency and therefore the occurrence of non-payment should be broken in the root, especially if the source of non-payment is a public system, some public enterprise or one of the users of the state budget. In fact, the same thing should be warned about another phenomenon that is happening, which is that some people are using very well, I would say abuses of this crisis, and actually, although they are not able to pay, they are deliberately not paying and thus producing new problems, so a new non-payment. Where the state and next year, with maximum savings, is not allowed to schedule support for the promotion of entrepreneurship and support for exports. And it is good, and on our board, we also found that no item in the Ministry of Economy related to the promotion of entrepreneurship and related to strengthening competitiveness and exports has been reduced, so the continuity of these programmes has been ensured. For large countries and strong economies, exports are certainly not crucial to survival, but Croatia is a small market, a small economy, and it is clear that for us to get out of the crisis and for economic growth and development at all, it is extremely important to export. Therefore, the role of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is here in the last two, three years, should continue to be strengthened by around 10 billion kunas in the economy, and that is precisely for these export-enhancing programmes, and the calculation is that this is for 2008, that 15% of the companies have increased their income precisely by the ones that have participated in these export programmes. What is also to welcome is the fact that there was a reduction in sectoral support, so what we had from shipbuilding, railways, agriculture. And in the end, I'd just like to mention one more important word, which is solidarity. In fact, there is no sustainable development without solidarity in society. Some economic experts say that the global crisis has actually arisen in human greed, that this greed is a product of a neoliberal economy and a system of values that capitalism has imposed on society. And that is why it is important that, in the following year, whenever we make certain decisions, we make certain laws mean that we have this solidarity in mind and that it is taken into account, and that the very ones that are most needed today in society and which are most seriously affected by this crisis are taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43084	Thank you. We have four replicas now. First is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43085	Thank you very much. Mr Kovacevic, with a large part of your debate I will agree, of course, except for this part that this budget is good and that it provides some perspective for next year. But one part of the debate specifically encouraged me to report for replication. This is about when you said that every employee in this country needs to earn a salary to pay or to pay for social benefits, pensions, etc. That's partly true, but what's worrying is that 700 thousand people work in the real sector. So, people in the real sector who create newly created value must earn two salaries in order to pay the cost of public administration and to pay for all these social benefits. It is very difficult to do anywhere, let alone in a recession of a affected country like Croatia. And that's why our message is very simple. We've got 400,000 working-age pensioners. A tax system should be created to encourage the employment of pensioners who are working in a way that pays more to these people than to be on budget money or pension money alone. Many of them even work but are unfortunately working in a gray zone, or undetectablely working on black. So we do a system like that where we increase the number of employees especially from this fund, which I said to workable pensioners. And then the pension fund will be smaller and no one will be denied what needs to be done in terms of pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43086	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43087	In fact, about this problem in our society, we can say a serious structural and economic problem that this crisis can only say that it kind of surfaces, so it's not a problem since yesterday. Unfortunately, when we look at it in a historical context, counting on it since 1990, then we can really say it was the consequences of both war and transition, and even some economic decisions. But let's look at the data. In 1991, 719 thousand pensioners, 2000 million and 18 thousand and 2009 I have a million and 159 thousand data from June. So it's certainly a problem that burdens the economy, which burdens those who do and also what's safe when, it was this SDP proposal as a cut in half I don't know what, 30,000, 40,000 we fire from the state service. It's easy to say. First of all, the structure is not such that it can be done at all. So the structure of those who work because they need to distinguish what public service is, what are those officials literally what they mean. However, what needs to be taken into account is what is the absorption capacity of our economy. Where do you think you're going with these people? Well, we can't drive people out into the street. So we can't drive 30, 40 thousand people out into the street because simply the absorption capacity of the economy, especially at this time of crisis, isn't such that they can accept this workforce as much as we can, so we try to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43088	Thank you. We have further distinguished representative Ivan Hanzek, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43089	His replica of counterpart Kovacevic is aware of the first sentence he says, in fact, is a quote "good for those who believe", because he spoke of his belief throughout the entire duration of the exhibition. Since he's a professor at college, as far as I know, I apologize if I'm wrong, which is science, these are exact indicators, although the economy is not exactly accurate until the end, I think in the discussion of the budget his contribution would be in concrete data and concrete arguments. In fact, when we discussed the 2009 budget, it was also believed that the budget would hold in 2009, and we who said that even in our own party, we did not get support for the forecast that the rebalancing would take place before the local elections. Everyone believed that they would hold until after the local elections for these and those reasons, we all know that, but it didn't prove right. I'm afraid that all indicators, and this about exports, exports are growing slightly towards Austrian and German customers, but not enough to absorb minuses and not in long term purchase plans, but in short-term orders. Recovery out there won't help our healing from the problems standing before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43090	Replica response, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43091	I have to respond to the replica. Yes, I am a professor and a regular one, but I'm not a doctor of science, I'm a doctor of science. Just a little correction. As far as this other part is concerned, I wasn't talking about the data here. I was talking about some kind of belief. I don't think today, I'm not gonna compare myself to other MPs, if anyone's brought out more numbers, so here's what I'm paying for. And this thing about the budget and this kind of belief, it's not about faith. I also found and read the data this morning, when it was a story about increasing budget spending. In 2009, budget spending was 119 million and 371,000, in 2010, budget consumption of 118 million and 6 thousand kuna, which means that when compared to two years, budget spending, so what we consider to be an economic dictionary of consumption, was reduced by a million and 364 thousand kuna. Therefore, this was a reduction in the meaning of budgetary spending, and when it comes to the whole of this budget, it is certain that this consumption is of paramount importance to us. We said, we're going to cut budget spending, and here, the parameters are there.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43092	Thank you. We still have the replica, the esteemed representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43093	Well, you see, counterpart Kovacevic, it is truly commendable that last year and this year you managed to secure a regular payment of pensions and other social contributions and that you are saying that this was the goal of your policy. However, you do not show any concern for the 60,000 people left without a job this year. They did not receive regular salaries, neither did they receive what belonged to them by bankruptcy, and now you have reduced their remuneration from the Employment Office. You do not show even the slightest concern for 100,000 people who work in blocked companies today and cannot receive the paid salary due to a large part of the tax administration that did not regularly charge taxes, so today you have a situation that the workers of Peveca have not received the salary for two and a half months because the tax debt is more than 150 million kuna. How is it possible that a company has a tax debt of 150 million kuna, not before it came to a blockade or that the tax administration had not previously warned the situation? And next year, 50, 60 thousand people will be out of a job. You do not give this budget but no indication of how many jobs will be preserved, how many jobs will be newly opened. You said the Capital Support Regulation was abolished in agriculture, so you brought into great uncertainty all those people who bought the machines and built the capacity for agricultural production. They don't know if they'll get their capital support back. But what is most tragic was spent billions of kuna in agriculture, and no increase in agricultural production, and what is particularly important was not the increased exports of agricultural products. So it can't be the goal of economic policy to protect only those who are on the state's mantle. Economic policy must first of all protect those who are...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43094	Thank you! Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43095	In the real sector, they live off their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43096	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43097	Here, I'd like to replicate my colleague. In fact, sometimes a man feels like we're talking here like we're from another world, especially when we're talking about all these problems in the economy. So no one here has denied or incorrectly presented the number of employees, how many exports we have dropped, how much imports we have dropped, because imports are also a problem, especially if they are imports of capital goods that will later be accumulated through the economy, so that they will be used to make profits. So no one denied that information, so the crisis is there. Finding a solution to getting out of a crisis is certainly not a country that is in chaos. So, at the moment, and when we made those decisions about the banking system, when we increased the secured savings stakes from 100 to 400 thousand kuna, when we reduced these mandatory reserves, we placed more, we ensured that more money could be placed in the economy. All of this was to ensure the stability of this monetary part, so the banking part, but also these moves that went around the VAT, which went around the crisis tax and some other measures, meant to ensure that financial stability. Without this macroeconomic stability, there would be one chaos where not only could they no longer help but simply the country would be in an unembarkable situation. So this part you said about capital support. I think yesterday we agreed that these support didn't seem stimulating enough because it's just too big. Getting 50% for some kind of bought device just isn't support anymore, it's no longer an incentive. It's just something that can slow down structural reforms. The countries that entered the European Union in 2004 receive 25% of the total support they receive only to avoid being lazy and to not be put to sleep in the implementation of structural reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43098	Thank you. Let's move on with the replica. Dear Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43099	My colleague, you said he lacks solidarity in the Croatian economy. Well, logically, entrepreneurship in Croatia is only in postage. Because an entrepreneur is a person who risks his own capital, his own savings, and he's not a person who distributes someone else's capital. That's why there's a lack of entrepreneurship and a healthy entrepreneurial spirit, a lack of entrepreneurial culture, as well as business morality. I feel sorry for the many and most honest entrepreneurs, who spend the economy of the community and who know what the economy of the community is. Unfortunately for them, terror is done by individuals of the so-called. quasi entrepreneurs. And quasi entrepreneurs are the ones who are destroying other people's capital. Unfortunately, however, they have destroyed everything around them, do not pay, dominate, drive in expensive cars, in expensive yachts, fly across Austria and America, and do not pay obligations and destroy other entrepreneurs. These are quasi entrepreneurs who need to be put to rest. They are even a little where they should be, and quasi entrepreneurship without prison is the same as Christianity without the pope.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43100	Replica response, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43101	I think we all agree on this term of solidarity, and I'm just going to quote who specifically insisted on it and who is remembered for it and where it's written. He says, "There is no sustainable development without human solidarity. The world cannot survive without human solidarity, Pope John Paul II." And now that we're talking about global economy today, neoliberal models, etc. Why they've been questioned, where the crisis has arisen. The crisis was created on the one hand on this economic side that there is no longer any place to go, which is what markets in world terms are simply these profits have already taken over, or have already been realised on them. And the other important thing is that there was a crisis of that ideology. So, global capitalism and that global capitalism ideology has therefore come into crisis precisely because in some ways business has been estranged from both man and morals. So profit, hunger for profit, etc. And when you're looking at the crisis in America, then it comes first because people were buying bonds, and they weren't saving in banks. And then when there was a break in that stock market, so on and so forth. They lost their money. And buying bonds and counting on them to make more money encouraged them to spend. They bought apartments, houses, etc. And then this summer we had a chance to watch the entire settlements of people in tents who lost everything. Human greed, that's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43102	Thank you. Here's one debate for half an hour. Let's move on with the individual debate, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm on and I'll be on to what my former colleague Kovacevic said, and that's what I believe. Belief is not bad, for he who believes, especially those who positively believe, will be positive and will act. So, from this point of view, there should also be some things in this budget that I consider to be stable for 2010 by looking at its items and positions absolutely. First of all, I say, they point to the items in the area which also means strengthening the economy, but also directing the funds to all those in need. But you can also see that on the items that point to savings, denials at all levels, which means that he's actually like that real. He took the real and only possible in the current situation. So, at a certain point, at a certain time, which must be absolutely clear to us all, and I think it is, and that is therefore a general situation in Croatia, Europe and then in the world. However, the fact is also that it encourages and develops as such, so competitiveness because 10 and a half percent more money is foreseen for the item. Hard in situations and situations in which we too find ourselves going to make or therefore creating a budget that should be equal to certainly imperative development and social justice. At this point, however, this budget thus offers what is only possible, so realistic. And this means that it is made optimally in my opinion, and this indicates that 87% of the budget is set, and within that, it is glad that the increased funds for regional development, for the water economy, to encourage science, to promote excellence, etc. And to enter competitiveness, therefore, the economy, is investing in the competitiveness of the economy, etc. In general, therefore, it is also seen from the fact that the anti-recession measures that the government has carried out during this year have therefore created a pretty good assumption of overcoming the effects of the recession. What we can, therefore, and with which we can support some of these, is the fact that the central government budget deficit would be 2 and a half percent of GDP, and if these are added to the deficits of extra- budget users and local units of 0.1% of the general consolidated state deficit would mean somewhere 2.7% of GDP. Also planned is a mild GDP growth of 0.5% and therefore higher budget revenues are projected, and they are from as seen from VAT in 2010 because they were clearly higher by 5.4% and that would be around 38.8 billion kuna and from excise duties, which would therefore be 3% higher. They would clearly represent about 11 billion kunas. In any event, it should be said that it also contributes to an increase in VAT to 23% and 1%, respectively, and to the determination of excise duties. But it was, it should also be said, a condition for solving the situation and, otherwise, it couldn't have been. All other visions and conjectures are clear, therefore, that they would not be able to find a reality in the present situation. Let me say again, this can indeed be one stable budget for 2010, first of all, to strengthen the economy, but to direct these budgets to which they should, and therefore one way to go to savings, in a way to save and give up at all levels. What do those savings and those denials apply to? Well, we could have heard that by now. It is therefore a savings on the costs of the team, specifically from 50 million to 30 million, which is certainly not small, and here we could hear Mrs. Prime Minister going to go towards making that part even more reduced. Much higher savings, however, have been achieved on subsidies reduced by a billion and 200, in particular 625 million agricultural subsidies, 180 shipbuilding subsidies, and 125 million savings on railway subsidies. Today, shipbuilding sites and different attitudes are mentioned here when it comes to shipyards, however, economists' opinions on this are also shared. One is essentially about keeping it as such, and while we have the other part that indicates that we should, therefore, go bankrupt. And we also have the opinion of Croatian exporters in shipyards. I hope you know what they mean and if they are and how much they're deluded into certain matters. What I would like to say is certainly related to this introductory part that, and this is related to 87% of the budget, which is in advance due to the rights of the guaranteed laws, and it refers therefore to the allocations for salaries, pensions, social contributions, interest, the resolution of war consequences, demographic policy, is also considered social justice, but also to the protection of the most vulnerable groups. So I think the theory here is that there is no concern about the most vulnerable groups, that there is therefore no social sensitivity, that there is therefore no social benefits, the issue of pensions, etc. They certainly have one piece of justification. I agree with that. But not absolute and complete which I can't accept anyway. That this is indeed how it can be seen, therefore, that pension expenditures are increased by 582 million kuna, birth benefits for 110 million kuna, child benefits for 15 million kuna, pay out to 140 million, unemployed 35. So it can also be concluded from this that everything that has been done in the last 4 months, so in the case of anti-recession measures, is now just being operated and going into surgery. In any event, it cannot be ignored in that part that 2 billion kuna will be allocated for Croatia's adjustment programmes to the European Union, as well as co-financing of projects from pre-accession negotiations with 432 million kuna and 1 billion increase for interest costs totalling, so... It's 6.3 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what you should be taking care of, anyway. I have already said how much care is taken of also some positions, i.e. issues that are always present in Croatia, they are current, is the issue of speedy care of returnees and refugees. So they're standing a country a year about 7 hundred million kunas. Likewise, when it comes to agriculture, the reduction that goes into agriculture, it should be said that it will be obtained on the other side, but there is an adjustment of agriculture according to European Union rules and that will cost us 502 million kuna. And setting up and managing specifically the Schengen system will cost us about 234.7 million kunas, etc., etc., not to repeat probably what others have said. It cannot be clearly omitted or forgotten certain maturity and liabilities, which were thus determined by the 2010 budget financing strategy, which are due, and relate to 3 billion kuna and 5 hundred million euros in liabilities, and 1.25 billion euros in loans. And these are the commitments that were long ago created and which are now on the charge, in particular 500m euros related to the coverage of the commitments made in 2000, a 750m-euro loan to cover the bonds of 5 hundredm euros from 2002 and 25 billion euros from 2003. So we should look at it with multiple levels, or different positions, of what we're talking about. What I'd like to say in the end anyway is that I disagree with those who say that the budget is high, and that it's unobstructed. He's optimal, he's real, and at this point he's the only one that's possible and he's giving us one stability that we all together together in 2010 have to and so we have to fight. And I'd like one at the end of our people, given what I've heard today, which I'm sure you all know very well, which is that the sun can't be covered in palms, but it can't even dawn before dawn, obviously what some would like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43104	Thank you. We have two corrections and two replicas. First is the correction, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect and slightly funny claim by my colleague Matkovic who said this budget is optimal because 87% of the budget is pre-set. So it turns out that he would be even more optimal if he were given 100% in advance. So it's a completely incorrect and illogical claim. 87% of the budget is not for natural or divine laws, but for the decisions of this Parliament on the proposal of the Croatian Government. The Croatian government could give other proposals to make less budgets, to make the state spend less, and this is the only way to tell citizens you can't pay as much taxes as we can spend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43106	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, and the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43107	Dear colleagues, you should know that these loans which are now being paid interest have been taken to cover debts from the period from '99 to 2000, respectively. That in one 10 years, loans, interest, for what the finance ministry is doing now, will also be paid in some budgets. And on the other hand, you're absolutely wrong when you say that this budget is real, and developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43108	I thank you for the violation of Rules of Procedure Boris Matkovic. Here you go. Thank you. Then we'll go to two replicas, first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43109	Your colleague Matkovic and you reiterated your claim that 87% of the budget was set. That's right. But this 87% budget commitment is our decision, whether the government, or the Parliament. And according to your call of belief, I truly believe Mrs. Kosor when she invited us to point our finger at what was not good. I point my finger not only because of this budget, but also because of the years to come, maybe someone will sometimes realize that 87% can be less. 8.6 billion kuna per year goes to pensions that have been earned under more favourable conditions, which is now 7.6% of the state budget. From 2. World War I, we have 62,000 users, from the Homeland War 72 thousand users of these pensions. The growing number of users and progress, and now for these purposes goes 4.8 billion, I would like to warn and point out that this country will be in a situation that in 10 years only defence pensions will go 10% of the budget, and for total expenditure on preferential pensions over 13% of the budget. I don't see a single proposal, he didn't come to the Parliament, that he'd really intervene in time, because then if my forecasts are correct and they are, and that's only based on a quarter of the number of registered defenders, then there won't be 87% of the budget, but 92. Now it's time with smaller cuts, less painful and less introducing a new injustice to react in time. For generations to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43110	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't think a colleague of Lesar, with all due respect to you, as the first correcter of my colleague Bauk's incorrect quote, has listened well to what I'm saying. I said that 87% of the budget is so beautifully written, you can see it on the phonogram, it's pre-set because of the law-guaranteed rights. So I made it clear what that means, if you're expressing it differently then it can only confirm what I'm saying that I said what you just said afterwards. As for what's about to happen in 10 years, I'm not the weatherman, I have nothing in me that Nostradamus had. And as for this part relating to this part of 87 percent, or something else, that you should listen to when someone's talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43112	Thank you. And now we have another replica, the esteemed representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear fellow Matkovic, I actually had to react because a little bit already in the ear this finding about that the budget is optimal, realistic stable, the words you have used several times and, unfortunately, I must say, unfortunately, in this difficult situation this budget is the budget of survival rather than stability. We must acknowledge both the position and the opposition and be fully aware of the situation in which we are and the fact that this is the budget that my colleagues and dear ones from the ministry certainly know better than we do that this budget has a very high risk that will certainly increase the deficit of this budget and require rebalancing probably already at the beginning of 2010. When I say that, then I say hopefully with arguments, so I'd like to say those arguments very briefly. I'll be quick. Firstly, we do not have data on the implementation of the 2009 budget, given that the growth rate is less than 1% expected than what is based on which the earlier budget is drawn up, it is clear that this is invaluable. Therefore, these revenues with which the 2010 transition accounts are invaluable. Secondly, in the first nine months of last year, profits fell by 30%, which is exactly how much less income from profit tax or something but not what was projected in the budget. Third, there has been an enormous increase in unemployment, and you know that fewer people in the system mean less contributions. And to conclude, the bulky side of the budget is not the calculated cost of shipbuilding. The whole public has been talking about it for months, especially since we know there will be a second round of privatisation of shipbuilding, that the state will have to take on a much bigger burden than it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43114	Thank you. Did you get that? Replication response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43115	Here is the respecting Professor Dr. Greekic as an economist and Dean of the Faculty of Economics in Split and his expertise, and I always respect the profession. I can only tell the following Doctor Greek that's your opinion and you have the right to it, but you can't take my opinion. You can't take it away from me and say what I'm saying isn't right. It is only right from one point of view, which is that what I said is optimal and realistic given the situation and the moment, given the economic crisis we are in and it is as such only possible and only feasible. That way. And now the forecasts you and some of your other colleagues have made it clear that so far your prognosis and visions have not been real or realistic. Well, I don't know how many visions in the future I can be like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43116	Thank you. Let's move on to the debate. Before that, I'd like to warn you that five debates have been conducted so far, two hours. And it has a total of 46. He wouldn't interfere or influence it, but let each figure out how long it takes. It's a turn for the esteemed representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Prime Minister is today, but often since she became Prime Minister, she has been very pathetic about how difficult her position is and how she must make difficult decisions. I'd say that's simply not the case, because if she'd made the tough decisions, we wouldn't have this budget ahead of us, but we'd have a very different, much more serious and more responsible budget. The difficult decisions are not to call it a harrass, or crisis tax to drag hands into citizens' pockets is not a bold move, it is simply something that is a line of less resistance because it is obviously easier than going into reforms and in some painful cuts that this society needs. Therefore, there is no reform without introducing order in the country, no problem solving here, which has been the case for the past few years, so no one has seriously addressed these problems since shipbuilding, agriculture, social care systems, health systems and many others. And it should be said that unfortunately these reforms, these necessary moves do not exist even in the coming years, so there is no such thing in the 2011 budget projections and 2012 which speaks sufficiently of the seriousness and responsibility of this government. The HDZ government was inconclusive at the end of 2008, when it was already seen that the crisis had entered our environment greatly, and they knew that neither Croatia could remain without the impact of the crisis, the more everyone knew or spoke better from the economy that our economic policy system itself was such that the crisis itself would have an additional and more serious impact on us than it did on many European countries. Unfortunately, the HDZ government persistently refused and refused to listen. The highest price for this was now submitted by Croatian citizens. In this year, more than 50,000 who have lost their jobs, employers announce the same in the following year between 40 and 50 thousand new unemployed people, so new 40 and 50 thousand lost jobs. But also so much less money in the state budget on the side of income from taxes and contributions. Unfortunately, no one takes care of it and really asks me a question, Mrs. Kosor here today expressed her concern and concern for the extra people in the state administration, and I was asked why she never once expressed her concern for 500 people a day who remain without bread, without work, who remain on the street, these are the people who earn. The 500 people a day who run out of work earn not only for civil servants who are protected as bears by law, but also earn for us here. Therefore, it is very important for us not to lose 500 jobs a day, 500 of those jobs that actually generate profits in this country. When we talk about how many people are out of work this year, but how unfortunately they will remain next year, the question arises what kind of government policy has abolished some funds, for example. The employment office? So I'm going to read here now, for example. active measures to hire groups that are threatened by social exclusion, so the largest number of people who are 45, 50 years old lose their jobs and who can no longer find a job on the Croatian market, zero kuna. Zero kuna for 2010 so everything that's happened in the past year, there's nothing in this year. Support for the preservation of jobs 30 million kunas is less, which means that it is a policy at the Employment Service that the HDZ government is trying to actually or rather telling citizens that it will remain on its own and on its own. The state in this section via the Employment Office is sadly removing the funds needed to help people at the Employment Service, especially those who fall into people who will no longer be able to find the most likely job. I'm going to refer a little bit to some things that were written in various programs, so for example. I think it's time we talked about it, too. In fact, it was beautifully written in the government program and something about the so-called pensioners getting the so-called pensioners. State support, so a number of pensioners who have failed to earn their pensions, will receive state support. It was due by the end of last year. So it's about retired people older or better told to people over 65. Unfortunately, none of that is there, and I'm afraid this year will be questionable and existing pensions, because if people go out of business like this, then I'm afraid the revenue side of the budget will become less and less full. He's in the government, for example. in the Government programme and that measures will be taken towards the welfare of young families by the end of this year and that a strategy for housing for young people will be developed. There was a lot of nice things planned, and you got gentlemen in the HDZ elections to do that, and citizens need to know that you didn't actually do any of that. Like that. You haven't made a measure that says, "The interest rates on housing loans to young couples and families with children are being arranged." Today, young couples or rather many people who have a loan can hardly repay it. Those who do not have a roof over their heads this year will certainly not be able, nor will the next get credit for solving the housing problem. There were measures to improve the system of tax relief to address the housing issue on the basis of the number of children, also nothing, and the family credit system by the end of this year. None of that, just people are actually just being pushed by the growing problems of existential nature. In 2006, a national population policy was adopted in which it was written that by the end of this year it would be done next and not. So here's the deal. Measures were to be adopted for unemployed young parents as well as for parents of children with special needs. Here we have seen certain funds being abolished at the Employment Service, not to mention that there are no incentive measures for unemployed young parents. No measures have been taken to provide for young couples, no single regulation has been adopted to regulate the system of family support, which is today the Prime Minister here and confirmed and the deadlines are constantly moving. The deadlines for this have long been fixed, are now moving again somewhere until 2012 and really raises the question of what the HDZ government has been doing for a full 6 years or rather a resolution ministry dealing with social care, when it has failed to reform this system and introduce at least a central system of social benefits in order to know who is receiving social benefits and to stop those who do not have the right to do so on different grounds, to raise large rights and large financial resources, and that those who need social assistance in Croatia can not actually get to this assistance. No preferential VAT rates were introduced on children's food, equipment, clothing, you also promised in your population programme. On the contrary, you raised the VAT by 1%, you introduced a crisis tax that everyone must pay regardless of how many children they have. So, of all your promises, very little has been fulfilled, you've only actually made life even more difficult for people. Today, Mrs. Kosor here tried to present herself again as someone who cared deeply about families. Here, what I just said shows how sincere she cares about Croatian families. And on the other hand, when it comes to children today, I said on preventive programmes for children, no less than 11 million kunas have been removed. So 11 million kunas were taken down primarily in the Ministry of Education on all projects that go to child prevention, to encourage their programmes during holidays for gifted children. So the money is literally halved and we need to know that we already have an increasing number of children who are at the earliest age, so we are descending on the age limits of children who commit crimes. Therefore, they wave at certain statistical indicators that we do not have an increase in violence among children. However, those who work a little harder to look for the real causes will see that the age limit is shrinking. This hitting here and saving on preventive programmes related to children will result in an increased number of violence among children and I have said today and I repeat here the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Mrs Kosor will bear the greatest responsibility for having more and more violence among children in a few years because simply without preventive programmes it cannot affect all of this we have today. And you still need to know that this crisis situation is taking place this year and the next most fracture over the back of the children.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43118	Thank you very much. We have one reply to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Goran Maric. Here you go, colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43119	Thank you very much. Well, here, I didn't want to correct the incorrect allegations but to give an opportunity to answer because I was to conclude from one finding that 50,000 people were out of work, that it was exclusively the government's fault. That's what employers did. Many employers were forced to do so because of difficulties, but many did not, and most did not. Most of them used the situation and fired employees even though they shouldn't have already increased their profits anyway. And that's what those in the last ten years have achieved 222 billion kuna profits. This is what those who publicly want to teach the entire Croatian public about economic policy and all their lessons are based on a single sentence, I read some day from one of the great economists. He says, "The drop in GDP is taking too long and that is why Croatia is in major economic problems.". That's about as clever as if someone put a sign on the subway "The subway's down!".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43120	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43121	It's true, colleague Maric. Yes, it was the employers who fired the workers, but the same fact is that since the end of 2008, the HDZ government is not listening to their employers today either. So employers have been warning all along that they need help, that they cannot get out of the crisis alone. We've given a dozen laws here in which we've tried to disburse a part of the economy. On the other hand, we call all the time for a different tax policy that will motivate employers not to make money from Croatia but to invest these money here and to hire workers. Unfortunately, as long as we have a tax policy in which it's much cheaper to sell here a company, real estate or anything else and leave, we're going to take it all out of the country so far we're going to have a situation like we have. So, the government has mechanisms that can affect the creation of a entrepreneurship climate and that it is much more cost-effective to invest money in production and hire people than to keep them at the bank or in some speculative actions that a part of them deals with.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43122	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of distinguished counterpart Slavko Linic. Here you go, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43123	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The budget is one of the strong instruments of economic policy. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is well in charge of economic policy. And there is always a question of what is the basic objective of economic policy, and I guess today we have slowly realized that economic growth is one of the very important economic goals, that economic growth is essentially the one that speaks about stability not only of the state budget of the economy, of the economy and then of the most important lives of the citizens of Croatia. And what must we conclude? That goal wasn't even last year, that goal wasn't even our year. We simply do not use the budget to achieve that goal. Why am I saying that? If our goal were really economic growth, the stability of the economy during the growth of this moment would have been to think that 700 thousand workers of the Republic of Croatia who create it, I may be an optimist, newly created value in Croatia, so they are important to this economic work. How to encourage those 700 thousand, give them whatever I would say the signs of a better, safer one precisely from this state budget. This unfortunately this budget message to 700 thousand employees who need to create a new value does not have. They're burdened with taxes, they're burdened with extra taxes. They simply have no security, they have no job security at all without saying that at the same time everything that will come to them is the price of gas, the price of energy, electricity, the price of municipal services will burden them and will simply drop their living conditions in the coming years. These are government messages from this budget. What would they say about those who were creating that new value by yesterday and now there are 50 grand at the Bureau. Is there any message coming from this budget? It's not working. However, it does not recognise the budget that 50,000 jobs have been lost this year and that 50,000 workers have lost their perspective. However, if you look at the detachments for the Employment Service you will see the items that were already very low in this year are shrinking. So the budget won't take care of them. Employers speak very clearly, we have no interest in continuing to deal with economic activities. Why don't we have any interest? Big burdens, no change in fiscal policy, at the same time better deposit money on the bank. We have high deposit rates. What do your employers say? In the next few months, the new 50,000 of those who create will be sent to your employment office. It's rough, but the true messages we're getting. The truth. So, did they scare us? They're not in this budget. We don't hear them in this budget. We don't see that simply employers have lost interest. And could we have done anything else? Well, we did. That's why the SDP keeps saying, gentlemen, the most important item is income. Incomes show fiscal policies. In revenue you can see these policies that are important for economic policy and for the battle for... No such changes, no. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, here we are, with the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister and we continue to run a policy on whether or not the property tax is something that matters. Yeah. Part of us still thinks it's the most important weapon. Does this tax serve to raise capital, to share shares without a single kuna contribution to the social problems of the Republic of Croatia, to make enemies employers to workers because it even comes out of the HDZ club debate to hold and stimulate bank holding, 7%. So tell me, what kind of economic activity guarantees that you'll have your capital back in 15 years? which is 15, 13 years old. No, no economic activity guarantees you that. 7% interest a year, that guarantees you. Does fiscal policy, does this budget fight to simply leave the battle for jobs, to leave a simple battle for economic growth? No, he doesn't recognize that. These are the problems of the budget where simply through this revenue side there are no solutions. We keep talking so that workers can no longer pay social protection for the health needs of Croatian citizens. Change it, move it, find other solutions. No, we don't want to change that. Tell me, how many dead capital do we have in Croatia? Do you know what dead capital is? The property that stands mobilized serves speculation. Our spatial plans are all paralyzed. Why? The days are for development purposes, everyone just wants to make money on land, not for investment. On sale, on speculative special. Who shot that? Fiscal policy. That's what we're talking about. But we don't hear from each other, we don't understand each other. It's all right. That's what we're different about. Someone's turned to creation, someone's not. We're talking about the positive results of companies. Where will they end up? In development, in new investments? No, in the budget. But the money will be collected from trading companies. That's your problem. We are not thinking about a new job, we are not showing examples of how to invest and enter new investments, how to create a market where our real sector will find some interest to deal with economic activities. And of course, the result is new jobs closed, a new number of unemployed at the Institute A at the same time the government knows the problems. So this morning, the minister herself said, 18,000 too many in the administration. Prime Minister, I apologize. 18 thousand too many. We have before us a budget of 2010 and two fiscal years behind this projection. Do we have a proposal from the government to deal with it? We don't. In fact, there's nothing to say about it. We don't see how this problem will be solved through any expenditure. Therefore, we know very well what the problems are, and we understand that we are putting too much burden on both citizens and those who should be creating a new value. And we can't find any policies to take that burden down and in any way encourage those who should create. That's the problem. That's the problem, which is why we can't find a common language around the budget. We can't find him, and it's a tragedy, because for three years we've been talking about it, and over three years it's slowly proven that we haven't been ready to wait for the crisis, that we haven't solved our crisis, and that we don't want to propose for three years, if this government remains, a solution. And it is hard enough to take studies from the World Bank, studies that process directly Croatia, not another country, Croatia, which is talking about problems and total changes, I would say, fiscal policies, rationalisation, management of public revenues, without talking about battles for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Yeah, they're studies. Some of them are to learn, but we are not willing to respect any measure or suggestion. And that's the message that you who create will carry all the burden, and we don't want to think about you. That's the roughest message of this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43124	Thank you very much. First word came from Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mr. Shucker. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Linic and I, not once, talked about this property tax in the hall, not like this, but in the towers, and I don't think we've ever really had any differences in our minds. So that's something we both realized that this communal fee that is at this point simply needs to experience transformation. However, what I said this morning after the club president, the distinguished representative Mr. Milanovic, said it was the income of the local self-government unit. And secondly, the process of introducing property tax in the Republic of Croatia because of the situation in land books... is a process that would take several years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, it's not just my opinion, it's the opinion of the prominent tax experts in the Republic of Croatia. So no one argues that this quasi property tax that has been left in the past, that in some times it will need to be changed and that instead of a square, we will have to pay at the value of a construction facility. So it's something that's not controversial and no one's slowing it down. I don't think I'm much of a minister, and sometimes when I was an opposition representative, I never slowed it down. However, it is a measure that simply cannot be implemented from today to tomorrow if we want to make it quality. The other thing is, I'm seriously thinking about this problem, so it's not just now that I'm going to tell representative Linic or someone else and we're going to stay on it. So we ordered one study from the Economic Institute to make us study simply about these property taxes, which all forms in Croatia exist. We already have several forms of property tax that collects nearly 3 billion kuna in Croatia and which are the original revenues of the county, whether the original incomes of cities. So we already have something. Whether it's supposed to be like that or tomorrow it'll show for a while. However, what is fundamental is that we simply cannot take that money and not take the units of local self-government. That's their income. We can't talk about decentralisation when it suits us, and now we talk about it like this. So it's not a questionable idea, Col. Linic. I say, the two of us, no matter what we know, come into conflict here in the assembly, but I don't think we talked about this once. But the only question is that these funds would be transferred to the state budget, if that is the income of the local self-government units. So that's something I end up saying I also showed the study of the Economic Institute. Another thing we can't forget. That's what I said this morning and I'm going to say it again, which is that the greatest ratio of the value of stable objects in the most developed counties is 6.29 times the income available. You know what it means when you have that kind of income ratio and the value of real estate, which means introducing a tax. Because the value of a property does not reflect the economic power of its owner at that time, depending on which moment he reached it, etc. So even when introducing that tax, you will have to think very much about this social aspect. Because let's not fool ourselves was convenient for political reasons to call this crisis tax one way or another. Let's not kid ourselves that this, introducing a property tax wouldn't hit Croatian citizens several times worse than this. So these are all the findings of the Economic Institute. I quote what they found. It's another thing. I have to say it's incorrect here, and I'm responsible for saying that we're taking profits from companies in the budget to patch up their hole. That's just not true. All companies, look at whatever you want, the profits are left for development. Perhaps that information has made a mistake for you, but it is a payment from the Croatian National Bank and their profits. Maybe it made a mistake for you, and you probably thought it was the payment of a company. So, no company has ever made a profit in the state budget, nor have we in such a way sucked all these six years of money out of companies and prevented them from developing it. So what I was saying about the property tax was I was saying something that was the attitude of the economic profession. So, I didn't want to get clean about it so there wouldn't be bickering in this assembly if I were speaking some of my opinions right now, but simply what we ordered from the Economic Institute. It's another thing. Therefore, no one in this country who deals with the economy will dispute the fact that the payload in the Republic of Croatia is high, and above all if we take the average salary primarily from a pension and health contribution. However, what do we have on the other hand? How much money we raise from contributions, pension contributions, and when we take all the pensions we've paid on all grounds, we have a 14 billion kuna deficit. And now someone's gonna say pensions like this. But we're just so short on paying off all the pensions no matter who they are or how and on what basis they've won. In the second part, we can discuss pension reform and all that together. So that's another topic. But definitely with what is paid on the basis of the pension, so the payment of Croatian citizens and what is paid is 14 billion minus. What we must never forget can be confirmed by our colleague Vidovic's pension reform. So we just have to think. It's one of the key tasks in the coming years, it's an increase in the retirement rate for the second pillar. So that we don't have a third group of pensioners who are going to be in one extremely difficult situation because of the 5% exemption in the second pillar of retirement will not be enough. And the third thing is health care. I don't know, I read in the media, I wasn't at the beginning of your debate with my colleague Linic because I was at the government meeting. So if I say something wrong, I apologize and accept a mistake. So, you're proposing to reduce the contribution to health insurance to 7%. That's nine billion kuna. We simply at this point, believe me, have done a series of analyses with colleagues who do this work, you have no room to say so in the tax horizon of the Republic of Croatia to make up for these nine billion kunas. You just don't. We were talking about the capital gains tax. Today, it is unfortunately, given the global crisis and all capital loss taxes. He may in future times be income. So I felt the need without intending to challenge any replica or anything else here, to bring out some facts that are simply as they are and which would be so regardless of who is in power at this point. But I'm saying again, let's be careful about the property tax statements because it's primarily the income of the local self-government units and if we want to put it in quality, we need a slightly longer period of time. Therefore, it will unfortunately have no more significant effect on the state budget. It will have an effect on the budgets of local self-government units. So, first of all, that's the opinion of the profession. I can also give you the material of my colleague Linic as to what the Economic Institute has done so you can see. So here it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43126	Thank you very much. Now we have first to avoid his thoughts, a correction by Djakic to the debate of counterpart Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I will correct a misquote by my colleague Linic where he claimed that this government did not take a single step towards the crisis in the Republic of Croatia and that this budget is absolutely not on the trail of the struggle with the crisis. So I would just like to remind and disprove my colleague Linic's claim. We are aware that this government has secured savings from 100 to 400,000 kuna and that this is the first of the measures it has implemented. That also this government in association with the Croatian National Bank has made a stable exchange rate of kuna still one of the basic things it has introduced. Through this last year's budget, it has ensured that wages, pensions, maternity benefits, social assistance, VAT returns will be made within and in time. A crisis tax has been introduced which is also on limited time and which wants or aims to stabilise the budget and to overcome this crisis by the end of 2010 I would also like to emphasise the reduction of salaries to civil servants was also aimed at the benefit of the fight against the crisis. [[Intruder Friščić: Thank you very much.]] Measures have been implemented to streamline and save at all levels, a sharp and uncompromising fight against corruption and crime at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43128	Thank you, colleague Djakic, I think you have made enough arguments for this claim for correction. We now have two applications for corrections against the debate between Vice President and Minister Shuker. First of all, dear colleague Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the assumption that the property tax will only have an effect on local self-government. Yeah. In revenue from material property will have local self-government, but will have a state budget, because we need to understand the founders of all health institutions other than clinical, hospital centres are county. All healthcare workers who are not in clinical hospital centres should be reduced and part of the responsibility transferred to those who are the founder. That's what they're worth to the school's employees, except for the university. Therefore, if this is the way of further decentralisation, given the increased revenues based on material assets, we see that this is also a huge, huge savings in the state budget. Therefore, the solutions are clear. We need to talk about them. Unfortunately, I did not get a second correction, but very clearly, President of Croatia's insurance said he was paying taxes, and let's also remember HT. ... No, no, I'm talking about profit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, okay, but let's remember HT.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43130	Thank you. Then we also have an application to correct the allegations against Vice-President Šuker's debate, distinguished counterpart Davorko Vidovic. Here's my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43131	I intervene to that part, correct the part that's talking about solving the pension system and the dubiosis or missing 14 billion. Some day in the paper they published says pensions are growing, plus 670 million kuna. It's the most tragic number I've ever read. Yes, ministers, 670 million kuna is for new pensions, for new pensioners. This means that it will be not 14 minus, but it will be 14 billion and 670 million because in the history of the Croatian state of Austria-Hungarian, of the Milky Way ratio of insurance and pensioners was not 1 versus 35. Absolutely the lowest ratio since it exists, since history has been recorded in Croats. It's a tragedy. So I'm correcting. You're finding a problem, and the solution is the opposite. ... But I'm trying to tell you that we're doing a counter and that you're just doing the opposite of what's nominal... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43132	Thank you, colleague Vidovic. It's safe, and we read it, it said it. The only thing I didn't, at least, read was whether it was Shuker or someone else. But we have another replica, colleague Linic. If it is possible to stay a little longer, because we have one reply to your debate from fellow Maric, and I know that you will be happy to respond to it, so let's end this application. Here's my colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43133	I would refer to my colleague Linic as part of the debate that says that the Croatian government does not listen to the voice of employers, and that no conditions have been created for the development of entrepreneurship. So if Croatia listens, if the government listens to the voice of the employers' association, it does not mean that it hears the voice of employers, because 60% of employers are not members of the employers' association at all, and in that association 4 to 5 companies play a dominant role, while others play a minor role. However, what demotes entrepreneurship in Croatia, this is exactly the dominant position of those in the employers' association, which, by their large market share, detimise new entrepreneurship, as well as existing entrepreneurship. So how does an entrepreneur feel when they produce and there's nowhere to sell? How does it feel when he signs a contract saying he's going to get a billing instrument and then doesn't give it to him later? How is he going to make a bill and he's not going to get paid? How is it that if he contracts a 60-day payment period and he crosses and writes 180 days of his own free will? It is something that demotes entrepreneurship in Croatia. Otherwise, three values, kindness, moderation, and impertinence are known to take precedence over others. It can be good and brave, can be moderate and happy, and can be efficient and business and be an entrepreneur rather than take a bold advantage over others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43134	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica of counterpart Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43135	When I was talking about the employers' association, I was thinking about their suggestions about excessive burdens with parafiscal intrusions. Let's be honest, in the last four years, we've had problems, too many contributions to water and especially investment. We have our desire to fight for the preservation of the economy, and without worrying about the modernisation of the economy, we have introduced a series of environmental objectives. And let's be honest, the money in the fund doesn't go exactly the way it's supposed to be. Also when we talk about forest contributions, when we talk about monumental rents, communal contributions, it's something that stops all investment. Everything. ... further level of state or regional and local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is what needs to be listened to, and this was supposed to happen in 2009 and 2010 as years of economic growth, and I was talking about it very much, because it is important to start an investment. Let's put an end to everything that stops the investment, because this investment is important to us both for economic growth and for the workplace. And otherwise, I would agree with you that the relationship between the economy and the businessmen themselves is not an honor to the citizens of Croatia. And in fact, as we behave between the opposition and the position, I think that even worse relations between those we call monopolies, although our agency does not consider them because they are not over 50% of the Croatian market, but by many they are monopolies and those who are fighting for small production, for gathering, and I would say a gathering of workers to stop imports and who have a maternal relationship precisely with these large, large Croatian... It simply doesn't serve them the honor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's a lot of justice and the state can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43136	Thank you very much. Next up, my colleague, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So I would say that we are a little bit and indisposed to discuss this budget, that we should be equally concerned about both the position and the opposition for this time in which we bring the budget, what budget we bring and what comes from it. It should be said that the state is never its own purpose, the state is the people and their needs. The needs of entrepreneurs, workers, social security needs, learning needs, science, pension pensions for pensioners, etc. And the people who got the trust of the citizens actually need to ensure all this. And when the state budget is discussed, it is one of the most important acts in one year, it is a policy that will be implemented specifically here in 2010 and for the first time we are projecting something that will be next 2 years. So three years from now, we're looking at what's going to happen in Croatia. For the first time, no one is saying in this assembly that it's a social and developmental budget. It is said to be stable, it is said to be fixed, it is said to be optimal, it should be said that it is crisis, or should be said that the budget that Croatia will launch is in economic terms because this year after a long period of economic downturn. However, I expected the Prime Minister to present this policy to us, a policy for the next 3 years, a policy for the period during which Croatia is rapidly preparing to join the European Union with the planned deadline of 2012. So I was expecting some concrete projects, I was expecting some concrete changes in politics, reforms that are expecting us, she's talking about difficult decisions. However, it all came down to some data on savings in this budget and what should possibly be done, and where we came from this is still questionable. However, I must say what has now happened after counterpart Linic, or Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy, that this still gives some optimism. So far, it has been refused to discuss tax policy reform, including Minister Schuker, before that, and the Prime Minister, they say. I think they're thinking at least I've gotten the impression that there's still something to be done in the tax system, the tax system. She talks we think, we analyze what it is with those 250 famous non-taxes that were determined by the Ministry of Finance a year and a half ago through the register. Too long to think, too long to analyze, we need urgent and long-term measures. I am not surprised that we are in such a situation because when I analyse how the government has detected the crisis in Croatia at all, then the result is the situation in which we are today. So in 2008, when there was already a global crisis, first as a financial and then economic crisis, we did nothing. Our budget just exploded in 2008, the increase in expenditure compared to 2007 was 13%, and when we analyze the period 2004 to 2008, GDP growth that does not have a good structure, it is based mostly on consumption than on the real sector, it has grown 39%. At the same time, budget expenditures grew 46%, these scissors or the difference of 7 index points, in fact, potentially caused the crisis, not only potentially but really caused the crisis. In 2008, nothing was done, it was budgeted as if we were in expansion, three rebalancing failed to prevent it because consumption was escalating, the first real rebalancing was only there somewhere in the 7th, 8th month. Why this budget is asked and why we in the SDP and here are joined by the IDS Clubs, and the HNS is considered not to be a good way to bring the budget. Because incomes and expenses are questionable. Why are the revenues questionable? Because they are based on economic growth, the truth is minimal, they could even agree that it would be good for Croatia to achieve a stagnation or a minimum growth of 0.5% of GDP, however, the question of tax revenues is questionable at this level. It is questionable because it does not count that we have already achieved unemployment which may be the last or the last 271 thousand at the Employment Service, which is not the opposition, not the responsible people in Croatia, but the employers say they are simply unable to maintain this level of employment and that we will be forced to fire still workers. Someone's talking about 50, someone's talking about 60, and I even think at this point that this number doesn't matter, it's something else. Which we ended in 2008 so before this escalation of the crisis in Croatia, with a employment rate of 44.5%. There is a 70% projected employment rate in the European Union somewhere, and we are on the verge of entering the European Union at a rate of 44.5% and they say a 70% employment rate would be desirable. No additional burden is possible, if I understand well that these other taxes are 2 billion and 220 million in the budget that this is a crisis tax, then the question is whether and will be able to achieve this when wages stagnate, they will probably fall, when more employees will fall. People also save in advance when they are employed and when they have safe receipts, they save because they fear uncertainty fear the future. So, we see that the decline in traffic was over 14% in retail that this would continue in 2010, not even a 23% rate, so one index point of VAT increase probably can't compensate for the decline in consumption and the decline in production, when you don't have consumption, you don't even have production. And finally, I would like to take the opportunity, three counties among which my county has sent a proposal to the hands, namely President Kosor. I don't know if that's what happened to you, Mr. Minister, really one difficult situation for families who educate kids in high school. And now their ride to school has been lifted. They made a proposal to participate in both municipalities and cities and county and in part the state budget. That wouldn't be more than it was in this year in half a year, even a little less. It would take about 207 million kunas to get rid of free transportation of all high school children in Croatia, but when agreed at the county level. They've calculated that even now that they're negotiating participation in transport that it's 30% less than when the state did. So, I appeal if it's possible for that 200 kuna per student of high school to be secured in this budget, because it's about 207 million kuna somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43138	Thank you very much, colleague Zgrebec. We have one application for correction of the alleged distinguished colleague Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, colleague Zgrebec, you said that in 2008, the government did nothing when it was seen that there was going to be a crisis, which is really not true. Here I'm going to say one of the measures that this government has done, and which was very important for all of this, I would say for the stability of the financial system that is extremely important for both the economy and for the rest, was the insurance of deposits from 100,000 to 400 thousand kuna. It's an extremely important measure, because if it hadn't been adopted, the question is where would our financial system be, but it was at the right time. Because if it hadn't been brought in then the bank deposits would have been withdrawn and, of course, the capital price would have been much, much higher. So here's an example that I believe you'll respect. There are others, but this I think is a real example of what the government did when it noticed that there is a crisis in the world and that this is likely to affect Croatia as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43140	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of distinguished counterpart Josip Leko. I saw your plate, but it wasn't a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, government representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I think the budget of the state is an opportunity and an obligation for each representative to say his view of economic policy or state fissus in that year and for a long period of years, because it reflects one policy, one state, one environment. So when we look at it that way, then this draft budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 could really be called a proposal of continuity. So nothing new in the Croatian development strategy. Nothing new even 17 years since the HDZ government adopted a stabilisation programme. And this period of 17 years characterized the development of Croatian society, Croatian economy and Croatian state with several deadly sins. For the sake of the public, this period has been marked and has determined today's economic strength and this draft budget is marked by a sin of wealth without work. Whether it happened through conversion and privatisation or corruption, which all this time was almost the main feature in our society. Another mortal sin is spending unearthed both states and citizens. And a lack of conscience. In other words, we eat the future of both our generation and ours. It also shows and reflects and works with this draft budget. Therefore, this draft budget provides for only costs and deficits. And the question of whether or not it will come true regardless of what remains a crisis tax and a crisis grip or a harrassor. So, Croatian politics continues with sin to take care just give us today. If this is added that in a cyclical period every few years or every other government, the marked sin of Croatian economic policy was a business without morals or other words not paying for goods and services in transport. It is not only immoral, it is the abduction of other people's work, but it is very, very much what I would say is unmotivating for the development of the Croatian economy and the progress of society as a whole. If we add to this the next sin that science without education and humanity had long dominated this area, politics without the principle and system of national values, then we could not expect a budget that would pave the way for Croatian development and ensure development either for a shorter or longer period. Why am I saying all this? Because often with colleagues in the Parliament who will decide on this budget, when we talk outside the cameras and when we say that we are not political, then they say this is no longer possible. It takes deep plowing and needs a deep turn in the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, if we think well of future generations. And I really believe in these people's honesty. And I believe that's what they even thought and said. But what happens when he comes to the pay phone and turns the camera or when his party colleagues listen to him in the back? Then he starts defending and impossible, so this proposal of the state budget is optimal and positive and, and, and, and, and. And we know he can't take it. I'm convinced that everyone here thinks so intimately. It is therefore very important to redefine national objectives. We have indeed had long-defined political or foreign-political and internal-political objectives, which is to join NATO and the European Union. But respected colleagues and colleagues, what will happen here we have entered NATO, so we will enter the European Union. Will it ensure that others think about our budget, deficit or the development of future generations? So we have examples of countries that have entered both NATO and the European Union, so it seems to me that even worse alive, corruption is even more pronounced and even more unsatisfactory. Therefore, we are about to define the development objectives, national development goals and reach a consensus on this before the future elections. Some things can't be painted politically. They are national and of national interest, sometimes independent of a shorter period of time. In today's debate, I have listened carefully, there is a debate about whether we have secured at this or that position an increase or we have maintained the level of consumption. In principle, you can't even increase anything because the nominal total amount of the budget is based on last year. In other words, we ignore inflation and the growth of needs, simply the growth of needs. But it is also logical that it cannot be increased because because of those sins that I have been talking about, it is impossible to expect that clean money will come on ice and invest in the Republic of Croatia. There are many reasons, there may be one tax burden, there may be unsettled land books, there may be a broken tax system but all together, for all together we are responsible. There is no other body in Croatia that creates and brings budgets, no other body that has sworn before the citizens that it will take care of their interest not in the present but in the future. The Chinese say nicely, "A smart man doesn't think what he's worried about right now but is waiting for him in the future.". That's not how we've been acting for almost 20 years. Let's just say that we can regulate or go through and fulfill all of this that we've planned in the budget. And if we finance this deficit that we are now thinking about how much it affects to promote development in any branch where Croatia can be competitive in Europe or in the neighbourhood, or in the world. I do not see any item such as this nor is it in the explanation, nor in the political performance has anyone said that we will develop or encourage science so that when citizens of the Republic of Croatia enter the European Union bar in human resources, they will be able and competitive to work where there are jobs and where smart governments have taken care of investment, development and future generations. We can argue now as much as we will and outwit us but the citizens know there are now, there's a matter of statistics but close to 300 thousand unemployed people. Is that an expression of satisfaction that we have managed to maintain the level of consumption at 120 billion kuna? If it's a pleasure, then we've missed out on our duties as agents. We have to take risks, we have to look for deals, consensus because this can't happen anymore. You all almost in the towers repeat that to me in the hallway. So much for this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43142	Thank you very much. We've got one report of correction of the quote and one replica. First of all, the correction of the quote is the distinguished colleague Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Leko, I've heard, I've perceived three allegations that I don't think are true. Nothing new in the budget, this budget just provides for a deficit and a policy without the principle of a system of values. This is a fellow Leko incorrectly precisely because this budget clearly testifies to a whole series of regulations in the legislative framework, thus ensuring the rights of different ministries, such as the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, regional development, the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43144	Thank you very much. And one replication, distinguished colleague Davorko Vidovic. Here you go, colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43145	I'm as prone as you, Joseph. Often call for consensus. But it's a pretty rough job. Only one who has authority can call upon a consensus, we cannot call on a consensus, we cannot secure it. And in order for one who is in power to call and provide a consensus to have the capacity to run the state, the responsible leadership of the state. This means the capacity to put its narrow party interest in a second plan and put first what is a national interest, even if it has lost power. That's what I was talking about here once. There is no such capacity as a certain ruling set in Croatia at the moment. Obviously, once again, something very bad will have to happen to us and cataclysmically to begin to think at all or to be forced by circumstances to say hey, I think these circumstances have already occurred. But as long as we have a sub-capacitated in the state sense, there is no political elite and no furniture, nor can it be. And maybe the ones who say they're right, here's the roll till it gets to the bottom. I appreciate the warning, but I think when we're looking for a consensus that we're all a little miraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43146	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43147	Dear fellow Vidovic, you certainly know that some national goals cannot be met, can be executed for one term, not for two mandates, nor for many generations of MPs. It does not matter who calls for a national consensus on national objectives, it is important that most of them see it regardless of who is in power now and I call for it. I call on the majority to offer national goals that need to be agreed on and changed policies and policies because this is no longer possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43148	Thank you very much. Follow the debate further. Dear colleague Nevenka Majdenic has applied. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43149	Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a quick look at the 2010 budget. I believe that in one objective analysis of the proposal, the budget should start from the basic year of the basic year, which is the year 2009 in which the focus was and will therefore be aimed at easing the negative consequences of the crisis and preserving macroeconomic stability by the end of the year. At such levels, according to the expected recovery of the world economy in 2010, and projections of our economic recovery are heading towards stopping further decline and beginning of GDP growth of 0.5%, moderate recovery of personal consumption and improving consumer optimism. For the first time this year in accordance with the Budget Law, the 2010 budget and projections are adopted for the next two years. Furthermore, the 2010 budget is adopted at the sub-group level means the third level of the accounting plan to be set up and the implementation controls for 2011 and 2012 at the level of the group of the second level of the accounting plan. This is important because the adoption of a higher budget is one of the key mechanisms that will give the ministries and other state bodies certain flexibility in the implementation of the budget because they are responsible for implementing their programmes but in line with the adopted budget. We must in no way ignore the fact that further macroeconomic developments due to the global economic crisis continue to be linked to a number of uncertainty, and this is primarily linked to the consequences of the crisis. Future developments at global level, as they have so far, will affect the movement of economic activity in Croatia. I guess, however, that for the perspective of economic recovery and growth in Croatia in the medium term, positive impacts come from the process of approaching membership in the European Union and further implementation of structural reforms as well as the possibility of using the European Funds. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown by budget that with less spending, with clear strategic priorities and well-designed programmes, development sustainability and social justice can be ensured. Some cuts have already been painful and some non-essential receipts have been abolished but those in need remain at the heart of budgetary priorities. Such a policy is the implementation of strategic objectives under expected macroeconomic conditions, they also conditioned the creation of such a state budget for 2010. The total revenues of the 2010 state budget are planned to amount to €112.8 billion, representing a growth of 1.5% compared to 2009. Incomes per species I would point out the one that is really important to me and which is good to me, which is that a 5% growth in taxes on goods and services is expected and due to the effect of an increased VAT rate per year. In the case of budgetary revenues, it is important to highlight the possibility that, if certain types of income are achieved with a better or faster intensity, a special salary and pension tax and other income may be abolished sooner or before the end of the year. In addition to taxes, the most important other source of income is contributions expected to be achieved slightly less than last year, so the 98.9% index, the total planned expenditure of the state budget for 2010 is higher by 0.8% since expenditure in 2009, however, it is important to stress that budget spending decreased compared to 2009. The increase in costs which do not reduce total expenditure is related to three really important elements, which is the adjustment of the Republic of Croatia in the accession process to the European Union, whose costs are 2 billion kuna in 2010. The second funding of projects is under the pre-accession programmes of the European Union, 432.2 million kuna. An increase in interest costs by about 1 billion kuna. The planned expenditures for 2010 are higher by 904 million kuna compared to 2009, while the expenditure increases mentioned above amount to 3.4 billion kuna. Therefore, when these expenditures are used to adjust the standards of the European Union and the growth of interest expenditure totalling €3.4 billion, except for the total expenditure for 2010, budget spending remains to be €118 billion in 2010, this is a significant reduction compared to 2009 when this same budget spending amounted to €119.4 billion. The largest item in the operating expenditures is compensation to citizens and households on the basis of insurance and other compensation of HRK 64.6 billion. Most of these expenditures account for pensions of HRK 34.6 billion, compared to the year of pension in 2010 growth by €582 million, due to the expected movements of the number of pensioners. Except for pensions, the abovementioned expenditure group also includes expenditures covered by health and social insurance regulations and other types of compensation that citizens and households receive from the budget irrespective of the means of insurance. Based on these planned expenditures of €112.8 billion and total planned expenditure of €121.4 billion, the government budget deficit in 2010 will be 8.6 billion or 2.5% of gross domestic product, thereby reducing the total deficit by 0.3% compared to the planned amount of 2009. The planned deficit in the state budget is visible in the budget of 8.6 billion kuna will be financed by the difference of total receipts from financial assets... In view of the macroeconomic situation which dictates the general conditions of economic activity and, indeed, realistic consideration of its own opportunities and respect for strategic plans, this draft budget ensures, in my opinion, the optimal meeting of the needs of the users of the budget and of social solidarity and justice towards the most sensitive layers of society. Here is why I will support the adoption of this 2010 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43150	Thank you very much to my colleague, Nevenka. Correction, replica is gone. And now there's a debate of distinguished counterpart Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43151	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So, we've been talking today all day, and I think we're gonna have a lot more to talk about. Some things we agree on, some things we disagree on. I'm not one who talks in the towers, and the other publicly, so all I'm saying is publicly, so I'm also talking about these measures that are so much obliged to simply reduce the number of people employed, that it's too many clerks and things like that. I'm looking at the data a little bit, and this data should repeat that civil servants have less than 2005 to 2008 for 2 thousand 645 and that public officials have over 10 thousand and 393. I would agree that there are too many civil servants, but whom, those who are too slow to solve the papers, those who are not working and who really are the ministers who will have to either make them work or really get them out of those places. So they're definitely excess. It's good that the state in the service is receiving young trainees, and it's bad that these trainees leave as soon as they grow up. Why? Because their salary is like a gym somewhere around four thousand kunas, when they grow up they have six and a half thousand kuna and whoever finishes a good job in the country, so the ministry goes private because they're going to get a lot more there. And that's what we have to worry about because actually the number of quality people we're reducing because our salaries are really too low for other sectors. I say again, to keep quality. What's with the public servants? There are 30, 40, 40,000 public officials removed, the number of public officials increased. Here's with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in three, four years almost for 6 grand and something, the Ministry of Health 3 thousand and 200, so of those 10,000 schools and health care make up nearly 10 grand. We're aware that nurses don't have enough. There'll be problems with doctors and bigger ones. That there are still very large numbers of students in schools and that it is very difficult to work, that there are no experts in schools, I'm talking about psychologists, educators, so there are simply no students, and because of that certain things are happening that shouldn't happen because I'm saying again, it's very difficult to raise children and because there's a lot of things to be educated from. So, it would be good to say who's too much then specifically specify too much of it, but not when the Civil Service Union or the Civil Service Union shows up here somewhere, and then we go to meet him, give him support, you know we're with you, etc. As soon as we turn around, we're already talking about having half a throw in the street, the rest are excess. So much for public behavior and behind the pillar, in the towers. And even if a cleanup started, I'm afraid we'd have problems with the opposition again, especially with the SDP because they'd say you're throwing only ours. It's not our fault you put so many of them all over the departments and all kinds of companies. Therefore, unfortunately, ours and yours would suffer, which may not be bad, so we would take some thirds. We always expect those unknowns to be the best, unknown rulers, unknown employers are always the best, but unfortunately, here we are, a small country, so we all know each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43152	Is that ours and yours?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43153	Yeah. Whether this budget is developed, not developed is difficult to say. Is the crisis, so sure, the crisis is here, he's adapted to the crisis. If we're saying politics is the art that's possible, I think this budget gives the maximum. Normally, there's a colleague and a colleague from the opposition then in the government that could've been better. We here, colleague, one of your colleagues gave us the right to speak freely about the period of the former government, the coalition government in which they are here, the SDP in which he led the coalition. But here and there, we remember, and then we all get all over her head, so what are you going back to? We're going back to tell people who ruled and who wanted to come to power. That's the only reason for all of it. If we're talking about what's been reduced to, we're talking about shipyards, you're really following up on the last few days, and we're getting data on how much money has been invested inside and what's been done. If it's about privatising the shipyard, it's not good, and at the same time we need to cut the budget, so we have to do either one or the other. I'll never forget it back in the '91s, here it is now, so when Savka Dabcevic said she was the worst owner of the state and that everything should be privatized urgently. Something's been tried, something done, unfortunately the wartime has brought its own. And that is exactly the wartime that today leaves the consequences, 5 to 6% of the budget unfortunately goes for the consequences of war events and it will take a very, very long time. And there you are, I don't think we can help. So much when we compare ourselves to countries that didn't have a war, which still went significantly better, which had a better chance and so on. As far as I'm concerned, here's what I hear is that spatial plans are blocked. There was something, there were locals who were buying land and land to manipulate it, but I'm not the one who could say something was blocked. Every city and municipality can re-purpose, so if we feel that someone bought the land, I'm talking about building land, with it going into some manipulation, so we change, we do it once, twice, and no one will ever do it again. ... In some parks, woods, change the agricultural area, so that, we can stop at the end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that a number of people in our house are waiting with the finished or the other end of the building permit, that's correct. They're just waiting for what's going to happen in the west that you're saying is stable, and it's not, so they're going to go with further investments. A whole series of entrepreneurs, I say, came along with projects and all, they already have almost, all consent, only they did not pay unfortunately municipal contributions, and we dropped those communal contributions as much as possible and others could. I agree that there are some taxes to be discussed, such as water contributions. I know that here are Croatia's waters and all those who work have done a lot, extremely much in the recovery of streams, the cleaning of predators, the arrangement of rivers. But it's quite a weight on investors. And there you should also think about as well as what is more important at this point, whether to let investors invest a little more cheaply or clearly in stopping some works. So we could talk about it for a long time, but I'm into yellow light, so I won't. I'm hoping you'll move on. Finally, the night is coming. There's a colleague who's got a yellow minute, so I'm gonna break it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43154	Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Analyzing this Budget Proposal raises the question of how to evaluate it? Developed, realistic, social certainly not, but that's why he's too optimistic. In the first part of my debate, I will look back at one of the areas that the Government programme has drawn, but unfortunately it is not available in this draft budget. In the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the period from 2018 to 2011, Chapter 17. – Health care, hospital treatment is the item. Palitative care and hospice to be included in the health system network next to the reference centre. The deadline of December 2008 Today, one year after that, unfortunately, we have to realise that none of these were realised, and since this 2010 Budget proposal is evident with a projection for 2011 and 2012 of hospices, i.e. no paliative care exists. In Chapter 19 of the Accession Report, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to inform the European Union of the availability of healthcare for particularly vulnerable groups, and to submit a report on the availability, quality and sustainability of the provision of palitative care in the Republic of Croatia and on the possibilities of its evaluation. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia does not have in its entire territory any modern institution of paliatical care involved in the health system as well as a developed system of education in the field of paliatical care at all levels. Quality Palitative Care would mean that in each region there must be a hospice building with rooms for lying patients as well as a living room for those who can still move. Psychological counselling not only for the dying but also for his family, and mobile visitation teams for those who still decide to die in their own home. Although the Health Protection Act stipulates that in every home of health there must be mobile teams for palimatic care in larger cities and regional centres, and a living room, and legal provisions are ignored for years and citizens are deprived of their rights. The hospital "Croatian Pride" in Knin actually has all the conditions to become the first such centre in Croatia with minimal financial resources. It is in this department that persons are placed at a terminal stage who are not for the hospital of the acute type, and they need medical supervision. The problems we face, apart from natural direct finances, are a contract with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, i.e. defining the price of services in extended treatment or a step further delimitation of extended treatment of hospice and semi-intense care. Because what the hospital is doing right now is not prolonged treatment, but semi-intense care and hospice, but actually the least prolonged treatment. There is no standard for this kind of therapy and care. Those categories aren't the same and don't cost the same. And the task of the ministry must be to make standards in agreement, of course, with the profession. All these requirements are addressed to the Ministry of Health and Social Care and to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and all agree that it is necessary, that it is good and that Knin has all the conditions to be the first such centre for the region. But, of course, it's not going into the project itself. The first step would be to equip the department, for the start of 9 beds at a minimum price of 3 and a half thousand kuna. That is 31500 kuna per day, or 950,000 kuna per month. Paliatical care is part of the right to health care in 120 countries of the world and part of the European Union's legislation. We are left with the hope that our government too will force our accession negotiations into the European Union to enable its citizens to do so. In accordance with the above, I believe that paliative care is one of the basic human rights to health care, and it must be included in the health policy of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organization. In the second part of the debate, I will look back at the position of the city of Sibenik and the County of Sibenik-Knin, noting concern about the systematic collapse of the city and the county. That in favor speaks unfortunately of a series of facts. It is the abolition of the Telecom Centre, the relocation of mail, the reduction of FINA, the announcements of the shut-down of police administration, the state's attorney's office, the Commercial Court, the closure of hundreds of high-level jobs, and the long-standing devastation. Most of the most attractive particles of crucial importance for the new Sibenik development are not fully Sibenik or state-owned but are either partly mortgaged in favour of an foreign majority owner such as the TEF space or are under the burden of unclear contractual obligations regarding the recovery of space, also TEF. At the same time, most of the medium and smaller, mainly urban and county projects are either in severe negatives or in chronic delays such as collectors, swimming pools in Crnica, Sibenik-Knin roads, railway and highway connections with the industrial zone... or a permanent layout of the City Museum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of the great state promises such as the location of the Coast Guard in Sibenik, and the airport in Pokrovnik, of course, there is nothing like modernising Adriatic connections to the Sibenik islands on which the oldest ships and ferrys from its fleet traffic. Most of the county's responsibilities are followed by villages in Zadar which, in combination with disproportionately large budgets, are being poured into Zadar, compared to the miserable ones assigned to Sibenik. In the end, Sibenik is really turning into a third-class city, despite its go, economical, natural, it is a city with two national parks, a traffic, cultural, it has the UNESCO cathedral of St. Jacob, the tourist and historical specialities and advantages, and the fact that the city is a hero of the Homeland War. It is also enough that all major Adriatic cities have organized archives other than Sibenik, that all have the scientific departments of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts other than Sibenik, that they have also a branch of the queen of the emigrants of Croatia and the restoration workshop, and an incomparably greater offer of educational, museum, theatre, sports and cinema facilities. Unfortunately, as in previous years, Sibenik has also been neglected and marginalized by this draft budget. As far as the budget is concerned, I can say except that it is unrealistic and overly optimistic, and if it were achieved, it would be a budget of stagnation and survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43156	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43157	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The budget is always a financial expression of a particular economic policy. And the Croatian government's policy in continuity is now something we can say for the consequence of the economic and social situation characterized by the following features. So far unrecorded economic downturn of over 6%, an external debt of more than 40 billion kuna, with a trend of further growth, a 22% drop in exports, a 15% drop in consumption, overall indifference and what is the most difficult and scary escalating unemployment. Here are some more achievements. Croatia had 150 strong municipalities 90 years ago, now over 5 hundred, but they are weak. They are fiscally powerless and largely dependent on the state register. Croatia is today a country where everything, from public procurement to football matches, can be bought from health to diploma. Of course the price is high. Corruption costs Croatian citizens 10 billion kuna a year. It's huge money. That corruption is less or even better that corruption is much less should not increase VAT from 22% to 23%, and not introduce a hacker. The overall tax increase effect and much more than that unfortunately eats corruption. I'll remind you that the Constitutional Court has recently made a decision on the fact that he's been suspended. As a result of such a decision, the 2010 budget will provide a budget of 40 million kuna for the new offices to be arranged by the Constitutional Judges. Unfortunately, the 2010 budget represents a continuation of the same strategy, the same economic policy, the policy for today, no policy for tomorrow. Minister Shuker himself, I am sorry that he left, said of this budget that he is such, quote: "If the economy and citizens can finance him at this time with such tax burdens, and in order for his spending party to be reduced it is necessary to implement many reforms." The minister therefore openly admitted that it was going through a line of less resistance and that there was actually no political will or political power to change things. And actually that indisposition of the Government to change, that inaction, that emphasis on the status quo, that's something that I think is actually the greatest responsibility of the Croatian government. First of all, it does not want to reform the state administration, and so massive and ineffective as it is then literally millstone is around the door of Croatia. In the last 15 years, the budget has tripled, and the service to citizens for paid taxes has not increased. In fact, in Croatia, it is not even known exactly how many employees it is in public services and public administration. It's estimated to be 260 to 270 thousand. Only in the past few years, rather than reducing the number of public administration employees, HDZ has hired new tens of thousands of people in the state apparatus. The government has actually become a place of care for the likes and merits. Unlike 6 years ago, when a 17 billion-a-year budget has been paid by civil servants and public services, 25 billion are being allocated today, or nearly a quarter of the state budget. So each fourth budget kuna goes to the state apparatus and public administration for services that citizens cannot possibly be satisfied with. The government's responsibility is in the absence of genuine anti-recession and incentive measures. As effective as government's anti-recession measures are, I'm just going to back this one example. Of the 200 million kunas secured 3 months ago in the state budget for support for the preservation of jobs, only 14 thousand kunas were used, and I stress one approved request from the Croatian Employment Service for only one number and letters. In fact, the law is inconclusive. Since no company that has debts to the state can obtain jobs, and the fact that companies are in a position to settle their obligations, in which case they would not seek support from the State. This budget, as many before me have said, is unreal and unreal, primarily because it is conjectured on wrong assumptions. As wrongly said that the Croatian crisis is the result of the global crisis, economic recovery in the international environment is now being recalculated in the 2010 budget. This envisions a half-percent growth of gross domestic product, and when it comes to personal consumption, it is expected to recover moderately, according to budget reasoning, primarily due to the recovery of consumer optimism. Contrary to this found optimism, the professional Croatian public warns against the list of over-indebted companies, and it is highly likely that Croatia could flood the wave of bankruptcy and religious takeover of companies in the coming year, and then eventually the wave of cancellation. It is estimated that 50,000 workers will be out of work, as a result of the country's long-term deindustry and that we will have over 300,000 unemployed in the spring. The worst part is that Croatian citizens have fallen into their kind of depression and fear and don't actually see how they move on. Those who have, they save not knowing what's going to happen tomorrow. Of course, money is immobilized in banks and does not turn to retail, and so again, only banks profit, and the state loses. And just in the end a few words about what the Međimurians get with this budget for 2010. Of course, the citizens of Međimurje County cannot be satisfied with such a proposed budget because what few of the previous years received from the state register is now being further cut. For example, in 2010, we will not get funding for regional development. In 2009, we received some 1.6 million kuna from that title. And we will not get funds to boost the fiscal capacity of municipalities and cities that amounted to just over two million kunas in 2009. The explanation is that we no longer meet the criteria. That we're actually too economical. At the same time, traditional productions are collapsing in Međimurje County and hundreds of people end up on the labour market. So there is neither what we have received in previous years, and it is therefore entirely unrealistic to expect support from the state budget for some new projects. That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43158	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43159	Thank you. A colleague incorrectly stated that the Regional Development Fund will get nothing from Međimurje County. In fact, regional development goes according to a new division in a way that is divided towards statistical regions and for a statistical region in which Međimurje County is intended for a minimum of 18 million kuna. So far more than you usually get. So it depends on the agility and local government of the programme on how much it will benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43160	Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43161	Dear colleagues, you said that the Međimurje County was not given the funds because it was strong. And I wonder, then, as a representative from Vukovar-Srijem County, given the reduced funding in the area of agriculture, which is not much to talk about, and that is exactly what we depend on. Since there is no mention of the Danube-Sava to the extent to which it has been announced, etc. Then what about us? Obviously, they measured something different than they looked.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43162	Replication response, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43163	Yes, my colleague, you're absolutely right. And I'll only comment very briefly. This will obviously be a year of relying on its own local forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43164	Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalić. He's gone. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of the state budget is, in fact, always causing major controversy at all levels, from political, economic, social, etc. However, the adoption of the budget during the crisis period in which Croatia is located without a clear indication of exit from the crisis requires further analysis, consultation, reflection, vision of the budget. Croatia should not miss the crisis as an opportunity to correct the system. Why do I say that? So I'm going to quote a researcher from the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies, who last year said, "You can't expect better results if you don't change your behavior." So he continues: "These are the results of the policy that led to this crisis, the crisis itself has shown the unsustainability of this policy." Listening to colleagues on the left who were embellishing the story of the state budget, so on a very professional basis, I can't say a very professional opinion about our Mr. Strategy's budget in the economy when he said it was a survival budget, it was said to be optimal, it was a real budget, etc. It reminded me of that story about the mirror in magic when it was asked for "The Mirrors, the Mirrors, tell me who's the most beautiful person in the world." However, each budget reflects in the economy mirror. A situation of visions of development, i.e. the situation in the country. And that's exactly why ours can't be good. We don't produce for our own consumption, credits are taken, money is taken from other people. Citizens do not believe in the magic mirror, citizens also need to know that the big problem in the following year is the return of the dues, which is 43 billion kuna. That's more than a third. It means every third kuna in your pockets goes to the ones you borrowed from. We spend in advance. And the situation is that 450 workers are out of work a day. Consumer consumption has fallen, purchasing power is growing, indifference of production, reduced income from profit tax, income etc. We heard representative Linic appeal, and I will repeat that Croatia should urgently turn and create a market or find policies to fight the battle for the Croatian economy. Listing this budget, it is evident that it has fallen significantly, i.e. full support is being abolished to prevent domestic violence, to combat the abuse of intoxicated drugs, to protect the environment of sustainable development, to protect human rights, to protect the rights of persons with disabilities. While on the other hand even increasing some support to the ministries, which directly says that the state does not want to give up ideas, that only the government sector can provide services which are contrary to the European Union's requirements for decentralisation and deinstitutionalisation of Croatia and strengthening the civil sector. This reduction is in the implementation section, not in the work of various government offices and ministries dealing with this problem. So the reduction is about supporting the civil sector that is working directly on this issue. I will also say that professional guidance and information and retaining existing employment, in fact, this support decreases, although we are in a total crisis. On a few occasions today, we've heard how many workers are out of work every day. This position usually helps retraining and measures that should help people to keep their jobs easier and find a new one. Generally, aid in employment where the state should provide funds and which would be logical given the crisis it is now. As far as the Ministry of Health and Social Care is concerned, we can see that the budget is also reduced. However, the minister says savings will not be on the expense of patients and on account of preventive programmes. It also announces a continuation of health reform. We've heard about this health reform. On the one hand, we have a happy once-in-a-lifetime euphoric minister. On the other hand, we have dissatisfied citizens, dissatisfied colleagues, doctors. Thus, the principle of solidarity on which the entire health system is actually based has been compromised. When we look at that health reform or the health reform program, we see that there is an increase of 100%. However, when we now go according to paragraphs then we see that the humanization of the hospital's treatment department of children is a reduction, the means of preserving oral health has nothing, the prevention of addiction has been reduced. Then, the improvement of the hospital health care system as well. We heard a little earlier from a colleague who's been improving his palitative care has no means whatsoever. Emergency medical care has no means whatsoever, although an emergency medical emergency reform has been announced. In the last two years, we know that the reduced funds for the regular functioning of hospitals, etc. Therefore, it is not clear to me that all this will not negatively affect the health of our citizens. I would also say that, as far as health care is concerned, when we talk about the crisis or the imbalance, then we have to say that if we want to cut costs then there should be the most means to prevent, in fact, the biggest income for prevention, then for treatment or curative resolution and at least for an administrative apparatus that we cannot see through this budget. This morning we also heard the prime minister say that if there are no amendments, then the opposition is aware that it has nowhere to go and then defined that the budget is balanced. However, colleagues and colleagues this fictitious budget planning with a pre-arranged rebalancing, justifying such a budget is actually a rude insult to the public and citizens who are already exhausted by this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43166	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43167	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to replicate to my esteemed colleague, Štimac, when he is actually asking a question and thinking loudly about how to fight a battle for the Croatian economy, how to protect the environment, fight the abuse of intoxicated drugs, strengthen the civil society sector, help in employment, etc. I agree with you, Mrs. Stimac. However, here I am going to tell you my actual experience in the area of my County of Sibenik-Knin that in the last four years, thanks to the financial assistance on capital projects by the state, here I am sorry for this expression but 3 billion kunas have been spent all in order to improve the standard of all residents starting from pre-school children to third-aged people. I'll also tell you an example that the County of Sibenik-Kninska has two hospitals with the status of general hospitals. I will also tell you that in the last five years, the city of Sibenik has been in the term of my mayoral or mayoral mandate to improve the quality of life in economic, infrastructure, municipal, sports, social and cultural terms, starting from pre-school children to caring for third-aged people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43168	The answer to Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Klaric. See, you were lucky to have won so much for Sibenik. Here I have before me also taken out that we are getting in this budget for Dubrovnik, so I can say that the policy of continuity continues and that continuity of bad, nothing new. I must stress that here I will point out the University of Dubrovnik reduction was at all universities, but the biggest reduction is right at the University of Dubrovnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43170	Second replica, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Tatjana, I didn't mean to, but I have to replicate because you've shown that the minister today is in his euphoric performance, in that context you wanted to say something. Obviously, you didn't follow enough. In fact, the minister just wanted to say that this year's or current draft budget is what is now the only possible solution. On the contrary, you seem to be mentioning here immediately in your opening presentation it looks like you are offering us a rescue solution in his name. And you're obviously talking about the person who's talking about 2010 today, and that's how the draft budget has given one forecast and said one prognosis that's more than catastrophic. Well, here, I had to replicate, I couldn't agree with those catastrophic forecasts because they didn't show up before exactly when you were talking about other forecasts, about bankruptcy. I have already said that the only solution is to bring the International Monetary Fund, etc. So obviously your forecasts and visions don't exactly stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43172	Reply to the replica of Ms. Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43173	Thank you very much, Mr. Matkovic. ... Not actually today, Mr. Minister spoke, but I said that when Mr. Minister speaks about health reform, then he says it with great optimism, which is very often bordering me with euphoria and on the other hand we have reality, dissatisfaction of end-users or patients, or our citizens, and also our doctor. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] So much for health reform. That's what I said. And as for the mention of fellow Linic, I agree in the discussion what he said and assessed and it would also be signed, and whether that assessment was disastrous or not, he was only realistic in his statements today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43174	Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few comments not so disastrous, of course, as colleagues on the other hand, where I would like to point out however and what is positive, and I think it's much easier for us to defend exactly that in the budget, the draft budget for 2010, than to attack colleagues from the opposition, which we see really have no ammunition, no amendments, no more serious activities that would be able to shake and change into essence and try to change this budget at all. Just because this is an optimal one and I'm going to say exactly what we've repeated several times, the best possible budget for 2010 that can be done at this point according to the projections that exist. Of course, it's not a sacred letter that over the year, if it comes and we all count on it to happen, to increase the income to go and towards abolishing the crisis tax, to go to budget rebalancing, means to repair it as much as possible and necessary over the year. However, I would like to comment here that certain items give a positive view and optimism when we look at the 2010 budget, so that we can see that social justice is strengthened, that pensions continue to grow in line with agreed terms with pensioners, that care for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War is growing. And I am sorry that some colleagues see this as a negativity, and the increase in the amount for the participants of World War II seems to be a perfectly normal thing for them, and when Croatian defenders need to be separated from which they swear more in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, then it is literally a revolution. There are also family benefits and child benefits, unemployment benefits are growing, so care is being taken for those who have lost their jobs during this year, and in particular is looking forward to investing in tourist facilities, i.e. in positioning Croatia as one of the leading European tourist destinations. Of course, there is special attention dedicated precisely to bringing Croatia closer to Europe because Europe is for Croatia right now the future. It is necessary to consider and strengthen both administrative capacities and absorption capacities so that they can withdraw and spend quality on all the funds offered from the European Union, they open up to Croatia. We know that only in two years it is 3.4 billion euros, and every year after that 2 billion euros per year, means nearly 15 billion kuna per year of possible income is opened to Croatia right from European access or structural funds, and this is one opportunity that we need to take advantage of. This is one of the best ways to increase revenue and in our budget, of course, to spend it qualityly on developing small and medium-sized enterprises, further developing local administrations, further developing infrastructure. Let us look at what is happening and works in Europe with the European Union's resources. See the Czech Republic, see Slovakia, see Poland where thousands of kilometers of fast modern highways, roads, build with 85% of EU grants. It is up to us to prepare quality programmes, projects, project documentation and in resolution ministries, of course, units of local self-government, regional self-government, to be prepared over a year, two, three large funds to withdraw and thus increase exactly the revenues, of course and expenditure in our budget in the coming years. The main objectives of this budget have already been repeated several times. This means retaining macroeconomic stability which creates a positive, one good position for us and in case of a need for new borrowing, maintaining budget stability, of course and stabilising the economy as planned and through various measures to develop a competitive economy. When we talk about the economy itself, we see that it is also coming here, precisely creating an optimal atmosphere for the development of competitiveness, increasing the isolation by certain items, and thus the development of markets and businesses is coming to an increase and strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, an increase of almost 7%, the promotion of exports and investments, industrial development and restructuring where special attention is paid to industrial branches that are in major problems, meaning to the wood industry, the textile industry and to further develop the labour market where, for example, almost 30% are increasing funds compared to the year in the 2010 plan. But here, when I talk about the economy, I must comment on the presentation of colleague Goran Marić, who spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, that, with all that Croatia invests in the development of the small and medium-sized economy, we are coming up with the amazing data that has been presented here today, that over the past ten years, entrepreneurs have kept the profit of 220 billion kuna. 222 billion kuna in ten years retained profits by employers who, according to the opposition, are not satisfied with both this budget and some previous budgets that continue to invest in the economy, in the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. They've been keeping 222 billion kunas for the past ten years. Imagine that only 100 billion were given to workers, employees for new employment over the past ten years. It's a billion kuna a year. The number of new employees, new job openings would take place in the Republic of Croatia, almost zero unemployment rates. Unfortunately, there was no such thinking, there was no such solidarity and I say, with surprise I listened and received information from my colleague Maric about these incredible amounts. Here's another comment that almost 90% of the budget is set, it's not a defence, it's facts because we know and we see here that pensions are not being reduced, that continued payments to the public sector, that, in parallel with that, public administration reform is being planned, we come up with the fact that almost 90% of the budget is being set up here and planned through various budget expenditures. And I think that this is one basic component and one basic fact that both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia planned to keep all expenditures in the 2010 budget plan. Of course, I will support the 2010 budget with the hope that there will be real growth, further growth in tax revenues, growth in the budget as a whole, and an increasing consumption of grants from European pre-accession and accession funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43176	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43177	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, it's not my fault Correction of an incorrect quote. [[It's the electricity!]] The budget is not given, but the budget is, or is not given to us, but the budget is done. The government has proposed such a budget, the Parliament has accepted it or if you want the parliamentary majority. Therefore, this matter in the budget is not confused or cemented, but the budget as it is drawn up can be drawn up in a significantly different way than this situation is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43178	Two replicas. First is Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43179	Thank you very much. Well, counterpart Huška, this information about the net profit of 222 billion kuna, and while increasing unemployment points to and points out that many managers and employers are only thinking of themselves, not of the general good, that they cannot reconcile general interests with personal interests, that they are not directed in the same direction. This also suggests that they probably dream of such a dream as the main character from that popular family relationship series where they sleep in a room on a pile of bills. And in that material abundance, these many managers and employers get a little bit lost, and St. Francis wrote that a man will only find himself when he forgets himself. And the way things are, they still don't forget about themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43180	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43181	I agree with my colleague completely with your thinking. I come from the war of the lost end from the western Slavonia and the cities of Lipik and Pakrac where, unfortunately or fortunately, we have not met with such people, with such entrepreneurs dreaming of a mountain of money, driving in limos, buying expensive speedboats, boats. In our area live and work small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are doing just investing in the economy, further activities in the development of their crafts, small businesses that pay their salaries fairly and regularly to their employees and who live modestly in accordance with the possibilities of the largest population of the Republic of Croatia. And these tycoons and people with a lot of money haven't come to our ends yet, and I hope that, with the encouraging measures that go through the Ministry of Economy, precisely towards small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen along with their further development and in areas of special state care and throughout the Republic of Croatia, that such mega entrepreneurs will slowly die out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43182	Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43183	Well, a colleague and a lot of speakers before him are talking about this assignment, including the Prime Minister at 87, 90 as anyone says. However, we do not dispute that. We criticise such a way of structuring the state budget. We say that it is unsustainable because long-term incomes, tax revenues based solely on consumption and labour alone are unsustainable. Therefore, what the Prime Minister announced in the second part of her presentation, as the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy, Mr Schuker here said that some analyses are actually beginning to be carried out to expand the circle of those who pay taxes. The unsustainable situation is that only employees of a newer time and pensioners pay taxes. Pay's high, gross pay's high because they're high gross pay. It's an unsustainable situation for the economy, and net wages are low. They can't cover the basic needs of life. An alarming fact is that the average wage that does not meet the needs, the minimum needs of a four-member family is burdened by almost 50% of something with gifts, slightly higher wages over 50%. It's an unsustainable condition, and that's why we're talking. It's not a budget. The structure of the budget has to change, and in order to change it, reforms must go and amendments to the law must go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43184	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43185	Thank you, colleagues. In the good part, I agree with your exposure. Maybe the word mission isn't the right word. Maybe it's a word of budget planning in these gauges with facts, postulates standing by that budget is a better explanation. However, I cannot agree that overnight spending needs to be reduced, so those specific items in the budget can be reduced in a way that reduces pensions, reduces the number of public administration employees, in health care, in school overnight. Such thinking does not pass in the Croatian democratic community, and fortunately neither with coalition partners. We think differently. You know that health reform started this year. It's going well. The prime minister announced a public administration reform that is being prepared and will start for a year and gradually reduce the participation and structure of these set items that we cannot withdraw from today except in the way you propose to reduce pensions overnight, to fire 30, 40,000 people in public administration, state administration, health and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43186	Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43187	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, here's what to say at the beginning? Here's what I've been really trying to do with any excess analysis. The first budget when I became a representative in the House that came in 2008 was still like something else. Last year, this budget was so elaborated that any analysis could not be done more seriously, and if you're looking at this document that's in front of us, it's the most transparent document, I think it's sent to the procedure. There are all items replaced, changed, there is absolutely nothing and it is difficult to do any more serious analysis. So it's no wonder what's on the last one. Last year's adoption of amendments by opposition deputies, related to the budget, and later on regarding budget rebalancing, happened that simply the minister said that the amendments were not well-written, that they were not well written and that that is why they could not be respected. Well, of course it is true, because for 18 years there was one practice in this Croatian Parliament, the submission of amendments, then all MPs could have submitted amendments, it was not strange, but last year or, this year, and this year there was enlightenment, suddenly none of the MPs were more able to sign the amendment. Which is odd at least, since she was 18 years old they were capable, as they were now one year incapable. Well. Minister, it's your right to think whatever you want. I'm just saying what my point is. Unfortunately, in this budget, which has a deficit of over 8 billion kuna, the truth is that the deficit is 4 times greater than the 2003 Racan government deficit, which was at 2 billion and 180 kuna levels. So in this budget the deficit, meaning the uncovered income, the uncovered expenditure by income is 4 times higher than in 2003. I think it's enough data in itself, if any deficit is ever mentioned here as any alibi. Furthermore, with regard to the projections of the macroeconomic projection of economic growth of 0.5%, I would now not analyse whether they are justified or not justified. In any case, 50,000 people have lost their jobs in the past year and so much so according to Djura Popijac, who is the current economy minister from the beginning of this year will remain in this year and that is something they did not make a mistake in last year, but I don't know if the minister thinks he's going to make a mistake this year. So it's about me being able to doubt or not suspect that number, but it's not as problematic as it's problematic that it's just from the base of income contributions, meaning that it's being allocated as a tax burden on labour that's going to rise to 1.1%. In the year in which 50 thousand people will lose their jobs, contributions to work will grow by 1.1%. I don't know, I mean, at the very least, I don't think it's serious, and at the same time, I'm planning to increase VAT revenues by 11%. In this year, VAT revenues dropped more than 10%. It means that income from VAT would be realised, and that people should spend more, i.e. they have available income. If in two years 100 thousand people lose their jobs, if people are introduced by a crisis ringer, if their income is reduced, if they have less to spend, how then VAT revenues can rise by 11%, because on the other hand taxes from contributions to work are also... I mean, here, it's something that's really, really in the least unserious and I really wouldn't come with such a document here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What also worries is that essentially no serious reform, not that it is not embedded in the budget, but unfortunately it is not, is not even visible. I would like the budget to be created by the Minister of Economy himself, which was appointed, but we heard from media announcements from the prime minister who said that the budget was actually agreed with coalition partners, and therefore the new Minister of Economy to offer Croatia a way out of the crisis, which agreed and agreed with the 26 SDP anti-recession measures, is not allowed in any way to sucre the budget. And that's something you can clearly see. Here, I'll read you a few items from the Ministry of Economy. Here, for example. for shipbuilding subsidies, now does this mean that people in the sector are fired because subsidies are e.g. In shipbuilding, they reduce three times. Does that mean firing people in the shipyard next year? Well, then, for example. The reform of the energy sector is a flaw of 8%, and just a few weeks ago we had a strategy of energy development that was accepted as a strategy that Croatia will sail in the new energy direction by 2020, and for the implementation of the energy development strategy, the energy system does not even write it. Here's what I didn't find. Well, that doesn't say here. You see, for example. Encouraging the development of a small economy will increase the figure next year by 20 thousand kuna. Here, so with 20 thousand kuna we will encourage the next year to develop a small economy. That's some data that obviously can't be good. Here for exports and foreign investments is projected to increase, meaning to boost exports of only 2%. I think it is the strategic document of the European Union to get the European Union out of the crisis that needs to be stimulated by exports, which should relieve the economy, which ultimately needs to be freed from certain tax duties on economic operators, and free the population. For the population is what they will spend and which will achieve economic growth. However, the figures are best said in Croatia. Here's a few foreign investments last year were 50%. We've got half our foreign investments in half. I listened to the European Commission's report on growth in investment in new technologies within the European Union by 7% the other day. So within the European Union, investments in new technologies have increased by 7%, these are investments that generate the highest added value, and which bring directly the greatest benefit to the economy. In Croatia, the drop in foreign investment is 50%. No one's coming to us. First of all, three reasons. The constant increase in taxes, the unstable tax system, means in this year as the whole of Europe reduces taxes, we have increased them, the SDP has proposed 26 anti-recession measures, not one has passed. I can understand that there is no anti-recession measure if you have better measures, but if you don't have any measure to refuse anti-recession measures, I don't understand it. So an unstable tax system, an increase in taxes while the entire European Union reduces taxes. Then credit risk. It's because of us, every year we get pucks, regular World Bank pucks. Reduced, so let's say the uncertainty in state finances has increased among other things and the credit risk that affects the price of capital that banks bring here money and offer to our citizens. That's how it is, for example. This... as he is called in Croatia came to even an unprecedented 530 index points in one period, which says that citizens precisely because of an unregulated public administration are greater interest up to 5%. Well, that's the same thing to say. This is also a direct consequence of how the state treats budgetary users and investors. The third reason is a huge indifference for which we all know that over 23 billion are added to craftsmen and business entities, 104 thousand people are directly threatened at this time in insolvency companies that are unable to collect their claims, while Europe has reduced its payment deadlines from 60 days to 30 days, in Croatia the average payment deadline is around 270 days. That you have, that's official statistics, that's someone's doing. And in that system, I'm also wondering based on this budget, how things can develop further. Here's what I'm going to say about agriculture, because agriculture is going to run out of $384 million or 8.6% this year. The health ministry also remains with less money, for preventive programmes. Who's going to run out of subsidies in agriculture this year? I think we should be interested in that. I think we'd be interested to know who's getting fired in the shipbuilding. These are the questions to be answered. Fifty thousand people who are going to be out of a job this year. And why I do not have any reform measures or any intention to implement reform measures through any item in the state budget. Here's to me, for example. It's funny, but I'm going to say it again, that only 20,000 kuna are provided to encourage the development of a small economy compared to last year. Well, that's funny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43188	Three corrections, two replicas. First Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43189	Well, Mr. Bernardic made a series of false allegations. And the first quote is in the first sentence, is that this is the most non-transparent document he's ever seen. I can only confirm that this is quite the opposite. That this is a very reviewed document. That just about all the MPs praised and even on your part, the transparency of this document. And you know it's come into existence under the new Budget Act, which has been in force since 1 January 2009. Another incorrect allegation that the new economy minister was not allowed to collect this budget. As far as I understand the minister and our prime minister this morning, this is the budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a whole and the entire government agrees with this budget and it has proposed it to us as such. Also, when it comes to indifference, there may be inequitableness, but when we talk about the state, this morning it was also said by the minister, not one time nor salary, nor pensions in the Republic of Croatia in 2009. So, I don't think you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43190	Second Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43191	Well, my colleague put out a whole series of incorrect allegations. I'll try to fix three quick. The first is 10% reduction in VAT revenue. Where you saw it, I'd really like you to show us where it is, so the rest of us can see where it is. Secondly, the SDP is forbidden to sucreate the budget. So please tell me who banned you. The Deputy Prime Minister or someone else so we know then why you didn't co-create through the 2010 amendment budget. And third, you said this was the most non-transparent document. And I'm telling you that this is the best analytically designed element, that it has the most details, the most complete explanations. You may have trouble getting along in that document. So, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Minister, I would suggest that you prepare for the next budget a single pocketed release for the SDP deputies so that they can find certain items, and perhaps which amendment they can then prepare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43192	Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43193	In fact, the colleague found that for export incentives, the Republic of Croatia singles out only 2% more than last year, so it is the impression that this is something that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has turned its back on. In fact, you forget one fact, which is that in the last three years through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it has been placed on the Croatian economy by around 10 billion kuna of support funds for export programmes. In this year I have the data allocated 445 loans to exporters of 3.36 billion kuna for export support. Then you don't need to look so closely at that budget. And that's where you really threw these numbers so that a man could fix it all day.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43194	Replica, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43195	Well, I'd like to replicate to you my colleague Bernardich as far as the farmer is concerned. So they will really be in a very complex situation next year, because the ministry made a decision two days ago to abolish the Capital Support Regulation, which means they will not get a return on capital investments next year. On the other hand, yesterday, when we discussed pre-accession programmes, we said that the SAPARD was implemented in 60% in 4 years and that indeed the SAPARD agency was not trained even to support farmers' institutions to secure in the following year from the SAPARD, i.e. the IPARD, that farmers could receive a return on capital investments. Unfortunately, the government has gotten used to farmers that, without any criticism, they can get a return on capital investments, so it was enough to buy a big tractor or build a big building, and then the Ministry of Agriculture pays you 50%. And now it's overnight and it's quiet that none of the farmers know how to break that rule and it's not even known that capital support will be paid at all next year. And on the other hand, farmers will be faced with the situation that they will not be able to invest because they are returning to a completely different system, which is that they will have to apply to IPARD. It's something that will seriously shake the investments in agriculture next year. But since there is no goal in the budget as much as we want to increase agricultural production, it obviously doesn't matter. It seems to me that those who were supposed to have bought tractors, and for the rest of them, people in the government are pretty fucked up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43196	The reply to the replica, Mr. Bernardnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43197	Well, you have well noticed that it was used by SAPARD 60%, and the reason probably lies because the state must subsidise a certain part of that programme, and on the other hand there is so-called. direct subsidies. And you can't get both. And then it's easier for you to go on direct subsidies than for someone to try to use more funds from the European Union. I would also like the level of support at HBOR level for this year to remain at least at the level last year. But what's worrying, we had that opportunity to have a president... and HBOR on the trail of what I was saying was that for the first time in Croatian history, HBOR is introducing a liquidity credit line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That hasn't happened yet. For liquidity, companies that are in debt, which cannot collect their claims, could survive the year. There are 104 thousand people who are directly at risk at this point and 14 months of liquidity growing, no proposal for resolution of liquidity and fate over 100,000 people we have not received and we have suggested, our proposals have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43198	Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43199	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bernardic, you are wondering who will remain in the farm without funds. Unfortunately, those who live the hardest and worst in the farm will remain because we have 180,000 family economies in the register. In order to obtain support, it will be binding on the register or VAT, but at the same time it will be very difficult to realize that they will all be in the VAT system and will not receive support. However, paying for the agricultural chamber is enough that they are in the register and will have to pay for the agricultural chamber. Also, you will remain the poorest because in 250 the highest funds are only 35 family farms, all others are cooperatives or legal entities. And it will also remain because today's speech was already here, and this envelope of nearly 800m euros around 370m euros should refer to rural development. The national rural development strategy has not yet been developed. When it is not known, but I think that when we look at this budget where only 500 million are scheduled for rural development, then we know that the question of how and how these rural development funds will withdraw if we have no way or way of developing this rural one.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43200	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43201	Otherwise, the second structural fund in the European Union for the financing of rural development and the largest in strength and agriculture accounts for 40% of the total European Union. The budget of the European Union is for rural development. So you're on the right track. But we don't even have a regional development strategy that was scheduled to be carried out a year and a half ago. We don't even have a whole series of other strategies. However, we have strategies that, together, are worth economic growth only at 10% to 15%. I mean, at least it's a little unserious. And who's gonna be out of a job and who's gonna be out of a job especially in agriculture you mentioned, so I'd like to see it through this budget. But you can't see it because there's a lot of these white fields. Here's what my colleague and Huška said was that this budget was a very reviewed document. I really didn't see that this budget was a highly reviewed document, otherwise you wouldn't be asking that question. And as for where I found the data that the VAT revenue drop fell for so much you have the data at www.hgk.hr means Croatian Chamber of Commerce, you have at www.hnb.hr, and you have on the whole series, at the Ministry of Finance you can find it at a whole series of different services because it is being monitored today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43202	Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43203	Thank you very much. Well, I've already said on behalf of the club that the budget is an ideal topic for this kind of different thinking, for opposing opinions, but also for arguments. I also said that the Republic of Croatia's budget is burdened with structural economic problems that have accumulated and produced for years. And it is known that the basic economic objectives cannot be achieved either by economic conukture without investment, and investment can only be driven by a low capital price. Croatia has long been in trouble with the price of capital and there is no indication that the interest rate will go to lower levels and in particular concerns and alarms this level of passive interest rates. A passive interest rate can only be reduced by a selective monetary policy in such a way that deposits in business banks above a certain percentage of passive interest, let's say that above 4% introduce a high reserve rate. It's the only thing that's going to be detimulative, and that's the only way to do it to get the iron effects. But this budget also includes many of the consequences of many economic failures that have occurred so far, from lawsuits that come on the charge due to various wrong contracts or even wrong layoffs to state service employees, from contract termination fees, from payment obligations based on a Paris and London club still dating back to the 1990s, and from which the state budget has not received any kuna by selling them. It also contains the consequences of different events such as one bank, which when the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation and the establishment of savings deposits sold in the dispute, the Republic of Croatia lost the dispute to arbitration and the debt to pay 43m euros. And this budget contains such consequences. And I have to go back and say that there's just been a situation like that. The first time she sold surveillance, she also had a central bank in the bank and found there were no risk-weighted placements. When purchases were made for the same placements, they were found to be high risk. When the buyer found out, he filed a lawsuit and sought damages. And it gets slow, tens of millions of euros. And, behold, when all of this went past, the bank was charged by these risky discounts, and almost entirely charged its claims, which is why the Republic of Croatia was paying for the damage. All such and similar cases are contained, which have been accumulated for years, in this budget and therefore it is also in many ways. I would take this opportunity, Mr. Minister, so I would personally appeal to you when excise duties were imposed on speedboats and boats up to 7 meters as the indicators so far show that they have not received those expected positive effects. It's about 3,000 employees, and sales have fallen seven times. It is exclusively domestic producers and in order to protect the interests and employees, but also to realize all agreed transactions to be considered, and I know that an initiative has been launched to change the level of excise duties. Because the analysis shows that it's three times more expensive to open a new job than to keep an existing job. I also know that each item has been controlled many times in the drafting of this proposal, but also certain users still pass without that systematic analysis of their needs. Personally, I don't think it's the happiest solution to funding sports through the Olympic Committee, so it's probably time to take it out. I personally think, when it comes to the burdens of entrepreneurship and employers, that the solution passed and legally for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that it is not a good solution and that it should be changed anyway. So at least be on a voluntary basis so that he may be a member of the Chamber of Commerce who has an interest, so that he may pay the membership fee for it. Also, I think it is known that we should carry out an analysis more systematically for the Croatian National Theatre. I'm personal to culture, to get more if you need more, but to get less if you need less, and there's no systematic analysis as much as they really need. And I know that many actors have not played a single play in the Croatian National Theatre for ten years, and they are on the payroll and in the working relationship. I am also absolutely in the financing of science, but I believe that the separations for the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in this way and in this kind of amounts are not a contribution to science because, according to what we know about the content, I do not think they have responded to the demands of this time but are dealing with the most internal disagreements in the most cases. The truth is that this budget is the result of a governmental indifference, but here indifference, I will repeat it several times, primarily caused by those dominant employers. And every day we have a chance to hear and recently that the public is being deceived again and it is said that one company owes nothing and owes it to demote everything in the business world. Also, many countries in these times of crisis are approaching amendments to the Central Bank Act. Under the current law, part of the profits is paid into the state budget and part of the profits is retained by the Croatian National Bank. The Croatian National Bank manages state money, currency mass on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, and I think that the profit achieved from the business should be paid into the state budget and that it is necessary to consider amending the law in this regard. I don't mind an employer or an employer's fortune, though. The market economy is the only driver of all economic development, but I have against shameless wealth. I'm against the faceless desire to enrich everyone else's heart, and there's too many of them, and too many of them. That grampistic egoism prevailed in one great majority. Individuals try to root out modern economic barbarism under the cover of civilized barbarism. So many employers suffer from such behavior, so many true lovers of entrepreneurship suffer, and the employees suffer because unfortunately there are also those employers who treat man and employee inhumanely, who fire employees unjustly, and earn extra profits, and there are those who earn the most. So I say, I support this draft budget because I understand how much it contains and the difficulties I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43204	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43205	counterpart Maric said the price of capital in Croatia has long been high. I couldn't fully agree with you because by the time I was 7, 8 years ago, you could in Croatia and the citizens and the economy have raised a loan that had the price of Euroribor plus 1, 1.5, 2% of the banking margin. And then there was a crisis and then you look at wonders, the euro area loans fell, the credit price fell, so the capital price fell, and today you have in the euro area credit plus 0.5, 1, which is currently between 2% and 3%. By contrast, the margin has grown terribly in Croatia. Today you in Croatia can also borrow with Euroribor, but plus 6, 7, 8 so your credit price has increased to 610, 12%, which means that the banking sector, the European banking sector or the investment banking sector has raised the risk of Croatia and is asking banks in Croatia to have a higher margin. Because if the thesis is that the crisis is European or global so that just as they are coming out of the crisis, we are coming out of the crisis, we would first have loans in Croatia today at 3 to 4% and secondly, the price of credit or interest would fall. Unlike that, interest in Croatia is growing every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43206	Replication response. Goran's representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43207	Well, colleague Mrsic, it's not like the price of capital has increased in the last year. I'm not happy that I'm much older than you are, but I remember, say, 15 years ago when the state paid its bonds to entrepreneurs, and then the entrepreneurs made these commitments to the business banks, and the business banks charged 16 to 18% for the escort. On average, interest rates in Croatia are dimming with them culminating back two years, but this is all in the domain of monetary policy. The supply of money and the price of capital is within the monetary policy area of the Central Bank and it is an independent institution under both the Constitution and the law so as not to interfere in that part. But I'm just warning of phenomena to be responded to by one who is legally obliged to react to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43208	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43209	Dear colleague Maric, I have a need to look back on your discussion and I must say that in some ways I miss more of these discussions in the Croatian Parliament and I am sorry that Minister Šuker did not listen more carefully as you spoke. Because what you said, I think you spoke primarily from your professional position, and only then from political. Although I disagree, in fact, with your final conclusion on the budget, but these other majority of the debates are mostly in agreement. I think you've well warned about one thing that doesn't take care of itself here in Croatia, that in a crisis we simply have to do two things at the same time. Some items that are not so necessary simply need to be reduced to zero, and some that can get us out of the crisis should in some way support or finance them further. Sometimes I find it unprofessional to be financial when I talk about this, when I look at the budget, that when something enters as an item, in this excelle table of the Ministry of Finance, there's no way of falling out of them. And that we actually waste a lot of money that we don't have and that we could have been more helpful in warning. I'm glad that in some way you warned yourself about it in your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43210	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43211	And yet, my colleagues, I haven't even had a case for the opposition, the opposition and the position to agree on the budget. There's a lot to agree on, but I haven't seen it in my budget yet. The truth is that many avoid talking about certain topics because they are not pleasant to others and are particularly resentful to powerful ones. Sometimes power comes from position, sometimes from capital, and I personally respect only the power of knowledge. So many people are reluctant to talk about, say, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. But personally, I feel that it really is necessary to reconsider what the funds have been spent on for years. Because what I'm following is how it works, and besides that, and they're particularly getting awards, how intertwined they are with each other's disputes, how much they're discussing benign things, I think they deserve, that it's a serious scientific institution, and that it should be more serious and act like it doesn't fit the moment of time. And I also think it's known in the business world that no company has made success without saving. There is no, every success of a business company is based on saving especially in times of crisis. Therefore, any position should be really reconsidered and seen. I know that this budget is quite reassessed, but there's always somewhere where someone gets through. That's true, but in a crisis, we really need to analyze everything and keep every kuna in place and focus on what's needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43212	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43213	Thank you, Vice President. In contrast, we assume a lot of colleagues here I'm going to talk about one specific part of the budget, and these are those items that are actually related to environmental protection regardless of whether it's budget items or extra- budget items. A week ago, I asked the prime minister's question, so Mrs. Jadranka Kosor about whether the government has any measures to get out of the economic crisis in which Croatia is located. At that time, the prime minister responded with a very large pile of words, and all of them came down to see, in fact, in the budget that these measures are, that there are a whole series of measures. Although I am not an economic expert, I must admit that at least when I look at this part of the environmental protection budget, I do not see that there are some measures that Croatia would actually come out of the economic crisis, and I think such measures should be found in part of the environmental protection budget, especially as we often like to see in Croatia in some way the countries of the European Union and the United States, and a very large number of the most developed countries of the European Union and the United States have just found a way out of the current economic crisis in the area of environmental protection, i.e. the promotion of renewable energy sources and the promotion of certain types of the ecological industry. Therefore, I must conclude that my conclusion is that the government is combing while Croatia is burning more than justifying, because this budget just shows it. After this criticism, I would actually commend one of the government's accounts, and it is evident from the government's first projections in fact for 2011 and 2012, and in this way she wanted to prove in fact some kind of strategic commitment because from these meaning indicators it could see that the government is thinking more in the long term and that there are certain sectors that will in particular encourage it, or some that will ignore it less or less. And then, in this document, which is called the rationale of the state budget and the financial plans of extra- budget users for the period 2010 to 2012, it is said that achieving the strategic objective set, and this strategic goal is to grow and employ in a competitive market economy operating in the European social state of the 21st century achieves the achievement of 12 general objectives. And then in the twelveth place of these general objectives is both environmental protection and spatial development. Twelveth place, it's not thirteenth, but I have to conclude that this time, too, environmental protection is the thirteenth pig to say. Even though in this annual budget, unlike last year's budget, the Ministry of Environment is considered one of the ministries that went better in the allocation of funds, for example the budget of the Ministry of Environment Protection for 2009 was 694 million 434 thousand 266 kuna, and for the following year an increase of funds to 745 million 644 thousand 495 kuna is planned. It should be noted that this is still very, very far from implementing the 2008 budget when the Ministry of Environment had 956 million 725 thousand 615 kuna and 27 June, and budget projections for 2011 and 2012, although they foresee an increase in the budget for the Ministry of Environmental Protection, are still not approaching that figure from the implementation of 2008. And that is why I can actually conclude that environmental protection, in this way and spatial development, since this is the same, that these sectors in the same portfolio are not the strategic objectives of this government and that we can't really hope for something too big, not in the following year, not in 2011, 2012 when we talk about environmental protection projects. This can also be seen later from an explanation that is very principled, which could be said by a list of wishes, and concrete projects are actually hardly mentioned anywhere. That's what you can see from this document. This is an explanation of the draft financial plans of the users of the 2010 state budget and the projections for 2011 and 2012, which mentions a whole series of different things. However, there are some quite such illogicalities, so in Objective 2 is mentioned meaning objective 2 of, the objectives of implementing the 2010-2012 programme and monitoring environmental changes, and their impact on the environment to speak of developing a waste management control system and the indicator of the success of this is the creation of a single database. I really don't know how the creation of a single database can be an indicator of the success of this goal. There is more, and even in this budget to improve the state of environmental protection, talk again about the same projects of waste management centres that are being passed year by year in terms of environmental protection and through the budget and through some projects that mean the government points out as very good, but the fact is that at the end of 2009, we still don't have a single waste management centre in the Republic of Croatia and that all these centres have not started to build, but are still in the project documentation and I'm not sure when they will be completed at all. And not to mention that the mass of other waste management centres that are to be handled in other counties has not yet been defined or located, has neither set off the meanings in paper form, in any realisation. And I find it very, very worrying. Now I will also look back at these financial plans of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, and no matter what it may be about, it is something that is ok, because total revenues are increasing and even expected to be a specific surplus of 16 million kuna, the fact is that the funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund are very non-transparently spent and are often not spent at all on projects that have to do with environmental protection. So I would also mention this sad situation of things with the Salonita, where the funds paid the salaries for the workers who participated in the recovery, even though the workers who meant working in the Salonita did not comply with the Convention on Treatment, the safe treatment of asbestos should at all work on the recovery, so the Salonita. And as far as I've gotten the information, it means funds to pay them for other things, which is definitely not something foreseen by the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund Act. There are many other dubiosiss regarding this Environmental Protection Fund. It's a recovery of those so-called so-called. black points where single money is given to companies that don't actually have the right reference to do such a job, and it seems to me that in some way it favors certain politically similar companies and that, under the exception of environmental protection, in some ways, it is funded by party favorites and so on. I've talked more than once about five packaging problems, so I'm not going to repeat it here. Finally, I will also look back on the proposal of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan, which is also enormous, and amounts to over 2 billion, almost 2 billion and 200 million for 2010. There are a whole range of dubiosis in terms of the availability of these funds, and I think that the state should seriously be dealt with with with with with signs of major crime and corruption in Croatian waters. So far I have not recognized any such intensity, and it is certain that to a large extent it would be disbursed means taxpayers who pay for the water supply, when under a larger glass would actually put Croatian water and the way they spend this money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43214	Thank you. House Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43215	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I, like many today, will start with the usual sentence by which the state budget should be a mirror of development projects or development priorities of the Republic of Croatia in 2010. I will also be like many of us today, as part of us, agreeing that this budget is not a good reading of development priorities and that what can be read out of this budget is a little out of line with the announcements we heard this morning from the Deputy Prime Minister, the announcements of some reform moves, but even more in line with what we have been hearing for months that will be done, and in fact nothing other than verbal expression has happened. I don't expect the Prime Minister or anyone who runs this country to take a magic wand, wave and solve all the accumulated problems with one move. But I can't keep my mouth shut and keep up with the constant announcement of reforms and bringing all of us into a situation as we are now, that we're bringing another budget which, in its essence, isn't and can't be changed, because it's missed another year to start reforms based on which expenditure will then change structurally in the budget. If these reforms had occurred, if those reforms had been at least started, if the course and duration of these reforms had been known then they would have been recognised in this. If it had been known to move forward with these structural reforms, then the budget would have provided some funding to finance these reforms. And all of that I don't recognize in this budget. It is said of savings and cannot be said that some items do not actually cut the financial amount. However, this is not the kind of savings that should be expected from a country that has been spending more and less for years and years. It's different to access savings. This savings reminds me, say, of some thrifty owner of Rolls Royce who was suddenly changed in financial opportunities, so now he decided instead of 100,000 miles a year with that Rolls Royce to make 70,000 kilometers, but he doesn't change his Rolls Royce or his habit of having a driver, who this Rolls Royce drives. It's about that kind of savings. We leave everything on existing grounds, we have not agreed except to announce that we are going to change something structurally and continue to finance all the dubiosis, all the ill-organised services of public interest, and continue to finance the barren competition or the barren bickering of the profession with bureaucracy, red tape with the profession. There is no real will to do something that will really enable saving, but I say not a savings that will happen in principle with scissors, but a saving that will be conditional on structural changes in our behaviour, structural changes in the behaviour of the state. I listened very carefully to what the Prime Minister was saying. What she said was serious. The time will come when we'll ask her what she's been through. And so far, there have been announcements of not so serious. But so far, it's been six months since the government, led by a new prime minister, and in those six months, nothing drastic has happened, anything that could lead to the notion of a beginning or a real sign of some structural change. Maybe six months seems a little small. I am sure that most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are very dissatisfied, and are then dissatisfied with all politicians because of this, the six months seem very much. If someone has not realized that time in Croatia has become more important than money, that our delays are creating higher costs every day, and that there will be more and more of these savings that are being made to scissors and that generally do not produce any results, rather, create sometimes greater damage than benefits, this escapes the problem, it covers the problem, it does not know how to solve the problem. And that means he can't even run the country. I don't know who will, I'm here to be led by one who won't just talk, but one who speaks can make laws, to measure. I'm talking about what should have been done already in part if it hadn't already happened in earlier periods, up to this budget, and then we could talk about whether the budget could have been better or worse. Let's not fool ourselves, you should find among yourselves one who dares and one who knows it. That's your thing. That's not my problem. My problem is not to keep quiet about it, my problem is to say what I think about it, to warn you that you are not only jeopardizing your majority authority in the country, but that you are jeopardizing the interests of all these countries. I respect the decision of those who chose you. But I'm looking for results, because I've been chosen by some people who ask me to ask you here for a result. And that's all I have to say about this budget. I didn't expect anything different from what you delivered, you couldn't give anything different, because you didn't do what you were supposed to do before. How long will that go? He says to our people, "Never, never, never, never, never, never, never, never, ever." But that may be your goal. This cannot and must not be the goal of those who govern this country, and it certainly is not the objective of the SDP, nor of me who tried to make a contribution to this personal debate and to make you serious in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43216	This is a folk song. Correction of Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43217	Here's a few incorrect allegations. First of all, "Never even if it wasn't for ever" Petrica Kerempuh and Krleža, not the people. Another no less important allegation that this government has been for six months. It's not even a full five months. And by the way, I've come forward to correct the incorrect allegations about reforms that haven't even begun. Well, you know for a fact that health care reform is under way. You can't deny that. That a state administration reform has been announced, that cancellations cannot be given overnight and what you have announced at your briefing. And that also this morning, the prime minister announced a reform of local and regional self-government, with analyses under way. And after a fatal analysis certainly cannot deny the election results and will then be approached. During the day, the minister also announced and spoke about pension reform, the second pillar, etc. It is not true that we are not ready for reforms, but they are long-term, they are not simple and it may be that a little by little I believe there will be a consensus about what is being said this afternoon and that we will agree on how to implement them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43218	By the way, my ladies, this is from "Balade Petrice Kerempuha" - "There's no flower or justice." Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43219	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, Secretary of State. Here, Mr. Vice President, I have to say this is the 11th budget I'm discussing, not including all the rebalancings that were in the meantime and there were plenty of them, and this seems to me almost for the first time that in the debate here other than the Ministers of Finance and State Secretarys, we don't have any other ministers present, and it seems to me that it would be very important that the parliamentary debate is not only heard by the Minister of Finance, given that certain resolutions are responsible simply for sectoral ministers and they can simply answer some specific questions that the Ministry of Finance simply cannot give us an answer. In my debate, I will refer exclusively to the budget for education and science or the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And I have to say, from Tuesday to this moment, I've been looking for a society of knowledge almost unsuccessfully through the state budget, and I have to say pretty sad that I haven't been able to find it. This is the first budget in which neither the prime minister, nor the finance minister, nor anyone who spoke about the budget in the introduction, mentioned the knowledge society as one of the priorities and more important national objectives, even though the knowledge society is all about it as priorities, as one of the important national programmes in all government programming documents. I can kind of understand the situation we're in. I can kind of understand that there is no adequate answer to that, although I think that the people who should be doing this job from the government have no right not to do it properly, but it seems to me that in a crisis situation and in a situation where there is no money, we cannot afford the luxury to finance everything and all, or that we do not have very clearly expressed some priorities that tomorrow or that can start pulling us out of the crisis tomorrow. It's specifically about this resort of ours. Mr. Minister, you'll know better than I do what it means to know that 83.22% of the budget is exclusively intended for wages. Last year, we were appalled that this 75% salary share was high and that it didn't allow any development and that it was a maintenance of the cold drive. Now not only do we not have a cold drive that we're going to show on some examples, but it seems to me that our entire system of education and science has been reconnected, it has fallen into some kind of coma and connected to some kind of medical apparatus and is barely being maintained in life. I don't know what you think or what your plan is to get out of the crisis. I personally believe that these are the right projects in science, education and research technology activities. In the end, if our education system is poor and it is, if it is sub-financed and we are raising and educating young people tomorrow for the stock market and not for the job. And it seems to me that these are some of the problems that need to be discussed in budgeting. Here are your colleagues and colleagues some examples. Otherwise, the magic figure for the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is 57. 57 is your most frequent index comparing the 2010 budget compared to 2009 which means a 43% reduction compared to that rebalanced last year, which is already repeatedly reduced to the initial one for 2009. Prevention of school addiction, prevention of school violence. All huge social problems by almost 50% reduced resources. Encouraging programs with gifted students and students, extracurricular activities. So all of that to say is to invest in people who are better carriers to say human capital almost 50% reduction. Education of children in private schools is zero kuna, encouraging extracurricular activities I have already said 57% or say project reform of primary education. By the way, one of the priorities of the Government is also set out in the 2005/2010 strategic plan. The total amount of 110 thousand kuna has been reduced by more than 60%. Just for comparison of what we spend money on. For the Plehad monastery, we stand out 135 thousand kuna, for the project of reforming basic school 110 thousand kuna, less than for one monastery. I'm not saying it's irrelevant, but simply in a situation where we don't have enough money, we need to set priorities. A council of students, a council of zero kuna teachers. The provision of libraries with literature and professional literature, Mr. Minister, for the fourth year in a row of zero kunas. Then we'll appeal next week when we'll discuss textbooks why our publishers through donations to schools somehow have doubts about corruption. Zero kuna four years in a row for books in libraries. Equipment of schools with cabinet and didactic equipment again the famous index 57, a reduction of more than 40%. Capital investment in school is down 30%. Raising children and training of members of national minorities twenty percent reduction, education and education of children in preschool 20% reduction although we have a legal obligation to cover all children with at least minimum preschool programmes. Or, say, the development of preschool education. The strategic priority is to increase coverage, a 60% reduction and we give the same money as for the KUD Peasant Syllabic from Vidice. For the development of preschool education across the country as for one KUD from Vidice... Same amount. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Preschool equipment again index 57, non-swimming training down 60%. We talked about the adoption of the Sport Act on the importance of recreational exercise simply for the health of these young people, a 40% reduction. The professional training of teachers decreases between 50% and 60% depending on different sectors. The provision of professional services in the secondary school system reduces more than 40%. I'll just warn that we passed the Law on Professional Education a few months ago that implies a complete reform of the secondary education system as well as the fact that over 70% of our children are just in vocational education. And the current system, if we don't reform it, is taking these kids after high school to the stock market and not to work. And we're reducing funds, and not a little bit, by 40, 50, 60% example, the item of modernisation of the vocational education program. A very important item, 60 thousand kuna, and for example, a puppet theatre in Mostar, we give 135 thousand kuna. Double as, almost, twice as much as modernising the vocational education program. For the puppet theater. And I ask what's more important to us? Modernising the program of vocational education or puppet theatre? The government's more important puppet theater, twice as much. Equipment of vocational schools with workshops and cabinet equipment 70% reduction. Communication infrastructure computer in high schools 70% reduction. Equipment of craft schools for practical training 0 kuna, one single lipa. And I repeat, these kids are being educated again for the stock market, not for the job. Capital investments in secondary school, a reduction of more than 10%. From... Education and Education agencies as professional institutions, development of secondary education 0 kuna, development of adult education 0 kuna, development of primary education 0 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what the priority is, and what should be more important is the national project than the development of a system of education and education, investing in the well-being of every single person who is being educated, who is then indirectly doing good to both society and the whole community. And by the way, here's one question, quite practically, about a subject that's been discussed a lot. It's in the budget, completely unrelated to this education, but it's clear as evidence that we're actually talking one thing about strategic programs, we're making one thing into laws, and the other we're putting into the budget again. 30 million kuna is provided for medically assisted insemination in the budget. If you do about 2500 procedures a year, which is less than last year, if each costs 15 thousand kuna and costs more, it's 37 and a half million kuna. Then what is it worth to us that Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Milinovic tells us? Therefore, this budget not only does it not meet the challenges of time in terms of responding to the crisis and offers at least some indication of how we can solve this crisis, but it is in this sense even irreparable. You're telling us here about the amendments. Minister Shuker, how many amendments would you accept? If I were to write you an amendment for this puppet theater and vocational school, would you accept it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43220	Thank you very much, Madam Representative. There is a respected representative, Goran Heffer, on your line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, it's really like you said that magic number 57%. For me, it has been defeated that even in the area of school addiction prevention, in the area of prevention of school violence, the same figure is 57%. Both over 300 thousand kunas are lower than last year. Therefore, I would link this to our proposal to put a point of the agenda for the rise of violence among young people who were still handed to the Assembly in March, but obviously, to this day, there may be no space for this particular reason why it is seen as perhaps less valuable. I also noticed, for example, the incentives of the Croatian community of technical culture have been reduced by about 30%, and it is a practical organisation that gathers associations where all young people who are thus tormented by these messages that are there, to say, at hand. It is obvious that both the country of knowledge and youth care as the most important potential of the Republic of Croatia are still going into another plan. However, wherever you have an administration and management item, it's always over 100%, and wherever you have that item, there's some kind of means and money. So let us hope that, if not in this budget, we will have more understanding for young people in some future budgets, although it is unfortunate that there is no room for these things either.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43222	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43223	Comrade Heffer, it's a good thing you've warned about this care for young people, here's what you've said. Credit lines for beginners and young entrepreneurs are also significantly reduced, and for a long time we have witnessed that the policy for young people of these governments is down to what young people are our future and in fact forget that our young ones are our present, to live today. And in fact, what you're saying, about violence, about addiction, is very popular with this government when an incident happens, and in fact systematic concerns, there is no systematic prevention. And I can say that there is, that they care and Minister Schucker is rebelling here, but Ministers you have 50 thousand kuna for the whole country, for all the children. No more or less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43224	Thank you very much. The individual debate will be continued by a respected representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43225	If, colleagues and colleagues, high education is the meaning of overall education, not only because it is its end but because its highest part, among other things, is the only basis for high technology and its development and thus the competitiveness of the country, then unfortunately even with higher education, the situation is not much better. However, it is in some international ways even more tragic. It is common in the developed world that personal income and personal income expenditure in scientific research institutions do not exceed 60%. The ideal condition is therefore 40% personal income, 40% development and 20% material costs. In our case, colleagues and colleagues, we have a situation that is quite worrying. On the one hand, for scientific research we have at one point the index of 101, that's so-called. project scientific research, but in fact, that amount is only 126 million kuna. What can be explored with 126 million kunas in one country of 4 and a half million inhabitants, perhaps you can picture for yourself. However, in order for scientific research to work at all, you need professional societies to be able to discuss the results of scientific research, in order to be able to publish them, you need scientific journals, in order to share your knowledge with the world and explore the world, you need international scientific meetings. In order for you to be in the process of actually happening in the world and in science and to know that you are not accidentally investigating what is in the world but being investigated and confirmed, you need subscriptions to foreign scientific journals. So, you need all the infrastructure. Look at how the infrastructure is in our budget. For our domestic scientific journals, we've singled out 5 million kunas. No scientific journal but the largest and most renowned in the world passes without subsidies. We have five million kunas for all scientific magazines in Croatia, or we actually have 51% of what was last year. For scientific gatherings, for all scientific gatherings of all scientists throughout the country of four and a half million inhabitants, we have two million kunas. For publishing books and textbooks, therefore, and what represents some kind of scientific innovation, but also what has been achieved during science, and this is published in the form of textbooks is foreseen for subsidies of six and a half million kunas, or 50%, and for the purchase of ino magazines of colleagues and colleagues to whom we once spent tens of millions of kunas today we have 4.6 million kunas or 18.7% of what was this year. When you add that for all the professional societies in the country a subsidy from the Ministry of Science of 830 thousand kuna, and there are 50, then it is clear that nothing important can be done with these money. It should be added in fact to what is happening at the so-called level. applied sciences, technology and technology projects. Since 2000, 2001, 2002, under different names to date, some institutions have survived by applying scientific research to new products, and perhaps even patenting scientific research and let's say one of them is BICRO. BICRO has zero kuna for next year. Fast, therefore, the innovation technology centre has 71% of the budget of what it has this year. Then one part of the institute goes relatively well, but this relative passing is actually paid by a very, very bad passing in the vast majority of other scientific research institutes. That's right with scientific institutes where personal incomes are 85%. Universitys are the highest concentration of mind in both the developed world and Croatia. Universitys are the largest scientific research facilities, but also educational and educational institutions. What's the deal with them? There's a thing in them that's just as worrying. You have a range of personal incomes compared to the total amount available from in some better cases 70 percent to 88%. Personal income is so much. When there is such a level of personal income then it is quite clear that scientific research comes into question, that scientific innovations and the acquisition of new scientific equipment are completely stopped, which is extremely expensive, but this also means that colleagues and colleagues are left with far more social institutions for them than institutions that perform that function for which they are established and for which they should actually receive money. But that also means that the country that acts that way condemns itself or to stagnation, at best actually to regression. I will serve Mr Minister with one piece of information recently published by the European Commission. In the 27 Member States of the European Union, 3 countries have reduced the amount of research. Several countries have maintained, and nearly half of the countries have increased investment in science, especially in applied scientific research because they believe that only these investments will allow a new cycle of development and a new cycle of production. We are doing something here and here that is contrary to the experiences of other countries. We're actually denying ourselves the future. We self-relieving those possibilities that could lead us further and that could lead us forward. Because in times of crisis, we need to concentrate on those impact points that can get us out of this crisis as quickly as possible, as efficiently as possible and as far as possible. With this kind of treatment of science, technology and education, I'm afraid we're cutting ourselves off from that possibility, and I'm actually afraid that these consequences will be very difficult if not tomorrow, in three, four years, when this terrible, lagging behind as well as this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43226	Thank you very much. The Republic has a respected representative, Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am coming from the academic community, and I was encouraged by the debate of my distinguished colleague Flege. Namely, the publication of domestic scientific journals exactly 5 million, but in two budgets from 13 million to about a million, so since 2008. But these days, for example, in the academic community, you're probably getting to know yourself talking about the near change in terms of new conditions for choice in scientific titles where drastic conditions increase or increase or worsen whatever you want to say. This obviously doesn't work out with each other. In fact, it is still a fact that most scientists publish their works primarily in domestic scientific journals if they exist. This will certainly make it even more impossible. But also here today I was called by my colleagues from the University of Osijek. It is unclear that all universities with the exception of Dubrovnik are also unclear at a level of 100% or more than 100 percent compared to the previous budget period other than the University of Osijek, which is 99% and the budget is lower for regular activity for some two and a half million kunas. Some of this, of course, we have seen some of the other politicians' announcements as it is about neglecting Slavonia. I'm not going that far, but the fact that it's not quite clear what that was about was a guide or a reason for this part of the budget related to the University of Osijek. And even here are the incentives and universities to help, i.e. to teach at the University of Mostar, is as increased as the others. Is it possible that in Osijek, which also largely serves and bridge university that it really needed to be reduced by those 2 and some million kunas? I haven't sent any amendments, but this is an obvious problem to be discussed in Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43228	Thank you very much. And the reply to the replica has Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43229	My dear colleague, that I agree with you, and I warned you about that. On the one hand, we are asked to publish criteria, which is why they are more rigorous, and on the other hand we have less and less money for places to publish it is for scientific magazines. So we're not just jumping into our own mouths, we're actually cutting the branch we're sitting on. The University of Osijek was supposed to have a 10-year priority, so it had to grow more than the others because we know how it went during the war, it got the most hurt, but I'm sorry it didn't keep going. And I finally didn't mention it in the debate then I'll mention it now. We very, very badly have so far stood very badly by the percentage of gross national product that stands out for education, especially for higher education. But I'll give you the following information. More and more are actually counting investment in science and higher education by number, by the money invested per student. In Croatia, it is about 3,000 euros per student. In Hungary, which is in deep crisis this year, 5,000 euros per student. In Slovenia, there are 6,000 euros. In Austria, there are 10,000 euros. A cost of equipment, study, food subsidies, etc. they are more or less even in Europe. And now you can imagine what effects our science can have with 3,000 euros compared to those that invest 10, 12, 15 and 18 thousand euros. So it's time for us all to ring the alarm together, and it's certainly not the time to adopt a budget like this that cuts our future and makes it impossible for us to continue to develop high-tech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43230	Thank you very much. We're moving on. There are 14 more applications here on the table. The first is the respected representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43231	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. According to the budget ahead of us, it will be nearly 7 in 2010 and together with extra budget funds, as much as 9 billion kuna. Mr. Minister, apart from the financiers, such large figures are only known to mathematicians, physicists and astronomers. It's 60 times lower, or more than it's within miles of the earth to the sun. To count to nine billion, assuming every second you say one number takes 160 years. So more than average human life and twice that. However, the truth is that the state has no money. In fact, we are witnessing that I do not know for what time in the cutting-up of the State Hydrometeorological Institute is for a deep activity so far called artificial action in time, and now it is called monitoring and mitigation of the consequences of accidents, approximately 23 million kuna, i.e. 22 million 930 million. It is known that all international relevant organisations, including the World Meteorological Organisation, the European Meteorological Organisation, but everyone including the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have shown that the defence against missile fights makes no sense. This year, at least 10 days of fighting fell, despite the defence against the fight, but the government insists on one pointless activity that the Ministry of Science had to validate, and said it also made no sense. Why in the Republic of Croatia, despite the view of the Government itself, continues to finance the defence against the fight, as a scientific doubt activity, which, apart from the Republic of Croatia, remains only in countries with a very difficult communist heritage, that, instead, in accordance with the practice of the European Union in which we swear so much and its acquis, the fight is taken out of the operational jurisdiction of the State Hydrometeorological Institute, so let it be paid by someone who loves to choose, and instead to organise crop insurance with insurance companies. On the other hand, this same government, Mr. Minister, I do not know if you know what it says in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Article 73, which states that for full membership in the European Union Croatia must have a functional system of quality infrastructure, hence normisation, accreditation, measurement, intellectual property, etc. However, in the budget, the Republic of Croatia is constantly reducing the amount given to the accreditation agency. The fact is that the accreditation agency has become or has passed accreditation in European accreditation, will soon sign, a multilateral agreement with European accreditation will be signed, which means that the activities of the Croatian accreditation agency will be recognised everywhere in Europe, which will further facilitate the flow of goods, people and capital and services, will facilitate the fall of non-tariff barriers to trade. However, what will not be facilitated is the activity of the Croatian accreditation agency ahead of the collapse. Namely, the Croatian accreditation agency acts in a way that does not hire, or hires, because they are not constantly employed, domestic assessors in over 90% of cases, and where they cannot be found are hired by foreigners, so that these scientists, experts, examine the compliance of certain methods of testing in our laboratories in accordance with the requirements of international standards, highly specialised for which highly specialised knowledge and skills are needed. And now the accreditation agency has at its base some 400-point or even 500 such professional assessors, but it cannot pay these people simply because the Ministry of Finance does not allow it, and despite the fact that the accreditation agency has its own income under the Accreditation Act, and earns more than 70% on the market, so it must collect its services from those high-level appraisers, in fact every profit goes to the state budget and cannot go to the agency's very activity. So, despite repeating every expenditure on intellectual services, at least in this case, there is income achieved, this structure of the budget neither perceiving nor accepting or acknowledging. In fact, last year's growth index was not allowed. Therefore, the 2011 budget projection envisions a further reduction in the revenue of the accreditation agency, despite its growing market revenue. And the trend of accredited laboratories is essentially exponential. This honorable House often requires that certain methods be accredited, such as genetically modified food, air quality, noise, etc. I'm asking a question from what? How? What will you do by the Ministry of Finance to stop this unsustainable situation and to prevent the collapse of an agency that, together with normisation and the Meriting Institute, honorably performs its function in these assessments of the European Commission, will receive the best commendation, however, its activity will begin in early 2010. In short, on these two examples, it may be irrelevant to you but you can see all of the government's irrationality, the structure of the budget and the fact that our society, led by the government, acted as an irrational drunk millionaire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43232	Thank you very much. It's our guest, Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43233	Dear Vice President... And what's said as in one family, if you spend more than what you earn, it can go away for a while. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Like I said, you're going to see one neighbor once, the other, you're going to borrow the fifth. When no one borrows money anymore, then you face reality and then everything happens. What would you say to us in Istria that things are going to incantate. I hope that this will not happen to us and that sooner or later you will have to do what needs to be done, whether this government, whether the other government, I hope that the other government will do what needs to be done, which is to face reality and real opportunities. And adapt your options to that. Citizens are aware of the situation... /The speaker turned off./... and should not be afraid with what they are paying them to be fired etc. ... /The speaker has been disabled./... Therefore, sooner or later things will have to be settled, and the citizens will be aware of that. We're going to have to tell you exactly how and in what way to do it. That it'll be painful, it'll be painful. I'd say something concrete right now, considering the Prime Minister said point-blank and say what you'd do. So I'm going to try pointing my finger and say what we should do and support it with examples and knowledge of things. It is the home affairs portfolio, i.e. the part relating to protection and rescue. You know that in that part, don't grab my lip right now, but somewhere around 130 million kuna is being spent for five years. There was more money on it. And a system is being built based on these large financial resources for which a large part of the people involved in protection and rescue and who work in the services think that it is not an appropriate system and that something is being done in the Republic of Croatia and building something that is not known in Europe, but Europe has told us and has made us, or we are taking the obligation to do something. How we do that, every national state, every national system adapts to itself. However, it is important and I stress that large financial resources are being spent. In the system of protection and rescue 90% of the system lies today in municipalities, cities and county. In the budgets of units of local self-government that face the same difficulties, funds are planned to implement protection and rescue measures. The laws adopted by this House on a proposal from the Government have regulated the system. The municipalities, cities and counties have met with the fact that these jobs have to be organised, someone has to do these jobs. And today you have a vast majority of Croatian cities and counties that have had to find solutions, hire people, hire specialized firms and spend significant budgets for 3.4 years to organize this system. At the same time, in these money that I talked about about 130 million seconds less in the state, there is a state administration as a competent authority, however inappropriately organised because it is organised from state to county level. We have about 600 to 700 employees here right now, including the 112 system, and these are people who today, on behalf of the state, are, on behalf of the state, simplifying or overseeing the system. However, doing business is within the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities and cities have had to find solutions to who will do these jobs. That's what I'm finding out. At the same time, funds for organizations and services are reduced, whether they are firemen, mountain rescue services, the Red Cross, emergency services, etc. And now a suggestion. I've determined the condition. About what? A suggestion is what to do? Decentralize the system. It can be decentralized very quickly. The system that is now in the state administration through the district offices with these people is being put into operation by local self-government units of municipalities, cities and counties. There will be a reduction in costs and local budgets and less financial resources guaranteed will need to be allocated from the level of the state from the budget or the possibility of more funds being given to organisations, whether they are services, whether they are associations that are protected and rescued. I repeat, firemen, the Red Cross, the Mountain Rescue Service, etc. This should be done especially in this situation. This can be done very quickly and will lead to savings and more efficiency. That things don't work in that system, and that's how it organizes certain problems, and that's how I'm going to support the products and the costs with one example. Unfortunately, I have to take it out. Over a thousand seasonal firefighters have done quality this summer's fire season all over the coast, but today it's 26.11. they didn't get paid from the budget level where the planned funds for the 9th month and some didn't get any more money for the 8th month. Therefore, it is proof that there are no reserves in the system, there are ways and that the system is currently not functioning properly. There are also problems within the system structure because if the system were to be decentralised, it would lower where it is primarily carried out and that is the level of county and cities and municipalities, then the system would be simplified and more efficient and then it could be spoken among other things that the number of unique Croatia needs as well as all countries would introduce 112 so that it could be properly organised. This is how problems exist, all the time the financial resources are allocated, there is a superstructure that is not suitable and we thank God we have enough resources in the Republic of Croatia just have to use them. Here, I'll finish there. This is what should be done specifically in this budget. You can do it now. Will you, whether someone else will have to do it sooner or later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43234	Thank you very much. Next in line is Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Several speakers said today, and this is also heard in every budget at any level of city, municipality, county and state that the budget is only a numerical mirror of the government's policies, in which the state runs. And what does this year's mirror tell us when we look at him, what did the government suggest? In short, we've earned less and we'll spend more. The words that were heard during this year were crisis in 2009, recession, savings, restrictions, rationalization. Each of those words is totally out of line with what we got here today, which is to spend more than last year. We've had a drop in social product and we'll take more to the citizens next year, and we'll spend it neatly. There's only one difference. Last year we had a half-year crisis tax and next year we will have a crisis tax that will last all year despite promises or announcements, shy announcements that it might be considered to be lifted sooner. In order to avoid any confusion that I am talking about, I am talking about that tax that is popularly referred to in the people as a harrassor, which is politically obstructed, and the Constitutional Court has declared it constitutional. The SDP has proposed that the government withdraw this budget and make a decision on temporary financing. However, I must admit that this budget is actually one slightly wider decision on temporary financing because it will last about as long as this decision is going to take, so three, four months. Then we're going to have one rebalancing, so we're going to have another rebalancing, so we're probably going to have a third rebalancing next year. The argument that 87% of the budget is set and, of course, this budget is also defended is an argument that can be used but is not said who set that budget, it is set by those 87%. No one from the outside, no one from the sky or anyone from the ground. It was decided by the Government or the Croatian Parliament by the laws it passed and which define the 87% budget set. And when it comes to saving then the maltene becomes heretic to suggest that some items in this budget increase because as time is saving and the budget is bigger than last year. Then why can't it be said that some items are increasing, and let's say two items that concern me will only be mentioned in one sentence of the Croatian islands are reduced in the following year. One is for capital investments and the other is for co-financing of shipping lines. I received assurances from talks with the ministry's leaders and the leaders of Jadrolinija and in some way calmed the leadership of local self-government units that there will be no abolition of some ferry lines next year. I hope that it will remain because in 2009 the rebalancing eventually increased that amount for co-financing of shipping lines and it too depends on the price of fuel, so I hope that the separation in that item remains at that level so that it can simply be this way and this standard of shipping and maritime transport to the islands so that it can be maintained. Because I'm saying, if we're going to increase the budget in total then at least we don't have to cut those items very much. The political message of this budget is more clear, and that is why the Croatian government and the ruling coalition are not ready for major structural reforms in the country, that in 2009 we go further in the same way, that in 2010 we go further in the same way as we went in 2009 so in an unknown direction and with unknown dynamics, that we will again be surprised by the crisis that the whole world knows that the idea of getting out of the crisis is gone. And I hope that what I'm saying now will be confirmed in the following year, that we will, of course, understand very quickly that this budget is not realistic, is not developed, that actually the revenues are a little too much, so that too much revenue is put into this budget, that they will not be realized, that we will have rebalancing and that this budget can actually be called a calculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43236	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The next registered representative is Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43237	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I have to say that this 2010 budget also shows in one way what has been happening in Croatia over the last few years, and that is to do a little bit and spend too much. They're all smaller and therefore budgets have fewer incomes, and bigger expenditures, so the negative component appears. And how does that work out? It is resolved primarily by borrowing. This matrix of life, it goes from country to city, we all owe ourselves, and this borrowing is even presented as success, and we heard it from Minister Shuker, who in some ways boasts that this country is re-indebted. And what's happening is we're in front of a wall that we can't jump, in front of a wall where an economy that's too weak doesn't give us the strength to cross it. Debts have grown, developed, and this mentions the budget that more resources need to be allocated to settle these loans. So hard work, debt, it's all here present and normal that we can't even realize what this budget should realize, and the budget should be to start production, to preserve jobs. How do you do that? How to do with a budget that doesn't say that we're ready for some sharp cuts because we're talking about 85.90% of the budget's commitment, so there's no possibility of reducing consumption, state spending. The question is who can raise strength if not the ruling set-up at this time to launch some processes and concrete moves related to certain reforms, primarily state administration reform, means not only at this state level but also local. What we have come to, and we have come to the full of state administrations, both in local self-government and in state, to a large, too many municipalities and cities and counties. They're going to have to run and get rid of it if they're going to go further and work, how much work we're doing, with these work and these means, and calm down these certain needs. Something about that part of the budget relating to agriculture, fishing, rural development. You're all seen recently, and also summers etc. The protests are farmers, as they were in Brussels, in the European Union, and why? Therefore, where 40% of the EU budget is allocated with almost 55 billion euros and there are dissatisfied people with agricultural production, with the price of their products. And what it means for us, where we see just over 4 billion kuna in the agriculture budget, fishing, rural development, in the budget that is below now 4% of the entire state budget, the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. And when we look at all of this, there are still stories that should be reduced, etc. Normally, both peasants and agricultural producers are irritated by this and ask what their future is like in this country. And what happens to the budget? So by budget, in that particular section of the Ministry of Agriculture, he's just doing what he's doing, which is copying items, figures. Instead of one analysis being made after each budget, and what has been done with the specific resources provided by the team, in this budget with the funds increased to invest in agriculture, but what have been the results of these investments? Well, the findings are for sure that production hasn't increased, that's obvious. Also, the finding is that agricultural products have increased. And what should we do? So we need to work primarily, to clearly define the objectives of the agricultural and rural policy. Unfortunately, we don't have it with us. What do we want and what should we produce and what will we stimulate? First of all, we need to carry out a thorough review of these support, set up their transparency, their objective and balance. And what do we hear from the Prime Minister today? So he says he can't handle this support, that he can't stand the budget, and when we look at the envelope we're talking about, it's 750 to 800 million euros that we're supposed to have, or get, to place in agriculture, and that's about 5 billion. Therefore, we must also now be aware that for the farm where the estimates are in Europe, about 5 billion or close to 800 million euros should be given for that agriculture. So we can't just approach taking down support, reducing certain activities, such as rounding up agricultural land. So 4 million, 2008 2 million, 2010 was proposed in this segment in 2009. 390 grand, nothing further. Did we solve the problem of rounding agricultural areas or are we still saying that we have 3 ha per household? What part of it is solved or rural development. All this large part of these funds will be withdrawn by Europe and will be for rural development of 370m euros. Therefore, more than for direct payments. The trend of direct payments is in Europe to disappear right there after 2013. Thus, in those parts, they should certainly be more concrete and determined to resolve it, not just to say without some reason. Or another question that's particularly interesting. These are these interventions on the market. Well, we're just the prime minister this year, and that's what she promised me, and it's 180 million kunas to implement market measures, interventions in the agriculture sector, and 160 million in the cereals sector. It is summer or spring when it was promised by the vice president then the government of Mrs. Kosor and Vice President Polancec. This is over 350 million plus that, this year will be spent on market interventions, and next year we plan 100 million, and at the same time we know by all estimates that the next three to four years the prices of agricultural products will not rise but may possibly be at the same level or lower. What can we expect after these things are held in this budget? So we can expect because this was this 180 million every six months. I wonder how after the new year the reaction will be made by the milk producer when they are no longer given this part to be the price of 2.2 kuna in production. Therefore, such a budget without previous policies and political and reform cannot certainly be sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43238	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by a respected representative, Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow we had at the debate yesterday at the Law on the regulation of the agricultural products market, and I believe, regardless of what was indicated, that everyone who deals with agriculture, who had anything to do with it, is clear that market interventions will exist in the following year only that they will be very likely to be solved in the way they were dealt with, and you have clearly shown it. So, the current prime minister of the previous, so the deputy prime minister of the government will also have to make a promise if there are such uneasy events as it was this year. But unfortunately, it is something that is left to such a philosophical decision rather than to apply to a serious strategy that will solve the issue of agriculture in one right way and will also put the question of market interventions in the context of such a strategy. But we'll see about it in 2010 because these 100 million kunas that are planned here are not going to be enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43240	Thank you very much. Followed by a reply to the replica, respected representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43241	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Heffer, this is exactly the approach and approach to this whole problem by drawing up some of the elements of this budget and certain default reductions regardless of what is behind it and how they will need to react afterwards in certain situations point to one surface of work on the budget. I said that just copying these what is called items and somewhere when there is no more money then it remains white, and otherwise in this whole process of reviewing which should be carried out and professional services not only the Ministry of Finance, but normally by the ministries they should have greater visibility of what can happen and where we can make better moves to also make that budget, that is, these money invested in certain branches of production give both better results and ultimately better lives for people who deal with that economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43242	Thank you very much. It is next, Honorable Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with associates and associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start with one question from you colleagues and colleagues when exactly a year ago we've been making a budget for this year, do you remember what the economic growth rate was that the government came before us here in this same assembly? At that time, the government said that economic growth in this year would be 2%, and several days earlier, the economy minister said it would be at least 3%. At that time, opposition MPs warned of a threatening wave of recession and what had happened. I can only wonder now if it was a vision, which was the expertise, which was the responsibility to speak at that time. This year's budget is the beginning of a sad story, a story that won't last long, because this budget is the most expensive artificial breathing that exists in Europe today. The Prime Minister and Finance Minister have often warned us these days, and I quote, "If you have something against the budget, say what you want to increase and what you want to cut." What a demagogy! It's not a question, colleagues and colleagues, what to cut today and what to change today, but who brought us into a situation that today our hands and legs are tied and that we have nothing to change but to turn from hollow to empty. My colleagues and colleagues, while the world is getting better, we're still sinking. We continue to spend as colleagues have just said far more than we earn. We're still sinking. There are only 800,000 people working in the real sector today. So these 800 thousand Croatian citizens feed over 3 and a half million citizens, above all their families, a complete public sector, and soon big debts come to their backs. In February, it was 500m euros. As for this year's budget, the parameters on which the budget for next year is based are very questionable. The economic growth is projected to be 0.5%, but Mr. Minister, if that's not the case, and the chances are it's not. The profit tax has a very questionable projection. What happens, Mr. Minister, if that's not the case? And there's a good chance it won't be like that. Subsidies to shipbuilding have been reduced. The government apparently assumes a successful privatisation process will be implemented. But what, Mr. Minister, if that's not the case? Individence increases by galloping speed, an unsettled amount of about 20 billion kuna. Unfortunately, the state and public companies are highly generated by the economic stalemate. My colleagues and colleagues, why is the budget increasing the items with which the prime minister praised today? Here, for example. the pension item is increasing, but it has not told us whether they are increasing with a view to increasing pensions, improving pension standards or because the number of unemployed next year will grow, so all those who have minimum conditions will probably have to retire. Why are the unemployment funds increasing? Is it because of their requalification and employment in a successful part of the economy that will produce that economic growth or because thousands and thousands more new citizens will be found at the Employment Bureau? So far we've always been colleagues and colleagues, so far I've always been an optimist, believe me always. I never thought there was a situation that couldn't be solved. Unfortunately, I have to say it can and because... Today I'm worried, today I'm a little afraid of what's waiting for us tomorrow. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] I'm not surprised at today's debates of those who have brought on this situation. I'm not surprised at that. But I'm surprised colleagues and colleagues give them the opportunity to continue to lead this country in the same way. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues why do you allow it? Do any of us have the right to raise our hands next Wednesday and allow for the continuation of this agony, the agony of economic, agony of political, agony of moral? My colleagues and colleagues, I come from Rijeka, and in Rijeka there is a large company called "Third May" that has employed a huge number of my fellow citizens for decades, which is directly in the shipyard, as co-operatives. And I watched that company's agony, and here I'd like to say a few words about it. In fact, the government was the one who could and should have made the moves at a certain point. It didn't take a lot of sense in this information era to see who, which and how it works to get similar companies out of a difficult situation. Look at your colleagues and colleagues in South Korea. When the ship's orders went down, what did they do in Hyundai and Samsung? They expanded the program of their products, port cranes, and later it went on monitors, and later it went on cell phones. Isn't it easier for someone who has personnel, who has equipment, who has room to further start producing certain products than someone who starts from scratch? So in South Korea, not only did they keep those in the shipyard, but they hired their children and their grandchildren who were adequately employed, pardoned for these new technologies. Why didn't we at least make a little effort in that direction? I ask the minister, how many of our shipyards have been involved in the construction of our highways, our railway structures for bridges, overpasses, underpasses, those bumpers on the side, signalling? How many of these metal structures, these billions of tons of iron were built in thanks to the hands of our shipbuilders? Probably a little, probably nothing. That's inadmissible. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, did we get the mandate to accept in the highest representative body a budget that does not encourage production, which does not encourage competitiveness, which does not encourage employment, which does not encourage development, which does not encourage education and science, which does not promote anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43244	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43245	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am going to answer partly some of the questions that my colleague Doric from Rijeka rhetorically asked, wondering if we have a mandate to accept such a bad budget, a budget that does not guarantee that the citizens of Croatia will live better. So here I can read to you all what the citizens of Croatia say in a great research published by... A few days ago, 84% of respondents in Croatia, which is the highest of any country in the region, thinks the country is going in a bad direction, and there are only 22% of respondents in the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most respondents in Croatia, 57% are not satisfied with their standard of living, and before 2006 there were 41%. Comrade Doric, fellow Members and colleagues, I think we have received an answer as to why this budget should be rejected, why this government should leave. This government shows every day that nothing is better than it was when Sanader led it. She's going further, but she keeps going in the wrong direction. Someone said today that the budget is like a mirror, like an I.D. As soon as you look around, you can see who owns that card. I'm a doctor, so I'm gonna say it's like an X-ray. When an expert looks, and the budget can be immediately determined what kind of state it is, what kind of government is run by such a state, when it proposes such a budget. Here today was a round table where experts gathered, so non-politicals not SDPs agreeing with the SDP that this budget is completely unsustainable and that it should be rejected, make a decision on temporary financing. And as soon as a new president of the state is elected, the president who hopefully will bring a new justice to Croatia, announces new elections. Experts say the state won't pay even 100 billion kuna, let alone 110 that are scheduled, so the deficit will be twice as much as 9 billion kuna. They say we need new revenues, incomes coming from production and new jobs, and the Croatian labour market is overly burdened and completely uncompetitive. We need a general tax burden that can only be achieved by cuts on the divisive side of the budget. The current tax system is a complicated, expensive and inefficient system. Today, experts from one round cause are ordering. And I'm going to read a prescription for a recovery from the crisis as ordered by one bank. So, appetizer, main dish and dessert. The appraisal contains short-term measures such as the abolition of the crisis tax, the elimination of economically unwarranted subsidies and reduced non-taxable duties. For the main food of structural reform, tax, pension and education reforms, dessert includes long-term economic policy objectives such as reducing the share of state spending to 35% of GDP, employment growth at 70%. Do we see any of this in our budget? Nothing. Not even a little bit. For this simple reason, I find it totally unacceptable to take responsibility for bringing a budget that will mean further fungi for all citizens living in this Croatia, except for one small layer of people who get rich at the expense of all others in Croatia who live harder and harder, and here, according to this survey, 57% is such. What particularly disappointed me, and these are false promises that we can hear from ministers when, for example, They come to Rijeka, and then they claim that the river will get better, especially so it's better if it's in Rijeka, for example. HDZ in power, not SDP, for 19 years. So here is also the case, Minister Milinovic recently opened a new dialysis, the first facility that was built from the state budget in Rijeka since 1934 and said, "I've secured funds," so I quote, it says in "New List" a day later than a new dialysis was opened "The funds for the construction of pediatrics and gynecology are secure." So I opened the budget on page 248 where, for example, It says that 56 million kuna was allocated to the Clinical Hospital Center in 2008. 2009 31 million kuna. And now I expect because the funds are provided for the construction of pediatrics and gynecology that I'm going to see here some kind of item at least equal to that of 2008. But I was very wrong. The funds provided by the minister for the construction of pediatrics and gynecology means 17 million kuna. 55% of the budget compared to last year. Well, I am keenly interested in where these funds for the construction of pediatrics and gynecology in Rijeka are in that position, and unfortunately the fact that Rijeka will probably get a new hospital in 2034, 100 years after such a hospital building was built on Sušak. Or Rijeka Airport, says Minister Kalmeta, "4 million kunas will be provided next year to improve the conditions of operation of Rijeka Airport", and then I look naively in the budget where these millions are. I can only see for the reconstruction of Zadar Airport, 1 million kuna is planned. That is how these promises are made by ministers who come to Rijeka, which is clearly not possible to secure funds in the budget. Minister Milinovic also says we are doing health reform, we have secured savings. So yesterday, I'm reading in the paper that the Rijeka KBC is threatening to fire 365 employees for a certain period of time. For the simple reason that hospital debt is already 143 million kunas or 9 million kunas more than at the end of last year. Why did that debt grow? Well, because doctors and nurses did their job. They treated sick people. But Minister Milinovic reduced the hospital budget in Rijeka from 54m to 47m kuna. Every month there are 5 million kunas missing to do any work in a state-of-the-art health care facility. However, such a minister who has conducted a call for health reform has been promoted and has become Vice-President of the Government, as well as his colleague Shuker, and we only see that this government has one single goal, which is to secure the chair and preserve its own positions without worrying about the quality of life of Croatian citizens. And here we go for the end of corruption. Corruption in 2008 was 4.4 all satisfied. It was approaching some grade 5 that was on a scale of 1 to 10 the first positive grade. However, this year's score is 4.1. And now that you have strongly defended certain ministers in this assembly, the former prime minister continues to defend himself fiercely, and it is clear that after the enormous damages caused by the budget, which means to all Croatian citizens in their salaries, their pensions. After he said that the HAC administration was removed because of a bad climate, I don't know whether the Mediterranean climate was a matter or another, we see today it's a crime. So, after such irresponsible statements, in addition to the simultaneous claims, that he cannot be held accountable for what is done in his portfolio, because he knows the command responsibility, I remind you of Minister Ana Stavnić-Rukavina who also had, to say, as Minister Kalmeta said, a commanding responsibility, but because of an affair at the Dialysm, without having had any connection as Minister Kalmeta said, she resigned and was the only minister to do so in the last 10 years. Therefore, I call on Mr Kalmet to resign and show that he is such a responsible person, because it will only be proof that he is beginning to fight corruption in Croatia, not just to write materials, action plans, and money is simply leaving. No hack can compensate for the losses Croatia has suffered from corruption in state-owned companies, and this has been going on for years. Now, if that's not enough, I don't know what else to say to prove that this government is going in the wrong direction and that it simply can't understand that this wrong direction has led 84% of citizens to think that we're going in the wrong direction. If 84% of citizens feel that Croatia is going in the wrong direction, then this Assembly cannot take any further decisions that mean that we are sinking deeper and deeper. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43246	Thank you. The next is the respected representative of the town of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43247	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Ministry of Finance. I'd like to clarify a few facts here. First of all, we are discussing the 2010 budget and projections today and comparing them to the 2009 plan. However, this plan in 2009 is not the plan that we made here in the Croatian Parliament at the last session when we had budget rebalances because the government had redistributed billions and 300 million kunas a month ago and 30 October 2009 respectively. We argued here in the eighth month, and I don't know what they were doing, and the whole budget redistributed to 450 million kuna and the government made a redistribution of billions and 300 million kunas in one session without debate. The law on the implementation of the state budget will allow the Government to do so in the coming year without the Croatian Parliament because the government has always put it in the Law on the implementation of the state budget only during the rebalancing period. For the first time, such a provision is now being put in place when the budget is adopted. So, colleagues who talked about how the budget rebalance would be already in the spring were wrong. The budget rebalancing may be every month but will not be in the Croatian Parliament but will be held at meetings of the Croatian government. As a result, the government really doesn't care what the proposal proposes. I am saddened that the ruling majority accepts the adoption of paper that will suffer each month's redistribution in the government's sessions because it is quite obvious that it is completely unsustainable from a whole series of items. It is completely unsustainable, for example, in a segment covering the new economy minister because if it is going to implement this budget that is proposed then it should not have come there, then it could have been done by anyone from the Ministry of Economy or could have been done by the State Secretary because it is only a continuation of one bad policy or policy that has no effect, or a policy that has no purpose, because we should at least in the light of this budget get the effects of current investments in some segments, so we may have been able to get the effect of investing in entrepreneurial zones to see how many zones are open, how much money has been invested in those zones, but also what matters how many people in those zones have got the job. For example, we should have received the effect of how much capital support in agriculture was given, how much increased production capacity in agriculture, how much agricultural reconstruction occurred and how much this led to the reduction of the imports of agricultural products in Croatia. There has been a decrease in agricultural products in Croatia lately, but not due to increased production in Croatia, but because agricultural consumption in Croatia has been reduced. You see, today when I went to this session of the Parliament, I went with the Croatian railway and perhaps on foot, perhaps because of the name of the train, but in the Sesvets, the axle on the Podravka Express machine broke. So Podravka also has problems with the train moving towards Zagreb. I do not see in this budget nor the colossal means for railways, let alone the means to create, for example, a remont of the Botovo-Zagreb railway line on the river or to make the necessary recovery and renewal of the Koprivnica-Virovica-Osice-Osjek railroad. Since the Koprivnica-Nasice-Virovitica-Osjek railway line has changed in a very wasteful state, there has been a change in the distance in Croatian railways and trains that used to drive on the Zagreb-Koprivnica-Osjek route are now rerouting to corridor 10C and it is very certain that in one future short time, the railroad that is the breadth of the house during the war becomes completely inert and that someone is thinking of closing it completely. But not only is that railroad in question. The question is also the line of corridor 5B because it will simply not be able to carry this burden that today has to bear, let alone a future burden if we are lucky enough to work out a stronger capacity at the port of Rijeka. Corridor 5C is not built at that pace and dynamic as predicted. Therefore, we can really be in a situation that transit from Russia, Ukraine, Hungary simply will not have any direction over which it will go towards the ports of Rijeka and in the future, or at present towards the Plots. And instead of seeing an exit in a large investment cycle in railways that should provide us with a large number of jobs, we simply ignore the railroad. This state budget has nothing to do with the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme presented to us in the Croatian Parliament several months ago because in this programme, the Government is very unequivocally said, for example, that it will go into decentralisation. We do not have decentralisation, we have a higher degree of centralised because in relation to the distribution of tax revenues within the Republic of Croatia, 6% more goes to the central budget today than to the local budgets for two reasons. One is because a hack and VAT that are the revenues of the central budget has been introduced, and the other is because the reduced incomes of local self-government units based on income tax are more than 10% as seen here in the implementation of the 2009 State budget. And instead of increasing funds for decentralised functions to manage to maintain this quality of standards in education, health care, social care, care for the elderly, we ignore that fact and leave it at the level of what was this year and it is quite certain that it will not be enough to perform these functions by the end of this year either. We further promise to local self-government units that are used to being on state mangers next year that they will have just as much money. You have one complete absurdity, it's a community of civilians. In the municipality of Civljana, 168 residents live and received a grant from the state budget of more than one million kuna this year. But for next year, a million kuna donation is projected for the community of the citizens. It is absolutely the largest donation from the state budget per capita in the Republic of Croatia. I am now asking if anyone can answer me in what this money is used in the municipality of Civljana and by what criteria the municipalities of Civljani are assigned a million kunas, such as some cities that have 10,000 inhabitants or some municipalities with several thousand inhabitants. Simply all transfers that are based on assistance to local, regional and regional self-government units are defined by de facto political criteria, so I see here also that the oscillations are absolute. This year, for example, there are no Međimurje County, it is almost impossible that it does not meet these criteria because, unfortunately, in Međimurje this year, a lot of people are out of work because they are in the labour intensive industry. But we don't have Međimurje in the state budget anymore, but we do have some municipalities. It would be good for each municipality and every city receiving a grant from the state budget to have a party mark of the mayor or mayor and to see by which criteria that money is allocated. Unfortunately, we have reduced re-funds and educational separation, which is more said by my colleague Lugaric. But here we have one problem, it is an international component because unfortunately because of the home component some World Bank's world loans or the European Investment Bank are not being executed. That is why it would really be best if we pulled this budget and made a plan to get out of this crisis. Unfortunately, this budget resembles all previous budgets. The only place where we've ever thrown 100 kunas into a hole today we're going to throw 97 and that should be some comfort to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43248	Thank you very much. It's the honorary representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43249	Your Honor, Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the government, this year's budget, admitted that there is no development policy because this budget is almost identical to last year's budget. The government also sends a clear message to such a draft budget that there is no will, capacity or courage for reforms, that there is no will to reduce public spending and that it intends to do everything the way it is. I expected the Government to take a good look at the methods and measures it intends to encourage the development of the economy, to keep jobs, to reduce the level of corruption in areas with public money, to increase the efficiency of the judiciary and to realise capital projects that would facilitate the conditions of creating a new value, and then to strengthen the fiscal capacity of the state in order to provide a better service to citizens in the fields of social and health policy. It continues to give up non-productive investments, and state support is being transferred to short-term sectors that bring new value. It is necessary to invest where jobs can be created directly, i.e. to keep jobs. The government, however, is sending us a message that another 50,000 people are likely to be out of work next year. This budget will not, as well as this year, be developed because its main generators over the past seven years have been state investments, mostly large infrastructure and external borrowing. Both have reached its highest level, and that direction is no longer possible. The budgetary policy of our government obviously has no answer to these challenges but is persistently calling for a global crisis. Let us not be fooled that the crisis will go alone and that it will go away because in the European Union it is slowly coming out of the crisis, recession, but we must change our economic policy and behaviour. Our external debt is almost 100% of GDP, we have low employment, inefficient and unfair fiscal policy, excessive imports, poor exports and non-transparent spending of money from the state cash register, which is actually the result of the poor economic policy led by this government with the former defected prime minister, and this poor policy continues with the arrival of the new prime minister. This policy is unsustainable and needs to be changed. We now have before us a draft budget for 2010 from which we representatives and citizens of the Republic of Croatia should read the equal care of the central state towards all. I'm afraid that's not because this budget proposal is wide open to a centralised way of distribution of financial resources, primarily from the environment where HDZ is with coalition partners in power. The draft budget for 2010 is so inaccurate, untransparent and generally cannot read any projects and programmes, for example. for Varazdin County, as well as for other parts of Croatia. It can only be guessed whether the government will channel money through certain tenders into certain projects and programmes, but promises remain only promises until the appropriate time is shown, the time of elections when some activities are yet to take place. Well, I have to admit, this government is really taken up when it comes to vote-gathering. We have thus reached over 40 billion euros in external debt and to a huge internal debt that is largely indivisible. The result, of course, is a strong drop in purchasing power, a drop in production since half last year, an increase in unemployment, and despite worrying trends in late 2008 and early 2009, expert warnings, opposition warnings, left the right measures to ease the crisis. Also, in the 2010 budget proposal, the tourism ministry that somehow pulled out a major part of the crisis in this year on its back is reducing the donation by 4%, thus reducing the incentive to increase the competitiveness of the market by 22 million kuna, the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in tourism by 43 million kuna, cultural, traditional and natural heritage in the function of tourism 10 million kuna, etc. Here it just shows that this government's policy is bad and that it doesn't understand the difference between good and bad investment. Last week, Croatian Finance Minister Ivan Schuker said here in the Parliament that no Croatian bank has thrown any Croatian citizen on the street. Reality is something different from that. Currently called court auctions are 248 houses and 63 apartments and all these properties will be sold within the next month to two days. The statement by Minister Shuker that such things are happening only in America is being denied in the fact that every fifth execution and auction is being initiated by the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance due to citizens' debts for taxes and other taxes to the state, the administration run by Minister Ivan Schuker for six years. But you can see the bright spot at the end of the tunnel, the citizens have seen you through. First, you will be punished in the presidential elections, and then soon in the parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43250	Thank you very much. A respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43251	Well, look, the easiest thing to call this unargumented, but if you're calling it then you should know the laws, then you should know that by tax laws if you don't pay the tax debt, and if that puts the family's existence at risk then you give up the bill. So much, for the sake of the Croatian public or for the sake of showing that our laws have that human note. I think it's extremely incorrect what you said. But the biggest thing in my life is that my arguments are about these unargumented attacks, numbers and facts. If you don't believe check it out. Another thing, the denials of what you and your colleagues together with some others want have also given you Croatian banks the other day.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43252	The next debate was registered by the respected representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I am sorry that there is no other Deputy Prime Minister, i.e. Minister of Regional Development and Forestry and Water Economy Mr Pankretic, because his ministry has been singled out, and approximately 2 billion and 100 million kuna are foreseen. But what I'm going to talk about is what my theme is, and that's only 6% of those funds in his portfolio, or in his ministry. But unfortunately, it's only 0.1% in the total state budget, and that's forestry and wood industry. Of these 118 million kunas, it may be enough for someone, and I personally believe that it is not enough for those employees in the wood industry who have lost their jobs because of the non-implementation, i.e. the lack of policy of former Minister Cobankovic, as well as the current minister, and what will remain until 11 months later is about 6 and a half thousand workers in the wood industry without a job, and probably 4 to 5000 more by the end of the year, because such tree workers are announced. Last year, a thematic debate was held in the Parliament on "The State of the Wood Industry" and how the government, which is how the wood industry should be helped to overcome, means at the end of 2008 and throughout 2009, how to overcome the crisis. Then Minister Cobankovic came to the board and I commented that he had spread the umbrella and told the woodworking gentlemen of the wood growers I reduced the prices as president of the Croatian Forests Assembly, I reduced the prices of wood as much as 10% depending on the type of wood, and you have nothing more to ask. Those are my measurements. What happened after that? It happened that the customers, since the wood industry is the largest exporter and that all exports are covered, i.e. imports in the wood industry covered by even the surplus, it happened that foreign customers said they had reduced the price of their products. By reducing the price of their products normally that workers had to be fired, normally that Croatian forests also came to the dubiosis where today's claims from wood growers reach more than 450 million kunas of finished demand from wood growers, but thus they also got to the Croatian forests because they can't implement the basics of management, they can't carry out the prescribed forest and breeding work. Last year, it was projected to help the wood industry through 57 million kuna. In what way this helps speak the very fact. It is likely that this is the practice of all competitions towards the ministries that most likely similar and most similar receive especially those that finance the ruling party's campaign in such a way that they receive a debt reprogramme from the Tax Administration to the state and thus are able to compete in the competition and thus receive funds from these funds, i.e. from these funds. Unfortunately, it's not just practice in the wood industry. It is also in the textile industry, as well as in other competitions conducted by the Government or the Ministry. This year, 65 and a half million kuna of direct aid to the wood industry is scheduled for this year. It says that 500,000 kunas will be foreseen, i.e. will be designed to co-finance performances on the high-rises and will be left to be divided according to the wood industry development programme in the Republic of Croatia. Is that enough, it probably isn't and the wood growers aren't happy with it. The question and socially responsible purchases are asked whether we have to build sports halls to build whether we have to install an foreign parquet or whether we have our own manufacturers who can produce it, who can install it. It is obvious that there is no such thing in this government's policy and that this will be a problem again. What's interesting, and it's foreseen here in the budget is the establishment of a wood-processing inspection, and it's also constantly talking about some kind of tree law or one that was withdrawn a year ago. He was in the first reading. Unfortunately, the government did not deliver it to another reading. For what reason? Probably pressed again by the lobbying exporters of the sawed building and elements, not the finalist. The other thing about hunting is the forest advisory service. According to the Forest Act, the Forest Advisory Service was established, i.e. according to the Government's regulation, and now accounts for about 85 employees in the activity as a public undertaking. But it is a parallel company only here is financed purely from the state budget according to the Croatian forests. It's been since '96. the year '97, respectively. Croatian forests worked regularly in private forests and there was order on the market... Since then, there is no longer any advisory service, rather than the rounding of forest properties, i.e. forest owners to associate them with cooperatives, it is now establishing branches I say parallel organization with Croatian forests, which anyway with too many employees has problems in the functioning and excessive debt of its customers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not as much a problem as 14 million kunas are directly allocated to the advisory service, for its salaries, but the problem is something else. According to the forest advisory service, it produces forest economic programs and is paid by the state or by the OkFŠ, the general user of the function of the forest, which is paid again by all income makers in the Republic of Croatia, according to the Law on the Forests 007% or that would not be a problem if it were really those forest owners who are on small surfaces, who do not have... organized forests and in such a way as to inventory the forest, to invetarize what can and should be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the problem is when the state pays back forest and forest land somewhere around 150 thousand hectares that were arranged to own the state, i.e. in the management of Croatian forests, and the State's Attorney's Office did not work in accordance with the Return Act in Article 49 to settle and compensate for the difference in value of the forest and now we are paying again from KEFŠ's funds, we again pay for the production of programs for these same skills. Also here in the description of this situation, i.e. the programme stands and says that forest advisory services will be paid to licensed operators to maintain forest roads in private forests. And down there, he says it's 14 to 30 million kuna. So whom does the state pay to the private sector to arrange the roads for him, when Article 47 is 5. The forest law states that local self-government does so from forest rent funds, i.e. 2 and a half percent from sales revenue. For demining, however, everything is predicted to be 1 million kunas, and it is predicted that there are 7 and a half thousand hectares under mine suspected areas, etc., etc. Therefore, it is obvious that the ministry has no quality policy, nor... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43254	Thank you. Time. Time's up, 10 minutes out of time. Thank you. Next in line is Honorable Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43255	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Government. Let me also present several facilities related to the 2010 budget of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, what I would like to stress firstly is that from year to year, the share of the budget they would say has been allocated in advance to different users in continuity is growing, which is particularly dangerous because over several years, the state will be brought into this situation that will practically have all the funds allocated in advance, and there will be almost no funding left for any investment, and that means any possibility of new development without new borrowings. Croatia must therefore seriously adhere to a different way of using funds from the state budget, so one systematic reform of budgetary users in order to free the funds that the state must have to invest, because with this relationship we cannot really expect in the next year and the minimum GDP growth that we expected. What does this mean, in particular, on one example perhaps of the Croatian Railways at this time, for which 9% less is foreseen in the following year, than has been foreseen so far by the budget for this year. Although Croatian railways are an extremely large consumer of state budget funds, we have witnessed that although the last 15 years have been extremely often changed by Croatian Railways administrations, it has practically failed in such a large system to ensure greater internal economicity, nor modernisation that would gain better effects. Because of this, and this 9% reduction in funding in the following year, one shock for the Croatian railways themselves, one amount that will be very difficult for them to endure, and on the other hand we are witnessing accidents that occur and whose frequency if we continue to grow this way clearly. Therefore, the state will have to perform a certain procedure in the Croatian Railways, for which it will practically not have the opportunities and resources or new borrowing. When it comes to rail infrastructure, practically 80% of the funds it uses on employees' salaries. So there remains absolutely no means to repair and modernise existing railway infrastructure, and this is an unsustainable situation because practically certain directions will no longer be able to use what has already been said here. When it comes to rebuilding the vehicles themselves, the wagons will also not have enough resources, but either certain lines will have to be abolished, or there will be extremely serious consequences for the car manufacturers, and we know that their dependence on this entire system will also be high. I would also like to say a few words about the area from which I come from, so from eastern Croatia, which has gone very badly with this budget. When it comes to the budget relating to the Ministry of Justice, practically in Slavonia for the reconstruction of zero kuna court buildings, for health care and social care, for any new investment in Slavonia, with the exception of 100 thousand kuna for the Zero Kun Rehabilitation Centre. Education is almost zero kuna from this system of state budgets, and when this is added to reducing the support system in agriculture and fisheries, then Slavonia is waiting for an extremely difficult year and we need to warn here. I fear that it will be particularly difficult in the construction sector next year in Slavonia, as large investments are also excluded from the budget. They will not be financed, which will have a particularly bad impact on the movement of the unemployed who are growing drastically in that part of Croatia. But I think it is also necessary to highlight the issue of helping municipalities and cities in the state budget. So I'll be free to read something from page 42. The municipality of Tordinci and the municipality of Germans in the following year nothing, but the municipality of Trpinja 2 million 155 thousand kuna. Then there are there with Trpinju Negoslavci, Markusica, Šodolovci, Civilization, Ervenik, Kistanje, Bishopija, Donji Kukruzuari etc. This lady and gentlemen is not a description of the enemy uprisings, this is not a list of those places where aggression started in the Republic of Croatia, this is a list of municipalities that receive exceptional funds from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. So when we look at the poor municipalities of Sibenik, for example, one by one with practically the same number of inhabitants, such as Promina and Kistanje municipalities. The municipality of Kistanje over 3 million kuna, the municipality of Promina 543 thousand kuna. So what are they to say, these unfortunate Croats who live in these poor municipalities beside these others, where a different structure of the inhabitants deserved that they do not receive practically any funds unlike these municipalities that they receive from them enormous resources. Well, it's a tragic situation. It's not one of the municipalities. It's not two, three to say it's an accident to intervene there. Well, that's a full list of municipalities with the majority Serb population. Maybe they're poor. But the poor and these neighbouring Croatia. These were people exiled and killed in the Homeland War. And practically now, the result is that they get almost nothing from the state budget after the implementation of the budget. And these, I say, are not a list of enemy riots, they get millions in government budgets. It is unacceptable for us in Croatia, and we must warn. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43256	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43257	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I'm sure it's the easiest thing to criticise on the side of the opposition. But I would try to look more at the income side than I would at the expense, for there is always easier to look for when there is no funds. We have proposed certain laws in front of the IDS MPs' Club, which we have proposed to save without affecting normally the electoral system itself, because we believe when it is spared that it should be saved from all sides. But on the other hand, I would like to warn myself that I have an unquality investment management, because we have a situation where a new facility cannot meet the technical requirements of the project and after that, funds must be provided to de facto the new facility to be recovered. It's an irresponsible investment management. I also think that property management creates one opportunised cost, because certain activities especially in tourism do not happen. And I think that in our country besides production, I primarily think about the production with which we are on the world market such as shipbuilding, we should definitely invest in service activities in tourism. And that's why it pains me that despite the successful tourist season, at least as a form of support, it was supposed to leave tourism alone at last year's level, not to reduce it. And I'm also sure that economic activity can only be stimulated in a way to support the best. Because constantly saving those who sink, unfortunately only agony deepens. Therefore, I cannot say again that it is necessary to preserve shipbuilding, because it is one of the few world products that we can offer today, highly sophisticated and that surely now is not the time to privatise successful ones. Because I don't know who's going to invest on the world market today in buying a "Oilant" that's doing a positive job, when we know that shipping in shipbuilding isn't coming back as fast as in some other activities. But on the other hand, I certainly have to look back to the end I come from, and that's Istria, that's my city of Pula, where it hurts me when an accident happens, when a complete elementary school burns down, and despite my promises, I don't see any June in the 2010 budget. I don't know why that is, is it really a problem because that school burned down in the city of Pula? I also cannot understand that the new Pulska Hospital project provided a little more than 2 million kuna, when it is not enough to pay VAT on a project of a new general hospital. And what I also want to point out, and I'm basically in the form of an amendment, it hurts an unequal attitude towards all universities. First of all, I think of the newly founded University of Pula. But I would say that we had one good chance of investing in the financial sector that we missed, which is a project of recapitalisation of the Croatian Post Bank. I, as mayor of Pula, put budgets in the Croatian bank. First of all, I mean Croatian property. And I wonder how many budget users of state and other local authorities keep money in Croatian banks. How much we protect our own economy, which we certainly can, because our own economy means keeping jobs, means better social status for our citizens. I also think that just by investing in our own financial sector, we can count tomorrow on economic development, on investment development, and not just on the consumption of import products. And finally, I would say some of the measures that we have managed to implement in my midst and that have provided significant savings, primarily united insurance, somewhere around 20% has been saved that way, and you know what it means to save only one item 20%, not to reduce the quality of the service. Fixed and mobile telephony somewhere around 48% of the savings, combined acquisition of office material of security services and not counting any further. So I'd say we should look at ourselves realistically. I think it would be good if the budget were to be implemented in 2010. I'm afraid not. But if the financial potential of the budget falls, it does not mean that we should still not invest in those who can withdraw tomorrow, which are successful Croatian companies that can ensure growth, development and exports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43258	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. SDP club Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43259	Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club considers that the proposed budget is not in the function of economic growth or the function of leaving the entire economy from the economic crisis in 2009, and in particular 2010. The 2010 budget does not indicate ways to address the problem of 50,000 lost jobs in 2009 and we do not recognize in the budget the measures to stop the announced new 50,000 lost jobs announced by employers. We also do not find measures in the budget to address the growing problem of liquidity, so we are also afraid of jeopardising the security of payouts in the real sector. Furthermore, the club estimates that the stopped investments in 2009 and the budget suggests that stronger, more significant investments will not be made in 2009 or, in particular, state interventions when we talk about investing in railway infrastructure, in the reconstruction of railway companies such as freight transport and tow and we see no signs of investment in HEP, means energy for the Republic of Croatia. And all of this means jeopardizing nearly 700 thousand real-sector jobs that essentially generates a newly created value and without investment will have some difficulties. Furthermore, the club believes that too many real sector employees are the ones who, in fact, with such proposed budgets, no longer have the necessary security for which the budget still needs to send the necessary message. Therefore, the club also considers it necessary to change the structure of the revenue side of the budget, which can change the fiscal policy that should be in the function of discharging the real sector, encouraging the real sector to invest and invest, retaining workers rather than firing them. And of course, very important management of national resources in function... On the other hand, such an important change in the revenue side means a responsible policy in the control of expenditure parties and the expenditure side means essentially the implementation of a series of necessary reforms that are unfortunately not found in the 2010 budget or in the fiscal projections of 11 and 12 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What the SDP Club estimates is that other than these bad messages, we have a huge waste of time. With this kind of budget acceptance, we'll spend another year and another expense that's irreparable. And that is why the SDP club is proposing conclusions that we propose not to accept such a proposal, to task the Government to propose a debate next week on the 2010 interim financing decision and to seriously discuss fiscal changes and these changes in the revenues of the state budget in the next three months, as well as a series of reforms and all in the function of fostering the development and exit of the economy from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43260	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43261	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank all those who have discussed as well as every time in the budget different views, different proposals. But what I would do if I put out these criticisms would at least make a second-level draft budget so that Croatian citizens can see what it looks like. Then you'd see what tax changes mean because I say no one's gonna forgive me for saying crazy not to do things if it can change that way. But if you're talking to 50, 60 people who do this job and they just say that there's no room for it, if we mix up a little local, a little stately, if we're going to budget what's not in the budget, then that's how it turns out. I've said it several times today, and it can be checked out by anyone who wants to do so by the MPs, they can come to the Ministry of Finance, and you'll see that as far as the state budget is concerned, so what is paid from the state budget is paid in time. You can even check what might be the most important thing for entrepreneurs and within which time limits the value added tax returns. So much for the state budget. You weren't late for pay, you weren't late for retirement, you were late for any pay. That's the facts. This is what is in the narrow authority of the Resolute Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At no time have we escaped from certain companies in the majority ownership of the state having problems paying. You know well, after issuing the first Eurobonds in the 5th month after HABOR received some loans, then opened the space and Croatian highways, Croatian roads and HEP received over 400m euros in loans and there the situation improved. To talk about private sector indifference and to push it into the budget so that this budget should be resolved I think that as inflation and all crisis situations when the atmosphere is created that something a lot of these abuses is unfortunately. You had that bill on dues and outstanding claims. Remember, unfortunately, nothing could be solved. You have so many blocked companies today, but the biggest problem is what I put out on the current morning, and here I think we should do something together, that over 60% of these blocked companies are without any employees at the nominal amount and also in this. From one to five and not one employee when you add up, that's 84%. Very few are blocked by those 24,000 companies, very few are blocked companies that have a significant number of employees. And that's what I keep saying and I hope that fellow Simunovic will do this to change the court register where we will simply prohibit the establishment of companies that do not bring confirmation that they have no claim against the state, whether it is legal or natural persons. And what's for sure, without painful structural reforms, is impossible to settle the expenditure side. But then I would pray that when we do such things, and if we agree that we should do them in order to give our hand and make these painful cuts further, and not when it was proposed in the 4th month that we would reduce the pay 6% because it was simply such a projection that it had to be done, it was a counterreaction, that today it would be a reaction that 30 thousand people should be fired. So we finally came to the point that we needed to cut the amount of pay money. I sincerely hope that those things that we are planning to do next year and as regards different and allocation and implementation of support, different ways, and also some painful cuts, doors and my ministry, as well as these new functions, my colleague Linić and you and your associates are open. Let's make a deal and let's really show that we want to do something, and not just declare it, let's finally turn that declaration into something concrete in these times of crisis. Thank you very much, once again, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43262	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The deadline for submitting the amendment is tomorrow, Friday to 11:00. We will vote on the final draft state budget on Wednesday (December 2nd).
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43263	We are moving to the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012. Proposals for financial plans for extra budget users for 2010 with projections for 2011 and 2012 (a) Croatian Waters, (b) Croatian Roads, (c) Croatian Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation Agency, (d) Croatian Privatisation Fund, (e) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the 2010 proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and the 2011 and 2012 projections. The debate is closed. Please, the quorum we have established, first we will declare the amendments submitted, the amendment proposal is divided into benches. I'd like the Deputy Prime Minister and Mr. Ivan Shucker's finance minister to show up on the proposed amendments. We have the first representative Branimir Glavas, representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić and Boro Grubišić, for damages caused by elemental accidents, so to section 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43264	Therefore, the government does not accept for the reason why it is proposed that 100 million kunas, which would increase the position of compensation for damages, reduce the modernisation of the construction of the railway infrastructure, reduce the funds for the Croatian railways, and reduce this position for this amount in general would question the functioning of the Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43265	Thank you. Representative Mr Ivan DRmić on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43266	The government has so far spent little money on this purpose, this year it has been further reduced. In addition, it is selectively available for this money, unevenly and I think that by adopting such an amendment we would meet all Croatian needs. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43267	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment of MP Zlatko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43268	The government does not accept because, under the Law on the financing of political parties and independent lists and candidates, the allocation of funds to political parties is defined. And the other thing is also defined by the laws that saves have the right to secure savings with credit institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43269	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, is he here? It's not. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. Representative Boro Grubisic, 3rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43270	The government simply cannot accept it, because if it had accepted this amendment then it would have questioned the functioning of the entire interior ministry because it is about reducing the basic costs for police work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43271	I am not pleased with the answer, Mr. Minister, given that five years ago, former Prime Minister Sanader was in Slavonski Brod at a meeting of the government and promised to extend the construction license twice for the Slavonski Brod Police Administration. That's what this is about. I'd like a vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43272	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Bora Grubisic, Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43273	The government does not accept, because at this point there is simply no possibility of extra funding being allocated to such investment projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43274	Mr. Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43275	Mr. Shuker, I know you're not from the war on the lost area and that you probably haven't met mine areas. To date, there are 215 victims in Croatia and 38 of them killed, with these minefields played by children and government from year to year, and it is obvious that it will take another ten years for Croatia to clear itself from mines and unfortunately there will be more victims. I ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43276	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. Representative Boro Grubisic, Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43277	The government does not accept because the funds for the construction of entrepreneurship zones are secured at the position of the Ministry of Economy and a public tender is being opened in 2010 in which all units of local self-government can apply with their programmes and thus obtain funds. So these funds aren't predisbursed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43278	Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43279	Mr. Minister, the same contest was opened for 2009 and the Municipality of Slavonski Šamac for its industrial zone was a candidate for 800,000 kuna and received assurances of the guarantee whatever you want from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that these funds would be recognised in Slavonski Šamac but this year they did not, and if there was a promise, as they say of crazy joy, and that next year it would obviously not, in the same way. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43280	Who is to this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. The sixth amendment of the same representative, Mr Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43281	The same explanation, units of local and regional self-government should report to a public tender that will be called during 2010. And different funds cannot be allocated but through a public tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43282	Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43283	So it's about the economic zone of "Beliš", about 100 acres of surface and most importantly about the project to say in the direction or sense of the economy of Slavonski Brod and here's again as we saw for Slavonski Šamac the same thing. I've asked for 10 million kunas to complete this industrial zone and I request the vote of my colleagues and colleagues in connection with this amendment, the industrial zone "Beliš" Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43284	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment, please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The seventh amendment of the same representative, Mr Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43285	The local self-government unit, therefore, should report to a public tender for the construction of a technological park because, under the law, there is no possibility of predetermining funds for individual projects, but rather, this is being resolved by a public tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43286	Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43287	Obviously, the municipalities in which it is, therefore, the "Technological Park Nova Gradiška" which plays a very important role in the work of the industrial park in Nova Gradisca. I've been looking for an amendment of 5 million kuna for the development of this tech park, but apparently municipalities and cities where HDZ is not in power can't get anything. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43288	Thank you. Who is Mr Bora Grubisic for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The eighth amendment by representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43289	The government does not accept for reasons why the Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, makes a public call. This programme has not been notified to a designated invitation from the Ministry of Culture and cannot be considered as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43290	Mr. Ivan Drmic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43291	This building is public well-being and is not the only reason for the recovery of this good state of culture. This building could be useful for uniting the work of the administrative authorities in one location, which would especially reduce costs and save the old building that is very well known in Osijek and is the main building in Gaje’s square. It's a building where the catering school was, it's empty now, and it's a shame it's going down there. The county and local administration have no money, since you yourself know the state of the budgets. The state isn't decentralized, you pick up all the money at the Ministry of Finance, you spend it, and you share it with the local administration on droplets. I would ask you to separate at least from that State budget some of the money you've collected on the ground to adapt and protect that building from collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43292	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The ninth amendment of MP Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43293	The government does not accept for the reason that the financing of these projects is defined by the Law on the financing of public needs in culture. However, as opposed to the previous amendment, this programme has been registered to an open competition and the Ministry of Culture will therefore consider and make appropriate decisions regarding this programme. As for many others, decisions cannot be made in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43294	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43295	Thank you, Mr. President. It's about the youth center, and here we swear to rule, to education, to our young. It is a youth centre in Slavonski Brod and an amount of 500 thousand kuna that would definitely solve this burning problem for young people in 5 or 6 cities by size in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, I'm afraid these competitions at the Ministry of Culture of Slavonski Brod didn't bring too much, so here's the thing, please vote colleagues and colleagues on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43296	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. The tenth amendment of the same representative, Mr Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43297	And the same explanation. The programme was registered on a call from the Ministry of Culture and will be discussed during 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43298	Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43299	Let me explain. It is about rebuilding and redistributing the firehouse in Slavonski Brod, which is a very, very specific architecture from the time of secession and I have sought out the budget by redistributing also 500 thousand kuna so that the facility does not fail and to gain at its glow that was 150 years ago. Here's an explanation for what it is, and I'm asking for a vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43300	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 11th amendment of the same representative, Mr Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43301	The same explanation as for the previous one, the programme was registered to an open tender at the invitation of the Ministry of Culture and will be discussed in 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43302	Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43303	So this is about the former, to say the cinema Croatian home, which was founded in 1925 for the thousandth anniversary of King Tomislav's coronation in Slavonski Brod, in a therefore central, central place. And it is indeed in a derutical state, it was also required an amount of 500 thousand kuna for what, for the first hand, to repair and edit this Croatian home which is right here in the Croatian Parliament and from the Croatian Government, I am afraid will not get support, and we will see more from the Ministry of Culture what will be. I'd like a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43304	Who is Mr Bora Grubisic for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 12th Amendment of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43305	The programme is registered to the programme of the Ministry of Culture and will be discussed in 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43306	Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43307	Obviously, we in Slavonski Brod have many objects abandoned, cultural objects of first-class importance, but here we are all going to the Ministry of Culture which otherwise seem to me to be a little more scarce for next year, so we will see if this Brlicevic is going to be able to rebuild and edit "Vile Brlicevic", the Brlic family at all. So, the villa I've been looking for is also about 500 thousand kuna, but here's the answer, and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment, about the Brlic family who has charged the whole of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43308	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 13th amendment of the same representative, Mr Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43309	The government does not accept because the programme is not registered in the tender and thus cannot be considered for consideration.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43310	Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43311	Here, not only do we have such objects of first-class importance in the town of Brodi Stupnik, but also in the municipality of Brodi Stupnik we have so-called. "Jadar military" from the time of Austro-Hungarian Republic with a truly specific architecture and which is in a state of collapse. So I also asked for 800,000 kuna for restoration. It used to be a library. It could be a future library, but unfortunately it's not even registered to a competition at the Ministry of Culture. I also call on the Municipality of Brod Stupnik and its chief of staff to run this project towards the Ministry of Culture. I'd like a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43312	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He did not get the required majority of the 14th amendment from the same representative, Mr. Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43313	The government does not accept for the reason that the programme was registered on a registered invitation from the Ministry of Culture and will be discussed during 2010. I repeat, as with previous amendments, no advance decision on the amount of funds for individual projects can be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43314	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43315	Mr. Schuker, I don't know how Minister Bishop will determine the funds for all these tenders if you say and do not know if you have secured those funds. Indeed, it is a completely uncertain fate of the Fortress "ship", which for all those who were in Slavonski Brod is a first-class tourist attraction that was created 250 years ago in Slavonski Brod. This money I've been looking for in the amount of 13 million and 140 thousand kuna is for the construction of the eastern part of the Fortress "Boat" with the streets of the Old crafts. So, something that is important for both Brod and Slavonia, but also for Croatia. The money obviously doesn't have much for Slavonia. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43316	Who's in favor of this amendment, please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15th Amendment of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43317	The government does not accept for reasons why calls and applications for funds may be made at the invitation of the Ministry of Culture. However, only along the way to point out that for the same request, the financing of sacral objects in 2009 was set aside by the Ministry of Culture in Osijek-Baranja County by 4 million and 600 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43318	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Drmić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43319	Many sacral objects located in Slavonia and Baranja were shelled at the time of the war, were devastated. Many are in a war - occupied area at that time and local self - government and people living there do not have enough money to rebuild these facilities themselves. In addition to material value, these sacral objects have cultural significance, not only for the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja, but for the citizens of all Croatia. I'm asking the government to help rebuild these facilities, to resuscitate, because the war that was being waged there and the damage that was suffered has been suffered because this whole country was being created. Not people fought for their house, this war was not because of Slavonia and Baranja, but because of the whole country the same way for those people living in Zagreb and Split, as well as in Slavonia and Baranja. I think the least the state can do is financially help that these war damages are materially remedied. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43320	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16th Amendment of the same representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43321	The government does not accept for the reason that each year, according to its capabilities, the ministry provides funds for the maintenance and equipment of the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek and until the founders provide funds for those purposes even though they are required under the law. Therefore, if the city of Osijek and the founder provides funds, the Ministry of Culture gives funds each year to maintain and edit the Croatian National Theatre.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43322	Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43323	So it is the amount of millions and 800,000 kuna for the construction of the depot of the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek, I stress the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek. Therefore, the Croatian National Theatre in Osijek does not have the right space for the disposal of towers and costumes, and there is their destruction or damage. So it is really urgent to build a theater depot of a thousand 500 square meters where theatre towers, costumes and equipment can be stored qualityly. It is also necessary to address the air conditioning of the theater building. That is why we have asked for this amount of millions and 800 thousand kuna for the only Croatian National Theatre in Slavonia and Baranja, that is, our part of the continental part of the Republic of Croatia. But here's like all the other cultural needs, if we were to add all of this together and transfer it to the Ministry of Culture as Mr. Schucker suggests, then the ministry would be out of money in January. That's why we think it was necessary to intervene and Mr Shucker in terms of the central money, or the ministry that shares that money. I'd like a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43324	Who's for this amendment number 16? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17th Amendment of the same representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43325	The government does not accept for the reason that a sub-basement reconstruction programme has been notified to continue the gallery and the programme will be considered in 2010. It should be noted that over the past two years, 800,000 kunas from the state budget have been allocated to the Gallery of Fine Arts in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43326	Mr. Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43327	The Gallery of Fine Arts from Osijek is one of the largest and most important galleries in Croatia. She currently does not have good working conditions and you know it very well and this recovery and enlargement was prepared long ago in 1996. After that, when it is your turn to allocate money from the state budget for the project to be completed, the project is being transferred from plan to plan. Now we see that he is not even in the 2010-2012 plan anymore. I would ask you to raise money for a cultural project like this in Slavonia and Baranja. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43328	Who's for this amendment number 17? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 18th Amendment of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43329	The government does not accept for the reason that the 2010 budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has provided sufficient resources for the implementation of the programme, which is in line with EU conditions and recommendations. And let us not forget that next year we are able to pull out of the EU 750 million kuna programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43330	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43331	This last thing Mr. Minister said is indeed an illusion of how much we draw EU funds from pre-accession funds. Enough to say that only one project from SAPARD went through last year. Namely, it's about amendments that are for... in agriculture for market interventions, for horizontal support measures for the food-processing industry and for investment support for agriculture and fisheries, it looks for a total of one billion and 894 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The division of which Mr. Minister speaks, namely agriculture, fisheries and rural development, shows a reduction in the amount of subsidies compared to 2009. The issue of payment to farmers is therefore raised, up from 205 million for 2008. So obviously our agriculture is being written black days, however you explain that there will be enough money, that there will be enough pre-accession funds. Unfortunately, in our opinion, it won't be like that. I'm afraid to say so. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43332	Thank you. Who's for this amendment number 18? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to the 19th Amendment of the same representatives, Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43333	The government does not accept this because these projects are financed from Croatian Waters and are entered into the programme of financing the building of dependence on the degree of preparation of the investment and technical documentation, as well as the building permit.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43334	Mr. Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43335	There is a big problem with drinking water in Slavonia. Unfortunately, there is a problem with excess water. Obviously, as you can see from this amendment, we have major problems with the harmful effects of Slavonic rivers. No coastal fortifications have been made. Also, in Beliss, the river is often poured out, the river pours out, floods households, and destroys drinking water. I think that the government should certainly be involved in the financing of such a project because it guarantees the quality of life of citizens in the area of Slavonia and Baranja. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43336	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the same MPs number 20?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43337	It is not accepted for the simple reason that the financing of water structures to protect against harmful activities of water is not financed from the state budget, but by the resources of water charges that are income from Croatian waters. Therefore, this amendment is not accepted for this reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43338	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43339	It is 48 million kuna that are intended to regulate the Danube River coast, which flows through Croatia for 138km and is very often eroding the coast, and most often to the detriment of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so as one border with Vojvodina or the Republic of Serbia. So, moving the trough towards the mainland part of the state territory of the Republic of Croatia takes place, with all the damage that is happening every year, as we watch on our television because of the flood in Baranja in connection with the flood of the Danube River. That is why, and as you said in the Croatian Waters budget, we do not find such a position for the Danube River coast, so we are asking for a vote in connection with this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43340	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21st Amendment of the same representatives, Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43341	The government does not accept for the reason that the investor of that project is the Agency for Development of the Osijek-Baranja County and further financing will depend solely on the preparation of the necessary technical documentation by investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43342	Here you go, Mr. Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43343	Osijek-Baranja County has agreed to develop a irrigation plan for the Osijek-Baranja County area. This does not mean that Osijek-Baranja County is an investor and I think that certainly the state should be involved in the implementation of this project, especially since the elections give rise to the Croatian Democratic Community's promises to resolve the irrigation of Slavonia and Baranja. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43344	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 22nd amendment of the same representatives, Branimir Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43345	The government does not accept, because these projects are not financed by the state budget but by the resources of the Croatian waters and therefore cannot go to the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43346	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43347	It was all from the same bag, Mr. Shucker, either from the water economy, or from the state budget. So it's about the same money as the same citizens and the same people. So here we were looking for 15 million kunas in connection with the arrangements of the Drava River coastal fortification to the mouth of the Danube River. In fact, the documents of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia when we were establishing the wateriness of our rivers, then it was found that the Drava River was being watered all the way there to Belisce. This is exactly how this paper the Parliament brought in remains a dead letter on paper. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43348	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 23rd amendment of the same representatives, Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43349	The government simply cannot accept it because the law defines that these projects are not financed from the state budget but are financed from the resources of water compensation, water contribution and water treatment fees that are the original revenue of Croatian waters. Therefore, projects like this are funded from Croatian waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43350	Thank you. Mr. Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43351	I disagree with you. I don't think there would be any problem if you were involved in financing this project. The project would resolve the shift of the decommissioned cargo terminal in Osijek, the construction of a river port in Osijek, which Osijek is now missing, would solve the merger of the Lower and Upper Town, a big deal for Osijek. And it would also solve a major problem of parking in Osijek Clinical Hospital. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43352	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24th Amendment of Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43353	The government does not accept because the project's nomination for the Integrated Development Programme of Local Units of the City of Pula was not nominated for the project. The deadline for the location of all projects, in fact, the sub-projects to the European Investment Bank, was 30.12.2008. So if you haven't located the project in time and suggested it, you can't expect funds from...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43354	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43355	Your Honor, Mr. President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. This is a project that solves not only the City of Pula but all the municipalities of southern Istria for the reason that the bypass is certainly the biggest road problem in Istria County. Therefore, we are talking about how we can stimulate the economy, in which we can encourage tourism. It is certain that resolving traffic is something that these destinations can be more competitive on the tourist market. The city itself can't finance this on its own. We've spoken to the Ministry several times. We received some clues to help, but there are no items in the budget. I therefore request a statement on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43356	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25th Amendment of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43357	The government does not accept for the reason that the dynamics of the financing of works will primarily depend on the degree of preparation of the investment and technical documentation and the outcome of the building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43358	Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43359	Mr. Minister, since the days of the ancient Romans, there has been a platoon in that orderly state of the Roman Empire, later the Western Roman Empire. Namely, it is the water supply system of Osijek-Baranja County, which covers only 40% of the water network. So, the county that takes over 10% of the territory of almost the Republic of Croatia and almost as many inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia are covered by a water network in percentage of 40. Well, now, if our country in 2010, so in 2000 since the Roman Empire still holds Slavonia at 40% water supply, then let's really do it your way, but I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43360	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26th Amendment of Representative Zlatko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43361	The government cannot accept for one simple technical reason because the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is responsible for the textile industry and this resolute Ministry of Textile Industry, while the Ministry of Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy is resilient for the wood industry and, on the basis of this, 1613 improvement of the wood industry cannot be changed and the improvement of wood and textile industry cannot be reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43362	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43363	Mr. Vice-President of the Government, so the amendment refers to both the incentive for textile and wood industry support. I don't think I have to say that, we know that over the past year over tens of thousands of jobs have been abolished in the textile industry. The government, however, has made a strategy for the development of the textile industry, but that strategy needs to be helped. So, maybe it's about some formal... lack of amendments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in any case, they should be incentives for these two branches, because in the town of Varazdin where I come from, it's extremely important, and I have to say that the city of Varazdin is doing the most it can to help these branches within its capabilities but, of course, without state support, there is no progress, and I think that it should provide support to these branches. I ask you to make a statement to the Parliament on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43364	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27th Amendment of Representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43365	The government does not accept, because the projects will be financed by the Croatian Waters and local self-government, and the dynamics of their funding will depend on the preparation of investment and technical documentation and on the outcome of building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43366	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43367	In this country, it's always done backwards. Namely, there is a project that is over and in full, therefore, performing works, which is the highway of eastern Slavonia. So it's the plumbing. I was here looking for a total of 15 million kuna for the construction of the drain right where the largest ground water reserves in the Republic of Croatia are located. And now in this area that affects, therefore the municipalities of Babina Greda, Štitar, Gundance, Sikirevce, Slavonski Šamac and Velika Kopanica are not being drained. So how do you think that water in the waterway of Eastern Slavonia will be when all the water is gone, not to say from the pigsty and everything else flows freely through the channels in that region. It's a mini-regional where a joint drain could be made for all these villages. And I'm just saying in this area are the largest drinking water reserves in the Republic of Croatia, underground reserves. That is why it is necessary to design and build the drain as soon as possible for these six municipalities. I'm asking for a vote, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43368	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 28th Amendment of Representatives Glavas, Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43369	The government does not accept for the simple reason that the dynamics of works will depend on the preparation of investment and technical documentation, and the establishment of building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43370	Mr. Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43371	The draining and treatment of wastewater in Slavonia and Baranja is very low, unsatisfactory. This has not been solved in most areas except in the areas of larger cities. The state did not comply with the financial agreements it signed with local administrations to resuscitate and improve the situation. The bigger problem is that these works are all started. Devices and other infrastructures that have been started, and are not finished with the currently unprotected collapse and are creating a major problem at its maintenance because it is not put into operation at all. The government can simply resolve this to allocate funds for these projects to be completed. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43372	Who is for this amendment 28? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29 of the same representatives of Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43373	The government doesn't accept. But here, there is a need for a slightly wider explanation for the simple reason that, within the PHARE 2006 programme, projects to develop institutional capacities and prepare a series of EU Structural Funds projects have been provided technical assistance to prepare Osijek for funding from EU funds. The project therefore consists of five components. The first is the construction and arrangement of wastewater treatment devices. The second is the treatment of drinking water, the upgrade of the drinking water conditioning device. Three water supplies. Four rehabilitations of wastewater disposal systems and five rehabilitations of the secondary drain system. So the estimated value of the investment is 60m euros. After the necessary studies, feasibility studies, cost-benefit studies, environmental impact studies and the necessary project documentation, the draft project proposal will be submitted to the European Commission for approval and financing. It is therefore in the city of Osijek to prepare this all together in order to be able to run for EU funds. And you must be aware that we will not get any lip from Brussels if the project programmes are not adequately prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43374	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43375	Well, it's just the amendment, Mr. Shucker, and it's about that. It's not just 60m euros, it's 500,000 euros. So it is 3 million and 650,000 kunas for the production of documentation sought by the city of Osijek whose surroundings the city of Osijek itself has about 300,000 inhabitants. And here's how we're going to even ask for 60 million euros when we can't here and we can't borrow 3 million and 600. Come on. I'm looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43376	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 30th Amendment of Representative Boris Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43377	Therefore, the Government is aware of the importance of this project and, therefore, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has proposed, therefore, that the port dam be remedied by common funds in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia would participate, i.e. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the County of Istria and the city of Pula and the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure made a series of contacts with the European Investment Bank in 2009 to obtain a loan to resuscitate the facility. So the Ministry of the Sea will do its part of the job, but the city of Pula and the County of Istria must do their part of the job, because in all local self-government units located on the Adriatic coast, in the largest case local self-government units, with the help of the state finance such facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43378	So what's the conclusion now? Do we accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43379	We don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43380	Oh, we don't accept. Here you go, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43381	So local self-government must have done its part of the job, because all project documentation has been completed including confirmation of the main project, i.e. building permit. However, an independent project is worth around 13m euros, and the resolution itself requires at least 57m kuna. I believe you are aware that from the budgets of the port administration of Pula Istria County, it is not possible to resuscitate on its own. What I'm afraid of, and we could see pictures on information shows, Venice is think a meter underwater. That could happen to Pula, unfortunately. This harbor was built by another Austro-Hungarian 100 years ago. It never ended until the end, but a recovery is necessary because a disaster of immeasurable proportions can simply occur. That's why I asked for co-financing. So it's not all about funding, it's about co-financing of this project by the state. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43382	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 31st amendment of representatives Branimir Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43383	Therefore, the government does not accept the reason why it is in accordance with the investment programme for the county ports and ports, and within... and the development of transport ports in the internal waters of the Republic of Croatia, the financial means required to ensure Osijek-Baranja County. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43384	Ivan Drmic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43385	Mr. Minister, you know very well that the local administration cannot finance in view of these small budgets that you have filled, and you take most of the money to the Ministry of Finance, to the state budget, and from the amendment to the amendment we hear that you are not obliged to finance anything. This is one project that is very important for Slavonia and Baranja. It's a river port in the Danube. It is very important for the development of the Slavonian economy, especially tourism, because Baranja is an area where most people work in tourism. However, this tourism is still not on such a branch of development that it could live as well as in Dalmatia. This is one project for which all building permits are ready and all it takes is money from the state budget to be realised very quickly. I would ask you to help, because it is your duty and obligation and oath to do so, to help these people in Baranja and that part of the eastern Slavonia to enable them, in this way, this investment to give them the chance to earn money for their existence and the existence of their children. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43386	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 32nd Amendment of Representatives Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43387	The government doesn't accept it for a reason because the realisation of the project is the construction of a terminal for... the Nemetin port burdens provided for by the inclusion in the operational programme for transport and financing, through the pre-accession IPA fund. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] In this way, the right to implement the project will be realised with a maximum 75% of the grants.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43388	Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43389	You'd say in Dalmatia, wait... As the grass grows. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So is the development of the port of Osijek, which we are looking for, that is, in Nemetin for which we are looking for 40 million kuna, and here we are witnessing to say spending money on shipyards, on the port of Galženica in Zadar, which has been spent 220 million euros. That's a billion and a half kuna. This is 40 million kuna. And when we look at these differences, then we really don't have anything else left to do after this kind of answer, but to say to intiate Slavonia, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43390	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 33rd Amendment of Representatives Glavas, Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43391	The government cannot accept this amendment for several reasons. First, the financing of such facilities is not from the state budget, but from the Croatian roads and Croatian highways. The second thing, Hungary does its corridor, so it is not until 2014 that it is to be put on corridor 5C. And secondly, we are in the current phase of negotiations with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, to ensure that the funds are better and more favourable for the construction of corridor 5C. And the other thing, given the importance of Corridor 5C, is that we are planning to withdraw one part of the funds from the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43392	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43393	While there was money in the state budget and while the roads were running, we were patiently waiting for us to get there, too. Just when it came to Slavonia's turn to make something, the government starts with a lot of savings, the money's gone. Although the World Bank only rated this section of the highway in Croatia as infrastructureally justified, the only highway that brings income, profits and large money is the highway from Zagreb-Lipovac. Dalmatina, I'm glad it's made, it doesn't bring money. She's here, she's probably bringing money through that tourism, if any tourists come over because road infrastructure's been solved. I would ask you not to distinguish in Croatia and from the same means that you built highways in other parts of Croatia to grab and solve again what belongs to Slavons, which is the completion of corridor 5C. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43394	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 34th Amendment of Representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43395	The government does not accept, because the dynamics of port development, inland water previously identified by the medium-term development plan, waterways and ports, the internal waters of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2016, and the funds for this purpose are provided in the position of both this and that, construction and maintenance of port buildings in the ports of internal waters totalling 19 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43396	Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43397	Obviously, it's all been built in Slavonski Brod for 25 years, and so is the port of Brod. Here is now the complete sports hall of Brod on Vis, and was Minister Pankretic there at the opening ceremony. So that hall has been built for 25 years. So will the port of Brod, which he has only sought. ... You shut up in there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Which I've been asking for 10 million kunas for, which is really a minimum amount. They're about to build, they won't... Please don't. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] If I may, Mr. President, please warn me not to turn off my microphone. So the port of the ship will not be built at this pace until 2016. ... Why are you shutting down my microphone? [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43398	So come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43399	So give them to me. Give them to me a little bit. So it's about the port of the boat, which is why they're hiding it, which they know how it is, and the port of the boat and the port of Vukovar the second port... Thank you very much. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43400	Thank you. It's true, please don't turn it off, you're not here to rule out anyone as well as to throw yourself away, "shut up there." Who is for this amendment 34. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 35. Representative Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmić and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43401	The government does not accept for the simple reason that public road law funds such projects from Croatian roads, the programme and the plan of Croatian roads is an integral part of this budget, but as a separate financial document, and therefore this document cannot go as an amendment to the National Budget Proposal, but where these projects are financed and these are Croatian roads. Therefore, when you spoke and thought about this amendment, then you should have referred it to the right address and these are Croatian roads, with the fact that I have to say that the road construction programme for the period 2009, 2012 is one of the things that is being considered about building this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43402	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43403	Thank you, this is the sixth time I have submitted this same amendment in this House, my question and explanation is always the same ministers, only changing your answers, it's different, it's the same that we've never received a kuna to realize this project. This is a bypass around the city of Osijek, which is one of the most burdened roads in the Republic of Croatia, daily according to the statistics of the Croatian roads, about 16 thousand vehicles are driven. You know how busy it is, building this 5c wall that you weren't able to finish, the pressure on this road is still increased because the vehicles that come through corridor 5c are coming down on it too. I expect the government to start implementing this project and you'll finally stop giving these answers that there's no money we're not happy with. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43404	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 36th Amendment of Representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43405	The government does not accept this amendment because you should have submitted it to the Croatian Roads' financial plan for reasons such projects are not financed from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43406	Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43407	Mr. Minister and you and I, we know very well that we have discussed this in six eyes, so you and I and Mr. Kresimir Bubalo. And if you were in front of him then, we also have a witness who promised to help with your influence on Croatian roads for the construction of the underpass in Osijek Street, which also passes 16 thousand vehicles a day, with 40 stops, so the descent of the mustache. So it's really a hot knot of traffic, insecure, the Gordian knot of the Slavon ship, and here I'm asking you now after a year of what we've been talking about, you're telling me to contact someone else. I know that the Croatian government can also replace the director of Croatian Roads and directors of Croatian highways, thus also having an impact on the finances of Croatian Roads. In fact, it is a Croatian road, it has been declared a state road, and in addition to that, if the Ministry of Finance under your leadership can pay for the rent of space to the Tax Administration 3.5 million kuna a year, and I've been looking here for two years 10 and 11. 30 plus 20 million, here for about 10, 15 years renting a tax administration on Slavonski Brod could be paid and paid off underpass in Osijek Street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43408	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 37th Amendment of Representatives Glavas, Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43409	I must say, Mr. President, that obviously the MPs did not read the Fund's financial plan for environmental protection, because they would see that the funds provided for in that financial plan are therefore not eligible for this amendment because they are again seeking funding from the State budget for what is not financed from the state budget. Therefore, what I have received is information that the funds requested are provided in the financial plan of the 2010 fund but sometimes the budget needs to be read as it is written.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43410	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43411	Mr. Minister, I don't like it when you make me up like that with our 2010-2015 plans, they're made-up 5-year-olds from the Soviet Union, where you can put a lot of stuff together, and then at the end of the fifth year, you transfer it to the next five. That's what we've been looking at for 20 years, almost 10 years just in your term. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43412	So, sir, no, it's a vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? As far as I'm concerned, it's accepted only through this technical cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43413	Therefore, the funds are provided in the financial plan of the Environmental Protection Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43414	Who's in favour of this amendment? We still have to vote. He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43415	2010. I'll grumble for you to listen then you'll see what I've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43416	The 38th Amendment of Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43417	The government does not accept, however, what I can say on behalf of the government that during 2010, the Ministry of Science and the city of Pula will find a solution for the Veli Vrh elementary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43418	Mr. Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43419	Well, I heard a similar argument in the 2009 budget vote, even then said State Secretary Mr. Janjic. The city of Pula was going through the necessary documentation, that school was being built, one part of the funding we provided in the city by credit funding, but this is about the accident that one school just burned down. And I just can't understand why there was no hearing in the 2010 budget, because I really have to thank you, the former prime minister was immediately responding from his reservation donated to the city of Pula for project documentation, and I thank you for that. However, we have truly met all our conditions, I cannot understand what these children are on the Veli Vrh, children of the city of Pula, unlike others that they could not find a item in the 2010 budget. I believe you, I believe you will try and help the city of Pula, these children, that in my neighborhood I can attend classes because today they are situated in other schools, they have unconditional conditions, they go to school this afternoon. And I say there's been a really bad accident and the school just burned out overnight, back in February 2008. Therefore, I ask the vote on this amendment, and I ask that when these things happen, they still have the same measure towards everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43420	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the need for most of it. 39th Amendment of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43421	The government does not accept for the reason that the Law on Education and Education, primary and secondary education in 2008 the responsibility for capital investment in education has been transferred to the founders, therefore to cities and counties, and otherwise for capital investment information in primary and secondary schools from the state budget will be provided to Osijek-Baranja County through support and assistance, hence decentralised funds of primary and secondary education amounting to 19 million kuna. I just need to know how to read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43422	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43423	That, Mr. Minister, isn't enough to patch up the roofs that girls at schools in Slavonia and Baranja and you know it well. This school in Osijek was built by the county from its own resources, could no longer wait for the state. That school was built for five or six years. Here, thank God it's over now, and the kids and our bride are finally going to that school. Unfortunately, there is not enough money and not enough money from your decentralised resources to build a quality school hall to meet their needs. Here's a chance for you to help achieve this project and make our youth happy and play gymnasium in a new hall that the government will finance in Osijek. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43424	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 40th amendment of the same representatives, Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43425	The Government does not accept the same reasoning as for Amendment 39. I repeat this year, 19 million kuna has been provided for this purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43426	Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43427	It is a proposal for 2 million and 250 thousand kuna for the rehabilitation of the elementary school "August Harambašić" in Donji Miholjc, attended by 582 pupils in 27 classrooms. The school is 4000 square meters and 223 square meters, while the sports hall is 2500 square meters. Rehabilitation of the complete building and sports hall is necessary for the sake of perseverance. The funds required are really necessary for improving and normal teaching in that primary school. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43428	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 41st Amendment of the same representatives, Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43429	The government does not accept for the same reason as the previous amendment. I repeat, 19 million kuna was secured this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43430	Mr. Ivan Drmic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43431	It's also the same explanation as with these amendments. It's unconditional for kids to teach. That school is attended by 248 students in 16 classrooms. I think the state is obliged to engage in the acquisition of conditions for their normal education.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43432	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 43rd amendment of the same representatives Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43433	The government does not accept with the same explanation as for the previous ones. I repeat, 19 million kuna has been secured this year in the budget for this purpose, for Osijek-Baranja County.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43434	Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43435	Mr. Ministers with 19 million kunas can't even share a Christmas card with teachers, let alone something to be made in terms of some capital investment in school facilities in this county, and this time this amendment is about building a sports hall of elementary school in Piskorevci, so at Djakova, I would almost say the suburbs of Djakova. We were looking for an amount of 2 million and 700 thousand kuna. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43436	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 44th Amendment of the same representatives Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43437	The government does not accept with the same explanation as for the previous ones. This year 19 million kuna is secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43438	Mr. Ivan Drmic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43439	We do not accept the ministers of your argument that 19 million kuna is secured because you know very well that it is not enough even for minimal recovery of school facilities. This amendment refers to a school in Valpovo attended by 756 students in 38 classes. This school has a flat roof that leaks, and at the same time the students have a problem with lack of space. Recovering that flat roof, building a attic would solve the problem of leaks that must be solved and the problem of lack of room for normal teaching would be solved. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43440	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 45th Amendment of the same representatives Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43441	The government does not accept with the same explanation as for the previous ones. I repeat for Osijek-Baranja County through assistance 19 million kuna is secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43442	Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43443	Mr. Minister, and Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is a sad series of schools and school halls in Slavonia and Baranja and a sad series that shows how our country, the Republic of Croatia, cares about Slavonia and Baranja and its school children. This time it's the primary school "Matija Gubec" Magadenovac, the Marians' District School for which we've been looking for 2 million kunas, so fate is the same as those of the previous... Well, I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43444	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 46th Amendment of the same representatives Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43445	The government doesn't accept the same explanation. I repeat, 19 million kuna is secured for support and assistance to Osijek-Baranja County.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43446	Mr. Agent Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43447	It is the elementary school "Ivana Kukuljevic" from Belišče, which is attended by 926 students in 43 classrooms. The school hasn't been invested in a long time, and the kuna school is in very bad shape. And I think that one school that today, when children are getting smaller, attends a thousand students, the government certainly needs to invest money to allow all conditions such as those of children in other parts of Croatia. They don't have any right now in Beliss. I ask you to accept this amendment to help these children in Belić do their education normally, to learn under normal conditions as well as children in other parts of Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43448	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 47th Amendment of Representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43449	The government accepts. Thus, by agreeing to the Bishop's Conference of the Government of Croatia on their proposal to reduce the position of the International Agreement and the Holy See by 18.5 million kuna and to use these funds to increase funds in individual positions for education and health. The Government therefore proposes that this amendment be adopted, with the only change not to reduce the resources of the RS Security Intelligence Agency, but to reduce the position of A539026 for that amount. International agreements of the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43450	Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43451	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This is a bit of a surprise, but positive, right? Well, we have nothing to vote on this amendment. Is that crumbs for Slavonia. But...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43452	The part where they say they won't be taken from the Security Intelligence Agency, but as she said... Then this amendment is accepted, and you are withdrawing in this section. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43453	Thank you and our church for doing this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43454	The 48th amendment also includes representatives of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43455	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools is responsible for capital investment in education, which is referred to as founders. To cities and counties. And the city of Brod has practically been provided with 12.6 million kuna through support and assistance 3.6 and through this amendment enough additional 9 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43456	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43457	So it's about building a new high school in Slavonski Brod, and I've been looking for 20 million kuna in column 4 of the amendment. The Minister's explanation is clear from the minister's position and keeping a state bag, but Slavonski Brod really needs a new gymnasium. Since it is a large high school center, there is one great interest of students to attend high school in Slavonski Brod and all three directions. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43458	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 49th Amendment of the same representative, Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43459	The government does not accept the same reasoning as for the previous amendment. I repeat that the city of Slavonski Brod was secured 3.6 million in the state budget through support and assistance next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43460	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43461	They'd say it's really about an amendment that would afford the city of Slavonski Brod and the state of Croatia something that I saw on TV like London, so the royal international garden. So the Garden Centre in Slavonski Brod at the "Matija Antun Reljković" school, not the town of Slavonski Brod, which is not about the town of Slavonski Brod financing this garden centre internationally, but about the Ministry of Education, Education. So I thought that this amendment and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because it is a project that is important not for Slavonski Brod, but for Croatia would be one amazing and well-visited object, therefore, an international garden centre in Slavonski Brod for which I sought as much as the project projections envisioned 13 million and 256 thousand and 800 kuna. Unfortunately, here is a reason that there are 3 million kunas as you say the town of Brod or something that is too little for a project like this and the construction of a garden center. We also hope for a pre-accession fund, but that's far away. I'm looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43462	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 50th Amendment of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43463	The government does not accept for the reason that the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the 2009-2010 school year will finance the interurban transport of secondary school students in accordance with the criteria laid down in Article 57. Law on the rights of defenders from the Homeland War, members of their families, and in accordance with Article 77. The social care law. Therefore, following the said right to finance the transportation of secondary school students, the virgins of the mortal, captive or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War, as well as the children users of the care rights located in foster families, and self-help users, as well as students of secondary schools. Therefore, the funds for this are provided in the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and in the Ministry of Health and Social Care. For other high school students who are users of inter-urban transport, funds should be provided by local self-government units, i.e. municipalities, cities and counties according to budget possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43464	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43465	Thank you. Mr. Minister, all that you've listed from the government's decision isn't enough. I call on you to adopt this amendment because it is the poorest part of the Republic of Croatia, which is further affected and additionally impoverished because of the current economic opportunities and your anti-recession measures. In addition to losing their jobs, those who stay to work lose their net wages, for they are taken by a hack, or a crisis tax. They're just not able to pay their kids a ride to school. For three or four years, you've been yelling that there will be reform in school, promise free education, here's a way for you to show this example that you care for these children and that you want to give them free schooling. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43466	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 51st Amendment of Representatives Glavas, Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43467	The government does not accept for reasons why responsibility for capital investment in education has been transferred to the founders of cities and counties. But I repeat, this year's state budget through support and assistance and 19 million kuna has been secured for Osijek-Baranja County.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43468	Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43469	Yeah, it's just like that, sir, who's got it, give him more, and who doesn't have it, don't give him anything. Thus, it was transferred to the financing and capital facilities of the school to cities and counties, and we are in this amendment behind the location of the restoration of the Dubrovnik High School building, so there is money for it we have sought to build a new facility in the Lower Miholjc, amounting to 8.5 million kuna. That school in Lower Miholjc is attended by 448 students in the 21st grade department. The course takes place in two facilities, so the pavilion type and in buildings that serve as workshops to conduct practical teaching. Objects are 80 years old, they don't have horizontal insulation and to say this is how folk eats moisture and eats moisture and our children. That's why we asked for this project of this money, but here's the answer, it's always the same, so I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43470	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 52nd amendment of the same representatives Glavas, Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43471	The 52nd Amendment does not accept the Government for reasons and for reasons as well as for the previous amendment, with the fact that I must say that 19 million kuna has been provided for Osijek-Baranja County through support and assistance in the 2010 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43472	Mr. Agent Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43473	Mr. Minister, 2. The school in Osijek is attended by 500 students in the former military building. That building is over 100 years old, protected by cultural well-being. You know how much it costs to rebuild and rehabilitate such objects. According to the budgets, this facility is designed to bring into a satisfying function, meaning the restoration of facades, roofs and interiors and to enable those children to work and learn in a real and normal environment requires 10 million kunas. This amendment requires you to allocate 5 million kuna from the budget and the rest would be financed by local administrations and self-government, the city of Osijek and the County of Osijek-Baranja. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43474	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 53rd Amendment of the same representatives Glavas, Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43475	The government cannot accept this amendment for the simple reason that the Osijek-Baranja County has not even filed a request that should be submitted to achieve the funding provided for in this programme, so from a programme for quality education and children with developmental difficulties. And the other thing, she didn't explain anything. So she did not apply or explain with anything that it was a priority or any other criterion managed by the Ministry of Education for the financing of such facilities. Therefore, no funds can be provided for anything for which no application has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43476	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43477	Mr. Minister, I have information that the Osijek-Baranja County has filed a request. Now, you're saying it's not without me saying the relevant persons in County of Osijek-Baranja say it is. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that this is about the recovery of the school for training and education of Vinko Beck in Osijek for blind and undersighted persons. When we discussed the disability fee here for the following and the impaired persons, we were also very insensitive, or part of the MPs was very insensitive when talking about the amount of these cash amounts. And here you are, Mr. Minister, when it comes to blind and undersighted students who attend this class and train at this school, obviously you also don't have some kind of mercy, but you should still show a little more understanding for this school that we're looking for only 2 million and 200 thousand kuna for the recovery of that school building. Well, I'd like you to make another deal and find that submission of the County of Osijek-Baranja, so if we're right to let us know and say it's going to come anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43478	Please file a request.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43479	We filed with Mr. Minister. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43480	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 54th Amendment of Representatives Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43481	The government does not accept because according to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and Secondary Capital Investment Schools, local self-government units are responsible and 19 million kuna is secured through support and assistance to Osijek-Baranja County in the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43482	Mr. Representative Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43483	It's two schools in the city of Djakov. I know that there are not many such cases in the Republic of Croatia, that two large secondary schools attending a thousand and 500 students in the same building that is less than 4,000 square meters. It works every day on two shifts, even on Saturdays, classes start at 7 a.m. and ends at 8 p.m. These children do not have normal conditions for education and should be in normal countries of great concern to the government. Unfortunately, our government doesn't care, the minister doesn't even listen to what he's told. He's talking about swine flu obviously with Minister Milinovic. I would ask you to drink Tamiflu and approve this money to expand the school building in Djakova.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43484	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 55th Amendment of the same representatives Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43485	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment with the same explanation as the previous one, with a little bit of support for how much it has been invested in some projects concerning the Osijek-Baranja County. Well, among other things, we all forget 200 million kunas for the school gym in Osijek. Also, to build a new elementary school in Chepin, we're just waiting for documentation from the county to begin. And they are also preparing projects for primary school in Višnjevac. So you see that these are still significant means, when it's being summed up that they are far greater than what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43486	Mr. Representative Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43487	We obviously have a lot of kids in Slavonia, so we need a lot of schools. Namely, this is about an amendment asking for 3 million kuna to build the sub-basement of Engineering and Engineering Osijek and Electrotechnical and Transport Schools in Osijek. These schools are attended by a total of 253 students in 48 classrooms and teaching is held in the same building. Every school, so three schools each on their shift. So, this is another school, and it's a high school that works in three shifts like that school in Podvinj in Slavonski Brod, probably the only elementary school in Croatia where children go on three shifts to school. So that's why these 3 million kunas you said had invested in Chepin, but we're looking at the position after which we're looking for this 3 million kuna that's building up or resuscitating the Dubrovnik High School building where you've been broad-handed, then this is really the minimum amount we're looking for, so please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43488	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 56th Amendment of Representatives Glavas, Drmic and Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43489	The government does not accept the same reasoning as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43490	Mr. Agent Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43491	This amendment is about a home for older and powerless people in the City of Djakov. The home has too little capacity in view of the needs of the City of Đakov, waiting lists are for several years, and unfortunately many unsuspected users, proteges do not welcome the order in this home. If you were to allocate funds to upgrade this home, you would also solve the space of the center for social care in the City of Đakov where you are currently paying rent for their work spaces. This would avoid it and save more money in the state budget. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43492	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 57th Amendment of Representatives Glavas, Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43493	The government does not accept the same reasoning as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43494	Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43495	So we were looking for a new first-school facility in Osijek of 8 and a half million kuna. High school, let me say, are our students, all over Croatia, all of high school, and most of the students are just being recruited from high school students. However, the first high school in Osijek, which has 697 students in 25 classes and classrooms, is really taking place in a non-functional building consisting of classrooms and hallways, with no room needed for modern teaching and students' stay. In order for the school to further develop specialized teaching, it is necessary to build a completely new facility in Osijek, the new first high school facility in Osijek. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43496	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 58th Amendment of Representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43497	The government does not accept for the reason that capital investment in education has therefore been transferred to founders. cities, counties, and through support and assistance for the Brod-Posavina County last year is secured 8.9 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43498	Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43499	In the County of Brod-Posavina, a network of schools was considered, so a network of secondary schools. Namely, on the coupling of two counties, Vukovar-Srijemska and Brodo-Posavia, which are 50 kilometers away from Slavonski Brod and more than 50 kilometers from Vinkovac, there is a need for the establishment of a secondary school in the area of the Slavonski Šamac Municipality, which is the farthest distance in the insurance of land and project documentation and the will to build such a building in Slavonski Šamac. With this amendment, I asked for 2 million kunas to produce complete documentation for the Slavonski Šamac secondary centre, but here again it is said that this should be the county that is the poorest, which is the worst fiscal capacity in the Republic of Croatia. Well, let's throw everything in the county and then we'll pass as Slavonia goes on, and especially here's a place that bears our Slavonic name like Slavonic slap. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43500	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 59th Amendment of the same representative, Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43501	The government doesn't accept this amendment, now I don't know if this will be an adequate word to say, if it isn't an apology in advance, for the simple reason it's a failure. Because the high school in Slavonski Brod is scheduled to be financed from the state budget, from the World Bank loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43502	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43503	I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Minister. It's predicted, when is it scheduled? Can we know that, in Slavonic ship? Nobody knows that. Thank you very much. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43504	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 60th Amendment of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43505	It is not accepted because the resources for the preparation of the project documentation for all infrastructure projects to be financed from the Structural Funds in the field of science, research and technology transfer are provided in the amount of 3 million kuna in the budget item, the preparation of projects to be financed from EU funds and all potential users will be able to apply to those funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43506	Mr. Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43507	In Osijek, BIOS has been functioning for some time. In our local area, it records one great result, helps young entrepreneurs and they also received great assistance from the City of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County and support. It has joined in part and the European Union through its funds. The only person who doesn't find it interesting and who didn't get involved is the Croatian government. You have a chance to fix it and invest some taxpayers' money, Croatian citizens from the state budget to help young entrepreneurs who are moving into business. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43508	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 60th Amendment of Representatives Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43509	The government therefore does not accept because the funds are applied in the preparation of EU funding projects and all potential beneficiaries will be able to apply those funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43510	Mr. Drmic. We've explained this, haven't we? ... This is 60, that's explained. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who is for this amendment please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 61st Amendment of Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43511	The government accepts part of it. Therefore, by agreement of the Bishop's Conference and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reduce the position of the International Council of Chairs-RH Agreement, that these funds be used for projects in science and health. So, the government proposes to accept here an increase in actually 5 million kuna funds for this project, and 4 and a half million kuna will be in amendment 60 and a half for emergency assistance to the General Hospital in Pula. Therefore, the amendment is also partly accepted as regards the amount and we propose to reduce from another position the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43512	I would first of all like to thank you on behalf of the students of the University of "Jurja Dobrile" in Pula, the youngest university in the Republic of Croatia. I'm glad you recognized the needs of building a student campus and I also thank the Holy See who accepted to give up part of the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43513	So you're pulling in on this difference? So this amendment has been withdrawn in this difference between five and eight million. The government's argument is accepted. ... But for the record, the minister will quote it as it should be. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43514	Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts an increase in the capital project of 5 million kuna and proposes to reduce expenditures in the Ministry of Finance, activity, number and so on instead of reductions in the Ministry of Defence by the same amount. The international agreement of the Holy See-Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43515	So it's accepted in the text as explained by the minister? Thank you. The 62nd Amendment of Representative Zlatko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43516	It is not accepted for the reason that the capital investment funds are a component of each individual university and are determined by the Senate of the University. We also stress that we have allocated more than 3 billion kuna for capital investments in higher education since 2004. Therefore, it is within the jurisdiction of the Senate of the University.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43517	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43518	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the reason is very simple to submit this amendment. Today, there are 4 and a half thousand students in Varazdin who have relatively well-solved accommodation through private accommodation or through a dormitory where the Ministry of Education has helped, for which I thank. But the diet is completely inadequately solved. In several places in the city, some restaurants are also adapted and closed in the meantime, and the issue of the student restaurant is extremely important. As a result, we proposed that the initial funding be given for preparatory work so that it could then be accessed in 2011. However, I ask that the amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43519	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 63rd Amendment of Representatives Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43520	The government does not accept for free textbooks the most endangered social categories of the Ministry of Defence, family and intergenerational solidarity, the Ministry of Health and Social Care are planning to buy textbooks in those categories. This year, textbooks for 42500 primary and secondary school students are provided. Also, the proposal for a new Law on textbooks proposes a solution that will take at least 4 years to enable the textbooks to inherit them, and the law also proposes a procedure to apply two of the cheapest textbooks in schools from those chosen by teachers or teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43521	Mr. Representative Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43522	School policy or according to HDSSB school does not agree at all with the policy of the ruling in this area. In fact, no one forbids us to have or give children free textbooks, so if we bring them down to those forms that Minister Shuker spoke of, these are permanent textbooks. Come on, in some ways permanent, four years. Therefore, it is even easier and easier to be free of charge if we have one or two publishers who choose to compete. In fact, we believe that instead of a million and 50,000, excuse me million and 50,000 kunas to co-finance the textbooks to replace it with 290 million kuna. This would ensure textbooks for primary and secondary school students, therefore financed from the state budget, that textbooks are obtained through the procurement process and we also propose uniformity in the policy of publishing and approving textbooks. I think we are all witnesses where all our money and taxpayers' money go away, how it is spent, how it is seen that private workers pay for the construction of tunnels, the coloring of tunnels and other affairs that occur from Croatian highways and beyond. So he's got money. If used correctly, and used correctly if used on our children, on our schoolboys. Unfortunately, I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43523	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would like to thank Deputy Prime Minister Schucker and now I would like the vice-president and the health minister of Mr Dad Milinovic to make a statement on the amendments. First, the 64th amendment of Mr. Glavas, Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43524	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, in fact, this amendment cannot be accepted until the final decision of the birth status in Djakova, since the Ministry of Health has carried out surveillance and closed the birthplace in Djakov because it does not meet even the minimum standards, especially the staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43525	Mr. Agent Ivan Drmić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43526	I agree, Mr. Minister, with you, that birthplace is the easiest place to close. However, I disagree that this is the best solution. You are, the Croatian Parliament has chosen you as Minister of Health and you are obliged to find, not the best solution for the ministry and for the state budget, but the best solution for the citizens of the city of Djakova and Djakovština. I am aware that this maternity home has no working conditions, that the lives of newborn children and pregnant women are in danger if they approach the birth there. But I am also aware that the state, or ministry, is obliged to provide funds to create conditions for children to still be born there. I come from Djakova and I was born in that maternity home. It has a tradition of over 50 years and certainly most people in the city of Djakov and Djakovina do not want this birthplace closed. Some parts of the school's birthplace, except for the student's if they're closed, have over 80 km. You as a doctor know how far it is when a woman has complications, when it is necessary to approach the birth to drive almost a hundred miles to the nearest birthplace. These days, you will also receive a petition from the ministry, where more than 2,000 Djakovchan were signed in two or three days. If it had been a long time to collect, I believe any Djakovchan would have signed that petition. I ask you once again to receive this petition, to consider their request and to provide a minimum of 15 million kuna to organise that birthplace, in order to supplement all the necessary elements so that it may continue to work. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43527	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 65th Amendment of Representative Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43528	The amendment is accepted only by funds not provided from the defence ministry's level, but from the finance ministry level.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43529	I thank you for recognising the need to equip General Pula's emergency services, and here's the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43530	So in this part is the difference between where the funds are, and otherwise the amendment is accepted. Thank you very much. 66th MPs also Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43531	Well, I have to decline this amendment, but I think after the argument that we could withdraw it, because these days, we recently made an annex contract and secured additional funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43532	If that's the case, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43533	This amendment has been withdrawn. 67th Amendment of Representatives Branimir Glavas, Ivan Drmic and Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43534	The amendment is not accepted, with the reason that in fact the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases is determined by the jurisdiction of local self-government in the insurance of funds. But since this is a common public-known problem, the ministry is committed to providing an internal redistribution over the year for a million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43535	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Drmić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43536	Nice to meet you, Mr. Secretary... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43537	So we don't change the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43538	From past ministers, at least you show minimal wishes to help. That money will certainly come in handy, even though the needs are far greater than what I have said in my amendment. I'm still asking for a vote, and I'm holding you in my word that the state will be involved with at least some of the funds in this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43539	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 68th Amendment, the same representatives, Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43540	The amendment is not accepted, because during 2010, public procurement will be carried out, and 2 million kuna, 3 million kuna 2011 and 3 million kuna 2012 is secured, which is sufficient for this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43542	Mr. Minister, it's about how you know about the home for mentally ill adults in Osijek. The difference in attitudes is 2 and 2 and a half million kunas, so 500 grand here we split up somehow. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43543	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He's not accepted. There's not enough votes. 69th also Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43544	The amendment is not accepted because the social care network is the activity of social care is not intended for the need for new capacities, i.e. existing capacities meet the needs of the Social Care Centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43545	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43546	This is about a facility for the accommodation of old and powerless people in the town of Nasice. Ours is one of the few cities that has not been regulated, which has no facility to open such an institution, although the interest in accommodation in such facilities is very large. As far as I can tell, over 100 people have been recorded waiting to settle in one of the existing homes in the surrounding cities. I think the government should certainly get involved because neither the town of Nashica nor the Osijek-Baranja County has enough money to include and to finance such a big project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43547	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 70th amendment also includes representatives Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43548	The amendment is not accepted, but I hope, on the grounds that you will withdraw, because by changing the criteria for a decision on minimum financial standards for decentralised financing of homes for older and powerless, we have provided these funds. So through decentralised functions, we've secured these assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43549	Mr. Representative Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43550	Mr Shuker has already said on several occasions that 19 million kuna has been secured, but with all these problems that exist in Slavonia and Baranja, it means a series of projects that are on hold, only this project of economic and administrative school in Osijek costs 17 million kuna. That's what I'm asking for with this amendment. Then you can think of what enough of these 19 million kunas are to be obtained from decentralised funds. This is a school attended by nearly 900 students, teaching takes place in two facilities. It is located in the old center of Osijek, in Osijek's fortress, and reconstruction, the rehabilitation of such spaces and buildings is very expensive because they are culturally good. I would ask you, given that the building is over 100 years old and is in a derivative state, and it's very difficult for young people to go to that school because they don't have minimum hygiene conditions to stay there all day. The state can be involved with these 17 million kunas and help to improve the situation in school in Slavonia in this way. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43551	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 71st Amendment of Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43552	The amendment is not accepted, as there is sufficient capacity for the needs of the welfare centre and the need for new capacities is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43553	Mr. Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43554	Well, it's certainly about the need, because I guarantee that there are over 900 elderly and powerless people in the city of Pula today who don't have a simple possibility of accommodation in any facility. Therefore, the city and the county have become involved in the design and we have also requested co-financing from the government because we believe that this is a major problem for the population in the city of Pula, but also beyond. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43555	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the last amendment, the 72nd Mr. Glavas, Drmic and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43556	The amendment is not accepted because it is necessary to amend the technical documentation which is inadequate, i.e. does not comply with the ongoing social care reform, which provides for the development of a spectrum of services outside the institutional care for users. And enough money is enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43557	Mr. Representative Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43558	... It is the means to build a centre exactly as you said it does not exist in the network, etc., but it is now necessary to build a Rehabilitation Centre for persons distracted in psychophysical development in Osijek, given that there is no institution in Eastern Slavonia for the accommodation of persons disturbed in psychophysical development. [[Specially enabled.]] It is therefore necessary to build this facility, which would provide for about 100 people in the entire day, half-day or temporary accommodation, which is why we were also asking for the amount of 3 million and 50 thousand kuna, but here is the ministry, so first it should be networked or so. As long as it lasts here's the minister, if you can at least say and when we can expect it, it would be nice to. Although it's not a debate and replica, but I'd like to ask you for an answer. Because it's the last question. And I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43559	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I thank the vice president and the minister. I thank all those who participated and listened carefully. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we move to a vote on the State Budget Proposal. Let's please get involved and vote on the State Budget Proposal. I therefore propose the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012. Let's get involved and vote. The result? The state budget was accepted by most votes, 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 33 against, together with the amendments accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law, we are now going to vote on decisions to give consent to the financial plans of extra budget users for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012. First, I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The decision was made by a majority of votes, 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 31 against. Secondly, I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This decision was adopted by a majority of 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 28 against. Third, I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the financial plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. And this decision was made by a majority vote of 80 votes for, 2 abstentions and 31 against. Fourthly, I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. And this decision was made by a majority vote of 80 for, one abstention and 33 against. Fifthly, I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the 2010 Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund's financial plan and projections for 2011 and 2012. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. And this decision was made by a majority vote of 83 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 32 against. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament a conclusion which reads: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, a revision of the text of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and 2012 and of the projections for 2011 and 2012 and before their publication in the National Journal, I am voting on this proposal for a conclusion. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This conclusion was accepted by the majority of 92 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 16 against. SDP, IDS and HNS representatives' clubs proposed three conclusions to the Croatian Assembly. First, the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 with accompanying documents is not accepted. Secondly, it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and decision on temporary financing for 2010. Thirdly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with making and proposing within 60 days the Croatian Assembly of Amendments and additions to the laws governing the tax and social system and reforming the state administration, health system and agriculture. It is essential to vote on the first two conclusions, as we have recently adopted the State budget for 2010 and the projection for 2011 and 2012. I ask the Government's representative to be made aware of the third proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43560	The government does not accept this conclusion for the simple reason why we are constantly working to solve all these problems. The second thing, this is such a complex problem that without solid analytical bases within 60 days you can only make bigger mistakes than benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43561	So we vote on this third conclusion that the government does not accept. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. I find that the proposal didn't get the necessary majority, got 42 for, 2 abstentions and 77 against. The Committee on Tourism, he proposed that the Croatian Parliament not bring the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and the projections for 2011 and 2012 and on this proposal the conclusion is unconditionally voted since we have recently adopted the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and the projection for 2011 and 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43562	We are now going to discuss - Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010, second reading, P.Z. No. 475 Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate conducted mainly by all committees. You received the reports at the session. The Minister of Finance, the applicant's representative, does not intend to explain the additional proposal. Do any of the rapporteurs want a word? He doesn't want to. No one signed up for a hearing, so I'm closing that agenda item. I'm closing the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final draft of the Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-26-0.u43563	We thank and move on to the second point The final draft law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 would be the second reading of P.Z. Number 475. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. Please, let's get involved and vote. Work, keep pushing the button. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 84 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention, and 38 votes against. The Tourism Committee, he proposed to the Croatian Parliament not to pass the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia since 2010. This proposal concludes that we have recently passed the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. Thank you very much, we've concluded this part, first and second. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're going back to work. Today we will discuss the final draft labour law, and the gallery is represented by the central unions who will follow this debate. So we move on to - Final draft labour law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 461. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by MP Dragutin Lesar, representative Nenad Stazic, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mr. Djuro Popioč. Here you go.
