ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33578	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Is it a good morning first? Therefore, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Electronic Money Institutions is proposed to postpone the time limit for the coordination of electronic money institutions with the provisions of the Law on Electronic Money Institutions from 30 June 2009 to 31 December 2010. Let me just give you a little reason for that. Therefore, the Law on Electronic Money Institutions was adopted in 2008 which fulfilled Croatia's obligation to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union in the part relating to the business of electronic money institutions. The relevant provisions of the law of the electronic money institution are defined as credit institutions and are obliged to comply and obtain authorisation for the work of the Croatian National Bank, to provide for a prescribed amount of guarantee capital, to comply with the rules on risk management, high exposure, internal control system and other provisions of the law. In the meantime, the European Commission has proposed to amend Directive 46 of 2000 on the launch, execution and prudential supervision of electronic money institutions in such a way that these institutions will no longer be defined as credit institutions, but as payment services institutions. Following the above, the authorisation for the work to be obtained by electronic money institutions under the applicable law within the prescribed time limit for harmonisation, so once again until 30 June 2009, it will be necessary to reconciling, in accordance with these amendments to the said Directive of the European Union, which the Republic of Croatia will, in any case, be obliged to implement in its own legislation. This amendment to the current law is proposed to avoid high compliance costs for existing electronic money institutions in view of the certainty of these amendments and the addition of the law due to further harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. And finally for the opening statement, just to say the amendment that I have, so the Committee on Law to the Government is acceptable. He accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33579	Thank you very much. I'd like to start by saying that today we're predicting 14 points of the agenda to finish, a purified agenda. At least finalise with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Statistics, which is under point 14. We'll work while we need it. Now this refined text is going to be shared, because I don't know how else to master this kind of agenda. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Let it be shared. [[/Intruder: You will not get cleaned up now. You're about to be divided.]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33580	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. To begin with, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Electronic Money Institutions. We believe that because of the trend of accelerated technological information development, because of the increasing use of the Internet in communication and the daily business of economic operators, as well as citizens are bound to provide formal and institutional assumptions for the useful use of new technological opportunities. As new technologies are developed and legal regulations need to be monitored and adapted to new ways of doing business and must not become brakes and obstacles to accelerated development. It is precisely the Law on electronic money institutions and its proposed amendments that ensure conditions for the introduction and application of new modern, faster and cheaper methods of business, and the payment of electronic money is certainly one of these. The Law on Electronic Money Institutions adopted by the Croatian Parliament in September of last year is in line with the European Parliament and Council Directives of Europe. The law defines electronic money institutions as a specific form of credit institutions that are not depositary and whose primary activity is the issue of electronic money. Article 80 of that Law also stipulates that institutions must comply with the provisions of the law by 30 June 2009. So, by the end of this month. The coordination procedures are demanding, in certain segments specific, and ultimately require the engagement of precisely prescribed underlying capital, which must amount to at least 8 million kuna. The proposed law amending the Law on electronic money institutions, so the one we have before us, so the title of the law itself says that it is a single amendment to the law, and it refers to an extension of the time limit until the electronic money institutions have to comply, so their business with this law. This deadline is now on 31 December 2010 in the Croatian Democratic Community club that is reasonable and justifiable. The new regulations of the European Commission, or the European Union in the future, will not be considered as credit institutions, but as payment institutions and therefore propose to move the deadline of harmonisation so that we can implement this change through our legislation, while not burdening these institutions with unnecessary harmonisation. If it is also taken into account that the conditions under which these electronic money institutions will be granted an authorisation to work on the amendments to Directive 46 of 2000, that is to say that they will be significantly lighter compared to the conditions prescribed by the applicable law, then this proposal for a law should indeed be unreservedly supported. And that is why the Croatian Democratic Community's MPs club fully supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33581	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33582	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. So when electronic money was introduced in Japan in the second half of the 1980s, it was first about prepaid cards paid for by telecommunications railway services. Soon thereafter, however, a development took place in two different directions. We will see a different direction in Europe and a different direction in some developed Asian countries. At first, non-banking institutions were engaged in the issue of electronic money, mostly on the internet or... The United States didn't know what to do with that form of payment, either, was to wait, but by forming the European Community, the European monetary reaction had already happened in '94. the years when the Monetary Institute introduced and recommended that electronic money should only be allowed to be issued to banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No. '98. The European Commission is introducing the concept of the institution precisely because it has seen the possibility of speeding up the economy. Only in 2002 are the official guidelines of the European Commission which aim to come, which are aimed at fostering the development of non-banking institutions in the sector, all with one goal, thus speeding up the economy and in that part. But according to their successes, some data are speaking. In the eurozone, software electronic money achieved traffic at 10m euros last year. So it's very, so when you look at software electronic money, it means not hardware about very little traffic. On the other hand, one example of the express use of electronic money is Hong Kong and Octopus card. In Hong Kong, 95% of 16-65-year-old citizens use the Octopus card. It pays for it in the railways, in shops, in restaurants, it pays for the services. There are 17 million Octopus cards in Hong Kong, 2 times the population, 10 million transactions a day and 3.7 billion, you heard, dollars a day. Similarly, Singapore has done with the introduction of the FeliCa card and these are two examples that speak enough about Europe definitely not being the leader, or Europe is not ahead of it. When a looser regulation is taken, which is precisely due to the need for electronic money institutions to introduce European countries, then one historical fact, or one historical fact, can be monitored. Pioneers in the issue of electronic money, companies, DigiCash, CyberCash and First Virtual by 2001 disappeared from the European Union scene, the provider of electronic money services, and the most encouraged innovation. So that looser regulation is something that's reality. I do not even know how to regulate this issue myself yet, and therefore it is not surprising that these amendments in this section will no longer be made to electronic money institutions, so also after the new and after the amendments to Directive 46, they will not be in the system of credit institutions. And that is another proof of how to work in Croatia, or not to work. We passed 121 laws here last year. And that's good from the point of view of Croatia's approach to the European Union. But when we look at today's package of 3 laws that we need to postpone right from the domain of financial services, the Capital Market Act, the Credit Institutions Act and this law, then there's no wonder of a delay. The EU will not escape us, but it could escape the chance for Croatia to enter, as it has already fled. It is not enough just to prepare the laws, and that is what I want to stress, but it is much more important to prepare the state, and I fear that with the law being prepared, we will miss the chance to enter the strong and strong, we will enter the European Union weak and vulnerable because all economic indicators relevant in Croatia say such things. And it may not be too much to stress in this debate that it is sufficient that we sent 25 anti-recession proposals a year ago, none of which have been accepted, some have not even been debated, and that half a year has been pending with government anti-recession measures of which no serious anti-recession measures have yet been discussed in this House. Two have come, one is rebalancing, but the rebalancing is not an anti-recession measure, it is an emergency and the other is the Construction Act which is de facto encouraging state institutions to do their job. It's been waiting half a year, there's no time, and so it's no wonder there's a delay in this part. What is the characteristic of electronic electronic money institutions in our country is precisely on the trail of this flexible and economics and the European directive is that the maximum amount is 1000 kuna, 8 million kunas of core capital and the regulation of the CNB, which I believe will change, given that this change of the directive will also go towards electronic electronic money institutions no longer being under credit institutions, so we can expect a change of regulators, but perhaps better representatives of the ministry should tell us. Although the European Union has treated it as the same character as receiving deposits in a manner that treats electronic money, it has considered it justified at least so far to ensure that many institutions, i.e. to ensure regulation by those who regulate credit institutions. One such law the SDP will support, because we do not think it makes sense to change and supplement the law twice, but something that we have already warned about nine months ago when the financial part of the law was discussed here in the Assembly is that we are entering the law process too quickly, that we are entering the process unprepared, that it is not only important to prepare the law, but it is much more important to prepare the state and we remain ready today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33583	Thank you. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to - Final draft law supplementing the Law on compulsory insurance in transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 347 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33585	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. These amendments therefore propose to suspend the validity of the provision in Article 10(2) and (3) of the applicable law which obliges the insurance company to obtain the prior consent of the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency to the insurance premiums. This provision was incorporated into the law because, at the time of its adoption, it became not a proportion in the amount of bonuses per traffic insurance policy, and it was necessary to establish control of the supervisory authority at the insurance premium prices. On the other hand, Council Directive europe, therefore, from '92. the year No 49 on the harmonisation of the laws of the regulations and administrative provisions relating to direct non-life insurance provides that Member States may not adopt provisions requiring prior consent or systematic reporting in general and special conditions of insurance, premium rates, forms and other printed materials which the company intends to use in business with policy holders. Following this, these amendments are therefore proposed to amend the applicable law in such a way that these provisions of the law cease to apply, but since the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33586	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33587	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. As we have already heard from the opening presentation before us, the final proposal for a law on the completion of the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act, which provides for only one small amendment. In order to remove from Article 10(2) and (3) which prescribed that insurance companies for receiving insurance premiums must receive prior consent from HANFA. At the time that provision was included and prescribed, it was logical. There was indeed a disproportionateity in the insurance premium bonuses. However, as Council Directive 92/49 on the harmonisation of legislation with the Member States of the European Union provides that none of the insurance, insurance, insurance, rate, form and reporting premiums that the company intends to conclude in business with the policy owners are to be supervised. It was logical to comply with this law and to amend it only by adding, in Article 71(2), paragraph 3 which reads that provision, i.e. paragraphs 2 and 3 of the existing law, to be deleted from Article 10. It is therefore logical that the HDZ club supports this amendment and will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33588	Thank you. We move to an individual debate, the first female representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. He's giving up. Mr. Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33589	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law supplementing the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act adopted in 2005. In early 2009, it was amended and updated as part of the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. It should also be said that the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act, together with the Insurance Act, was also adopted in 2005 as a legal framework in which insurance companies in the Republic of Croatia operate today. This law, such as its name, regulates compulsory transport insurance that involves insurance for public transport passengers from the consequences of an accident, and insurance of the owner, i.e. the user of the traffic means of liability for the damage done to third parties. Of course this law regulates all forms of transportation. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The specificities mentioned above are best reflected in the fact that car liability insurance is part of an international insurance system, which is why national laws of certain countries are obliged to establish certain legal standards as a prerequisite for the participation of the State in the international insurance system. Therefore, the basic purpose of compulsory transport insurance is contained in the protection of certain persons, i.e. transport victims, against the possible occurrence of the damage caused to them without their guilt, and in the protection of the financial and social situation of insurance undertakings as responsible for the damage. Of course, this law sets out a number of other details and details that I will not talk about on this occasion. I will mention only some institutes such as the authorised representative, the information centre, the guarantee fund, the compensation office that is located within the Croatian Insurance Office, but I will still have to say more about the supervisory body institute. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on compulsory insurance in transport establishes the obligation for companies to report to the supervisory authority or the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency on the conditions of insurance and technical basis used in the calculation of insurance premiums within 60 days prior to their application. Furthermore, paragraphs 2 and 3 of that Article is prescribed if the supervisory authority determines that the conditions of insurance and technical bases do not comply with the legal provisions, actuarial principles and rules of the profession will adopt measures which will require the insurance company to comply with the applicable rules. In those cases, in which case, the insurance company may not apply the insurance and price conditions, the insurance premiums for which that measure has been adopted. However, it should also be said that this restrictive measure is laid down, therefore, in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 10. The law on compulsory transport insurance does not comply with the provisions of the relevant European Union Directives, given the fact that several amendments have been made since the law was passed. These amendments are regulated, inter alia, that Member States will not require prior authorisation on the prices but only the obligation of insurance companies to deliver pricers to the supervisory authority and insurance conditions exclusively for the purpose of verifying compliance with legal regulations, actuarial principles and rules of the profession. Following these facts, the proposal for a law supplementing the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act complements the provisions of the applicable law in a way that the contested provisions of Articles 10(2) and 3. will cease to apply on the date of entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, it should be pointed out that this supplement fully complies with the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport with the legal property of the European Union in the field of insurance and thus meets one of the criteria for closing Chapter 9. – Financial services, which are therefore the main reasons why I will personally support the adoption of these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33590	Thank you. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport. It's an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. number 347. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal for a law supplementing the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law has been passed by most votes. 103 votes for, 4 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33593	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, the reasons for this proposal for a law amending the Law on Credit Institutions. Therefore, these amendments are proposed to postpone the period of harmonisation of credit institutions with the provisions of the applicable law from 30 June 2009 on 30 March 2010. On 6 May 2009, Directive 48 of the 2006 Directive was amended and amended in the European Parliament and the basic amendment to the Directive in part of the major risk management exposures and cooperation among the supervisors of the countries. Any harmonisation that credit institutions would make on the basis of a applicable law within the time limit set for their harmonisation will need to be restored to amendments which, in accordance with the amendments to the European Directive, will also be amended by the applicable law. The conditions under which credit institutions operate will be amended in relation to a solution under the applicable law and the harmonisation of credit institutions under the applicable law would create obligations for restructuring and larger investments which, under the envisaged amendments to the applicable law, will no longer be subject to the amended Directive. And finally, let me just say, this amendment that we have, or two amendments from the Legislative Committee, are acceptable and the government accepts them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33594	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. The first is the HDZ club, the respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33595	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. According to the applicable Credit Institutions Act, credit institutions were required to coordinate their business with the existing law no later than 31 March 2010. As changes to the European Union Directive, which require amendments to the Credit Institutions Act have occurred on 9 May of this year, especially in the case of high exposure to risk management and cooperation among the supervisors of the States, it is necessary and further to amend the existing Credit Institutions Act, and because of these amendments to the existing law, it was also necessary to change the time limit of harmonisation so that it is proposed to bring the deadline in line with 31 March 2010. These amendments will certainly help to avoid high compliance costs of existing credit institutions with the provisions of the applicable Credit Institutions Act, given the certainty of further compliance with the acquis of the European Union. The HDZ Club supports such an amendment to the Credit Institutions Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33596	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33597	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In September of last year, we supported the Credit Institutions Act as a new law that regulates this area, as a law on the trail of compliance with the acquis, as a law that has been largely but also a law which has been high-qualityly prepared by the Croatian National Bank and as a law that introduced many newspapers and increased security and confidence in the security and stability of the banking sector, with particular emphasis on risk management and risk management, at a higher rate of capital adequacy, which is shown to be extremely important in times of non-trust in financial institutions, as a provision on the permitted exchange of data of poor debtors, as a provision of supervisory and additional supervision, as the introduction of CNB commissioners and as changes in definitions of criminal and criminal sanctions. I have already said in the introduction that this law is well prepared because the Croatian National Bank itself took part in this work and gave basic guidelines on how this law should look. But what I said then and I will repeat now is that monetary policy cannot, especially in the situation in which we are in which we find ourselves, no matter how many relevant institutions praise both the governor and the Croatian National Bank themselves cannot solve the problems of economic policy, monetary policy cannot solve the problems of fiscal policy, monetary policy cannot solve the problems of increasingly difficult Croatian exporters and monetary policy cannot solve absolutely all problems in this country. Most of these problems must be addressed by responsible government of the state, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself. The exceptional importance of the Credit Institutions Act is reflected in a few data. Yesterday, we had the Consumer Credit Act, and when we are at his place, the following information should be made known. In Croatia, the share of housing loans is 45%, in the European Union, in more developed European Union countries that share is at 80%, so 15-20% of all other loans are consumer loans. We had that 55% share. So 3 times more Croatian citizens are in charge of spending, in charge of naked existence, in charge of life than their neighbours in the European Union. And that's what's inadmissible and that's why it's also an emphasis on the Credit Institutions Act. At a time of turbulence on the European and financial scene and the European Union, its own bodies, services, committees, committees, all relevant factors involved know that a quality proposal can only be prepared with certain changes, innovations and a step in the problem, and not behind the problem, means by intercepting the problem itself. Thus, Directive 2006, meaning 2648, has been amended and complemented in terms of the establishment and operation of credit institutions and the fundamental difference in the part of large exposures, risk management, cooperation between supervisors of Member States is considered to be of particular importance in the part of the electronic money institutions that will no longer be the type of credit institutions due to credit risk. It's about living tissue, it's about sensitive tissue that depends on the overall European economy, but also on the Croatian economy. Therefore, it will be necessary to reconciling that law and, therefore, no wonder of a delay in the deadline. But in September we also underlined two things and we were right. For the first time, we were right when we said that this law would be changed. Because there's no reason for certain provisions to come into force. 1. In 2009, some came into force. Six. 2009 means with a time-out of 6 months now precisely those provisions that have come with this time-out are experiencing changes. So we were right when we said that this law would probably be changed as well. However, we were right, and when we said that this cost of additional regulation that we welcome will unfortunately go to the expense of end-users, unfortunately, go to an increase in interest rates, and unfortunately go to the cost of the Croatian economy. And that's what's key and that's what matters. At that time, government representatives said two things and one sounded like this: there is no reason to increase interest due to operating costs as well as the possibility of a supervisory fee. Therefore, there is no reason for credit institutions to increase exactly the cost, i.e. to increase the cost of the operational interest margin due to these costs because they will certainly not do so. However, already in the draft of this law, the next sentence is already in the draft of this law. Nor does it matter that this harmonisation would require higher costs for credit institutions, and thus at this time global financial security would further burden the economy. Well, gentlemen, you have to decide, did you then say that there will be no cost to the economy and now you say that it will be and that's what we lack here, consistency, can't be interpreted and used for certain daily reasons that would say political needs, or when it suits us, then we use it, when it doesn't suit us then we don't use it. It is, it stands in the bill of this law, meaning that you have recognized what we are then, what we have then warned that these operational costs will additionally burden you, go to the expense of end-users, citizens, Croatian economies and that is what is the fact, which is the fact. What is also a problem as a third reason when we were right about increasing costs for end-users, for citizens and for the economy is the fact that, according to this proposal, the bank will continue to carry out old and new reporting and another 9 months, which will, of course, cause additional costs. And it is certain that the regulation itself will also be regulated, so probably this is not the first change of regulation, even further, so it will have to change the law again. Therefore, this is the same contribution to increase costs of the new regulation and to increase interest. Interests for citizens are increasing, interest for the economy is increasing. At a time when the insolvency of the state, or economic operators within Croatia, is greater than 16 billion at a time when companies, Croatian companies, to pay salaries, contribute, all what the state requires them to borrow in the short term, it is extremely important what the interest rates are. And I will warn you that in just last year the Croatian banks won a record profit, it will probably not be so recordable this year, but the fact is that there is no need or room for raising interest rates for citizens and the economy. And that's why we've been in the process, and we've made a proposal to limit the interest rate, and I hope you'll support that proposal as well. And that is why, today and at the press conference, we have made the obligation to settle all accounts by the state and the state-related public enterprises within a record time limit, just to free the economy from unnecessary pressure of indifference which is growing and greater. Because banks themselves must share the fate of the Croatian economy because they still have higher interest margins here than in their countries to their mothers because they still return to share capital more here than in their countries to their mothers. But that's why the government has to do something and accept our proposal to limit that story, that is to say, that the state becomes the first payer to be the one who will not be a problem in the process of indifference, but rather the solution to the problem. And I'd like you to accept all of our suggestions that we've sent. I do not raise that optimism since you are 25 of our anti-recession proposals which did not come into debate, which refused, but Croatia definitely does not have time to wait anymore, because half of the year has passed since the first negative signals. The proposal was only here so-called. Two anti-recession measures, I have to get back to that, I think it's important. It's a rebalance of a budget that we can't consider a measure, it's necessary and the Construction Act which is actually an opportunity for the state administration to do its job, means nothing else. And finally, these technical changes and operational definitely due to sound logic and reason should be supported. However, we should also support our proposals to protect the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33598	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. He is the first respected representative of Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33599	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33600	Excuse me, we have a correction. Dear Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33601	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations from my colleague Bernardic. The first, which said monetary policy cannot address economic problems although many theorists are in love with fiscal policy and solve economic problems, has shown that monetary policy instruments alone can increase production, increase employment and maintain price stability, which is also the goal of economic policy. I would also correct the incorrect fact that additional regulatory costs due to changes to the laws, existing laws and harmonisation of legislation with the European Union were the cause of an increase in interest. The increase in interest is due exclusively to the bank's desire for more profits and, for example, since 2001, the active banks have increased two and a half times, and the profits have increased 5.2 times. On an asset significantly lower in 2001, a bank made 700 million kunas of profits, and in the last year a billion and 600 million kunas of profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33602	Thank you. Kreso Filipovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33603	Thank you very much. ... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33604	Your Honor, I'd like you to count yourself in. Tak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33605	Thank you, Vice President. Nine and a half months ago, so it passed the Credit Institutions Act in the Republic of Croatia. Let us remember how the Credit Institutions Act generally regulates the conditions for the establishment, operation and termination of the work of banks and other credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia and the supervisory of their business, but also the conditions under which legal persons established outside the Republic of Croatia can provide banking and financial services in its area, as clearly defined in Article 1. Credit institutions law. As indicated by the name itself, a new concept of credit institutions representing legal entities which have therefore been approved by the competent authority for work, means from the Croatian National Bank, which can be established as banks, savings banks, residential savings banks or electronic money institutions. It should also be pointed out that credit institutions, but if you want banks, are of paramount importance for the overall economic and financial system of each country, it is therefore very important to make constant efforts to adopt the highest international standards of financial and banking business and, in accordance with them, to have a quality legislative framework containing mechanisms, instruments to effectively prevent and address possible crisis situations in the business of credit institutions. That is why, in the 9th month of last year, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Credit Institutions, which was recently fully in line with the relevant European Union directives on the establishment and operation of credit institutions and their reorganisation and liquidation, and for which, if memory serves well, we all jointly concluded that it was a significant step forward in the direction of stability and security and orderly business of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a law amending the Law on credit institutions, as can be seen from the proposed text, does not assume any substantial changes, but changes of a purely technical nature and which are in the transitional and final shifted deadlines for the harmonisation of credit institutions with the provisions of the law and the time limits for the validity of certain provisions of the Bank Act which will remain in force until the final harmonisation of credit institutions with this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on credit institutions is prescribed that all credit institutions which are authorised to operate on the date of its entry into force are obliged to comply with certain provisions of the law and, at the latest, by 1 July 2009. These obligations relate, inter alia, to the prescribed adequateness of the guaranteed capital, to the provisions on large exposures, to internal capital, to the prosecution, to the composition of supervisory committees and to any other provision. In addition, paragraph 5 of the same Act provides for the obligation to bring savings banks in line with the provisions of Article 157 of the law governing the restrictions relating to the investment in capital of non-financial institutions and material assets by the end of this year, and paragraph 6 of the obligation to comply with the provisions of Article 369(4) and the regulations adopted on the basis of those rules until 1 July 2009, that is to say, for all credit institutions. It should be pointed out that the essence of the proposed amendments to the Credit Institutions Act is contained in the delay of the set deadlines for the coordination of credit institutions with certain provisions of the laws that I previously spoke of and the regulation of a single time limit for harmonisation, so 31 March 2010. The reasons why these amendments are proposed are purely pragmatic, noting that the European Commission is not opposed to this way of amending this law. In fact, we are expected in a very soon time to make more extensive changes and to supplement the current law, given the fact that on 6 May 2009, the European Parliament amended and amended Directive 48/06 concerning the establishment and operation of credit institutions. The basic paper amending and supplementing the Directive concerns high exposure, risk management, cooperation between supervisors of Member States and electronic money institutions that will no longer be within the circle of credit institutions. Finally, in view of the need to align the further Law on credit institutions with the legal property of the European Union, i.e. with the amended and amended provisions of the Directive, but, above all, because it will avoid the high costs of harmonising existing credit institutions with the provisions of the applicable law, and their unnecessary multiple harmonisation, I believe it is entirely justified to adopt these amendments and amendments. I would only say to Mr Bernardić that we have talked about it that it will likely be in the future and earlier that there will be future amendments to the European directives, and according to this change of our national legislation, so there is no need to be surprised at what has happened in this case because we have said that the legal regulation is a living body. I would also remind him that some day the International Monetary Fund said that the Government's anti-recession measures in the Republic of Croatia produce results and they can personally agree that banks at this time of the financial crisis and economic recession must give and give their pain and their greater contribution than they have so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33606	Thank you. Now it's our guest of honor, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Just a few sentences on the proposed amendments to the law, although it is understandable to all and the needs for which they are adopted. And of course, some things and the current situation in Europe and the world are likely to change in recommendations or directives of the European Union. The fact is that we passed this law as stated in the proposal on January 1, 2008, it seems to me that it may be guilty because we discussed it last year at 9 months, and the deadlines have been application since 1.1.2009, or harmonisation for these most of the things that we have mentioned here today since 1.7.2009. It is also a fact that credit institutions are now pro-longing this harmonisation by the following year by March. It's a lot of things. It is as the law states in Article 369 on the adequateness of the guarantee capital, on large exposures, on the harmonisation of issues and supervisory committees, etc. More or less all the things that banks, i.e. credit institutions, have had two weeks to live today. The fact is very likely that many of them have already prepared themselves in such a way and that it would be possible if they took this job seriously to function from 1.7. I understand that this market and these institutions are trying to get together, not to be charged with unnecessary costs especially at this time when both the recession and the liquidity problems of these institutions are etc. But the fact is also that we can't change the law two weeks before and tell someone that we shouldn't when he's probably already adapted all those items so he can operate under the current law. What is important to say is that these costs, which were likely to be triggered by compliance with the law that came into force and with the 1.7, had to be brought to life by the fact that on the market too, we are likely to have an increase in interest rates this year, i.e. that Croatian citizens have to withdraw more from their salaries and pay costs at the expense of their standard which they might not have to pay if such compliance had not been with 1.7. On the other hand, the fact is that banks do not decide to go to the expense of their profits, because in the first half of this year the profits will be identical to the one that was last year. It's about 2.7 billion kuna only in the first term. There will be some place where they will move as much as they do, and the fact is that banks do not decide to go to the expense of their profits, but they decide in a way that they can see how much Croatian citizens and how much they can ultimately pay for it and the economy. Today, interest rates on loans for the economy are 11.12% and it's very difficult to get credit at all. And of course, such an environment doesn't fit the economy either because it can't even finance its regular business. On the other hand, when we talk about this market, it is very important to say that we need to think about a banking sector that has proved stable in the past year. But we must also always bear in mind that it is a market that is also a market that is 90.5% foreign-owned institution. What am I saying that for? I say this because, unfortunately, sometimes these institutions are not primarily interested in the domestic economy and the local population, but it is an interest to satisfy their stockholders and to bring in the profits that the same stackholders put before them. And that's why when we're passing laws and we're discussing a situation that's happening on the credit institution market, we need to take care of it. And that is why the Club of Representatives of the SDP also proposed a new law that will destimulate banks to raise interest rates and that in this year, when each kuna will be of paramount importance to Croatian citizens, to give up some of their profits in this year. There is no reason for Croatian banks to have 5 billion profits this year. Five billion of which will, of course, be paid a share and a profit tax. It remains for the Croatian state, but a large amount of it will come out of Croatia and a large amount, i.e. the absolute amount paid by Croatian citizens. And when we talk about the 300 kuna increase in the loan war we're talking about that without 300 kuna of the Croatian bank this year, we're talking about a billion, maybe a billion and 200000, a billion and 200 million kunas less profits. But there would be about one salary left for a Croatian family this year. So we need to take care and of course we need to help these laws, prolongates of some things that are not yet crucial to live in two weeks, that we need to help this sector. But we also need to send a clear message that we need to think about Croatian citizens. And if we help this sector adjust more easily and ultimately we have less costs that they must also give up part of the profits for the benefit of all our citizens this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33608	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33609	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Maras, of course the banks will not only give up maintaining their profits, but also constantly seeking to gain a rise. But I would also point out that keeping the profits can also be done by reducing revenues while reducing expenditure. And while the whole economy and all Croatian citizens are constantly cutting their expenditures, and their income has been reduced due to wage cuts as well as our salary cuts, and when we talk about our salaries, then we can say that the average representative's salary in a year is about 200 to 220 thousand kuna net, and that only one man in one bank has net incomes of 5 million kuna, in another 3 million and 330 thousand kuna, in a third 3 million 110 thousand kuna and not one has yet reduced his salary or given up consulting expensive services, nor a team of buildings, nor advertising in the economy or in the media, where 50 million euros have spent only last year. So, we should not expect them to give up their profits, and when they speak, they keep saying that they are getting a rise. Who's talking about the increase in profits these days? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33610	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33611	Thank you very much. You're right fellow Maric, but it's very simple to explain. Unfortunately, the market, free market and services offered should not be expected to be given willingly if that profit can be achieved. Especially when we're talking about 90.5% being owned by other people. Unfortunately, we have sold the banks towards the outward and normal that they then feel more responsible for their banks and their owners, rather than for the part of the population, of course no bank will go to that extent to destroy both the economy and the citizens, but of course there should be more sensitivity to how successful business will be for its strike holders, but rather to the situation in Croatia. I think it's absolutely deplaceable to talk about any increase in profits this year. I spoke to a colleague a few days ago who dealt with the subject, and then a man told me that whatever you want, why you're proposing a law to tax interest of more than 7%. So this year, the banks will only have 1% of the tax, he says, 1% of the increase gets. So what would make this year's profit increase? When you look at all other economic operators in Croatia who are struggling to keep the level of profit at all, that is to say, not to be much less than it was last year, cut the costs, cut the workforce, a lot of people are fired and will not succeed again. And we're talking about this sector about keeping the level of profit. And unfortunately, it still comes from all these citizens and a lot of those who are going to be out of work because in the other part of the economy, the situation is not happening as it should be. And so I thank you for the replica and I ask, here you are and from fellow MPs on the other side of the HDZ to support and not always go to some...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33612	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33613	Here, just one sentence. Prime Minister Sanader has a constant appeal to Croatian banks, this is wrong, this is wrong. So we can very simply solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33614	Your Honor, I'd like you to finish up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33615	We pass the law, here, two words, we pass a law that will limit the growth of interest rates from being greater than 7% and solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33616	Thank you. I beg of you, you are the first to report that we must not violate the Rules of Procedure. And I accept that, but you have to stick to it. We have to hold on, come on. The second replica is the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33617	My colleague, in your debate with no reply to the replica, you have determined to call for social responsibility, as it is absolutely necessary by the banks. The call, and what you have now apostrophe in your replica about the Prime Minister, calls for appeal, for their consciousness and conscience. I personally, and here I see you, and also my colleague Maric, do not agree to the hypocritical impotence of the state. The state has all the instruments that such a one-eyed behavior of banks and banking institutions when the state is in trouble, when people are in trouble, they get rich. And for what? Because they are enabled to do so and the state is surprised, appealed, praying, and has all the instruments, as it has instruments that can come immediately to every pensioner when he doesn't pay 20 kuna. Please, calling for some kind of ethics here, social responsibility itself is a hypocrisy. Therefore, to reject our proposal for a law to tax an unwarranted or any increase in interest, interest on citizens' loans is indeed what they call rather than hypocrisy. So what's become of these banking institutions that are nothing but gourmets? Let's look at what their institutions look like. They bounce away from all other houses and buildings, any state institutions. They have become simply temples of a new god of money to be detonated. The state has all the mechanisms and let's choose to put them in motion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33618	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33619	Thank you very much, colleague Anticevic. I wouldn't be as tough as you were in your show. The fact is that banks have to show understanding and I don't even mind, some managers in that market if they're successful and earn 200 and 500 thousand kuna, it's not at all controversial. But it is disputed that they act as they think they should, and we in a country where the central government in which state companies have a huge opportunity to create the behaviour of these banks towards citizens because they simply hold big money. So take a look at state-owned companies, INA, Croatia insurance, see Croatian waters, forests. That's billions of kuna. So come on, let's make a deal. Let the state-owned companies agree together and say ok, in this year who raises interest rates on housing loans, we're moving deposits from his bank. Then we'll see if he'll raise the housing loans. That's one way. Secondly, let's pass a law that we'll call over 7%, so it'll pay them more to be 6.7 than to be 7.5. And we can do a lot of things, and we haven't done anything, and we can be angry as much as we want, and we can call out that they're the Pharaohs, this, that, but nothing's gonna happen. They will endure criticism and drive on their own. We must give Croatian citizens hope and protect them from being left with 300 kuna more every month for their needs without having to pay the loan. It's just that they weigh themselves in on bread, fruit, children to pay the loan war more and that's what's not allowed. Here's a little shorter, since last time I was longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33620	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when we get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33621	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Credit Institutions Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 348. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendments to the Legislative Committee. ... Several amendments, therefore, have been accepted in accordance with Article 169. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We don't vote on the Rules of Procedure. I therefore vote on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Credit Institutions. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that this law has been passed by most votes. 96 votes for, 7 abstentions, nothing against along with accepted amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33622	We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. It is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 354. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So there are two basic reasons why we are going to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act. One is related to the harmonisation of the applicable law with Directive No 6 of 2003 on the illegal purchase of shares and market manipulation, we can tell the abuse of the market. The applicable law is complemented by provisions governing infringements for acts of prohibited behaviour, i.e. market abuse. Although the Law on Criminal Cases against the Capital Market provides for punishment and imprisonment for the same acts of prohibited conduct, these provisions include the intention of obtaining an illegal property benefit. If the intention of obtaining an illegal property benefit does not prove itself, such behaviours should be criminally sanctioned, and this is in fact foreseen by these amendments and additions. Among other things, it should also be said that this harmonisation of the applicable law with Directive No 6 meets one of the criteria for closing negotiations in Chapter 9. - Financial services. The second reason for the adoption of this law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Capital Market Act, is very similar to the reasons we had in the amendments and additions to the Law on Credit Institutions and on Electronic Money, which is that on 6 May, therefore, in the European Parliament already mentioned and amended Directive 48 of 2006 which was actually implemented in Croatian legislation. Basic change, i.e. in part of major risk management exposures and cooperation between national supervisors. And as for the previous reason, therefore, the conditions under which investment firms operate will, in all likelihood, be substantially changed in relation to the solutions of the applicable law, so that this harmonisation would actually create restructuring and potentially greater investment obligations. If, in fact, according to the amended Directive, number 48 will no longer be. Let it also say, therefore, this proposed amendment of the Committee on Law is acceptable, the government accepts it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33624	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And first they're clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have heard this proposal to amend and supplement the Capital Market Act is for two reasons only. The first reason is to comply with the applicable law with Directive 2003/6... The law on the purchase of shares and market manipulation, i.e. market abuse, and the second reason is to comply with the delay, i.e. the harmonisation of investment companies of the applicable law with the deadline of 30 June 2009 on 30 March 2010. It is indisputable that the existing law also provided that the Law on Criminal Cases against the Capital Market prescribed fines, as well as prison sentences for all acts of prohibited behaviour. But the provisions were such that they contained the intention of conduct in terms of obtaining illegal property benefit. Of course, in practice it has been very common that this intention could not be proved. Well, we had such cases in the Republic of Croatia when it came to selling shares of Croatian telecommunications, sales of Pliva shares, etc. This amendment now provides that when the intention of illegal, acquisition of illegal property use is not to be proved, it is to be appropriate to comply with the offences. Therefore, the applicable law is complemented by provisions governing infringements of the acts of prohibited conduct referred to in Articles 456, 457, 458 of the applicable law governing market abuse. As the Directive was amended in the European Parliament on 6 May 2009 and provides for the re-amending of the Capital Markets Act to comply with these Directives, and as the current law provided for the deadline for the harmonisation of investment firms on 30 June this year, it is now necessary to move that deadline on 30 March 2010, as further changes and amendments will take place, the addition of the Capital Market Act due to this amended Directive of 6 May 2009. This deadline therefore seems reasonable to allow for all the amendments and additions provided for in this Directive to be brought into line by then. Of course, the HDZ Club will support such changes and additions to the Capital Market Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33626	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33627	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This is the Capital Market Act that we adopted in July last year has exactly 600 articles. And it's one of the most comprehensive laws that we've been in this House of Highs that we've adopted lately. And that in a way that we have applied all the directives, absolutely all the MiFIDA directives at the time when certain European Union countries have not applied all the directives. At that time, we warned that the law was too complicated, too serious, and would have a huge impact on the investment community, not only on them, but on all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in order to bring it into effect quickly, to bring about in times of strong crisis that has affected investment investors all over Europe, and that this law is definitely not necessary to take effect since it should take effect. At least that part of all the provisions. And now he sees miracles coming to us from the European Union itself, for which we have warned that it will probably happen in the directive and related to the calculation of capital adequateness in part of the high risk management exposure and cooperation among the supervisors of the countries. And that disputed provision is extended from July 1st 2009, as it should have been, means the rate of calculation of capital adequateness on March 31st 2010, which is what we then assumed the expected prolongation in the spirit of that time meant the global economic and economic crisis, and the investment crisis that affected Europe and when we said things would change. However, we will not support this law because of it, but we will not support this law because of one of the far more important things that we have warned about and then and to which I will draw attention today. The Capital Market Act ceased to have an obligation to quote public shareholders which was a mandatory quotation for all shares companies with a public offering. I must say, when a public stock quotation was introduced, there was an investment expansion in Croatia. Why? Because citizens, small investors, could be informed on the basis of transparent data on the business of companies listed on the public stock exchange, and this example not only gave good indicators in Croatia but also followed by countries in the region, followed by countries that are still developing their financial market, which, based on this example, had success. After that, as well as European standards do not prescribe the obligation to quote public stock quotations on the stock exchange, the obligation to quote all companies on the stock market has changed in that part that this obligation is lifted at the time of Croatia's entry into the EU, i.e. So companies can delinquent themselves. What's going on? At the moment of the stock market break, at the moment of the fall of market values, at the moment when Croatian companies by market indicators are far less worth, of course, that there is the interest of the company owners themselves to withdraw their shares or that the stock indicators are not indicators of the business of these companies or the value of those companies. I must remind you that at that time in July of the month here in this house we have proposed an amendment and it is related to something that is particularly important and that I will especially withdraw. In Article 332 of the Capital Market Act, you provided for and prescribed that deleveraging could be carried out. withdrawing from the stock exchange from the core capital represented in the main assembly when making a decision at the main meeting of shareholders. If 51% or 50 plus 1 shareholders are present in the assembly, this means that only 35% of the total underlying capital can be decided on the withdrawal from the stock exchange. We felt it was unacceptable, you did not accept this amendment and I have to say that in Croatia there are a large number of companies in which one man owns 35% of the capital and that this will de facto allow one man to decide whether the companies will withdraw from the stock market or stay on the stock market because for small shareholders it is more expensive to go to the shareholders' assembly, pay the gas, pay the costs to come there than to participate in the same assembly, than they benefit from the same shares. And it would not be disputed if they retreat, but there is yet another controversial provision that says it means small shareholders will be paid at a fair price. And what's that fair price? What's the fair price? Is that the price of trading in the last three months? It doesn't say anything, and it's not prescribed anywhere, and it's going to be decided by the HANFA, and it's going to have control over it. But I also have to tell you that today in Croatia, 200 or 300% of the individual shares are going down in one day. If one company announces they're going to deliberate from the stock market, so what, they're not going to grow shares of that company. No, exactly the opposite. It's going to fall, and not just that, then it's going to buy its own shares for a much lower price. In this way, small shareholders in Croatia who are over half a million will be directly damaged because they will receive less for their shares. And not only that, that way, we're going to completely collapse and destroy the capital market that, in this year and last year, is going to be very loose. Therefore, the SDP club cannot support this law. We have put forward a proposal for an amendment to be a total underlying capital, not a voting right in the assembly where de facto one man can decide to withdraw from the stock exchange and therefore we will not support this law because this law is against small shareholders who are more than half a million in Croatia and would be crazy to support it and it is a law against the developed capital market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33628	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. We have a registered representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Contribution. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33629	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 354. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. In the course of the debate, it was accepted, in accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We don't vote on him. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that this law has been passed with most votes. 77 votes for, 5 abstentions and against 28, along with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33630	We're moving to agenda five. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Hunting Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 337 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received the proposal by post.The emergency procedure shall apply in accordance with Article 161. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by representative Marin Brkarić, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Herman Sušnik State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. Here is the draft law amending and supplementing the Hunting Act with the final draft of the law. Breeding, protecting, hunting and using savages have been governed by the 2005 Hunting Act. It is estimated that minor amendments and additions of laws should be made to the necessary legal harmonisation and the removal of minor difficulties in its implementation. Progress in hunting management has been made in the implementation of the law so far, hunting customs, traditions and hunting ethics are being revived. In the Republic of Croatia there are 1061 hunting sites of which 315 national, 746 common on the total area of 5.36 million hectares. Wild game funds, except for the race and the stonefish, have been recorded in the prescribed economic capacity and some have significantly higher wild boars and bears. Decisions have been made on the establishment of hunting grounds and game breeding sites with corresponding cards in scale 1:25 thousand for all national and common hunting sites. Breeding areas for deer, giants, wild boars are being established... operationally implement the brown bear management plan, a central hunting record system has been established. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Hunting tourism has become a larger number of counties an important part of the entire tourist offer, and completed procedures for extending the hunting contract, an approved hunting-economic base for about 90% of national and common hunting sites. But hunting is also faced with a lot of problems from the subjective weaknesses of first-hundred and objective difficulties I point out to the mining of the terrain, non-populations of certain areas, lack of agricultural areas, fires in the coastal area, a large number of unregulated waste dumps, construction of infrastructure facilities that threaten the migration of game, poaching and others. The basic issues covered by this law primarily relate to the harmonisation of procedures, the award of concessions of hunting rights, to the Law on concessions. It also abolishes the possibility of converting the Institute of the Rental of the Rights of the Hunting, the Institute of the concession of the right to hunt. Harmonisation has been carried out with Directive 92/443 of the European Union, a directive on the conservation of wild flora and fauna natural habitats, and Directive 79/409 conservation of wild birds that live freely in nature. Relations between expert committees on the establishment of common hunting grounds are being arranged. It shall be possible to extend the lease to strictly established criteria. The treatment of game animals, parts thereof in accordance with the Veterinary Act and the Food Act is prescribed. The possibility of prescribing is given, means the possibility of using hunting weapons and other means that are otherwise prohibited to remove game and other animal species that endanger human, game and other species' health. It is also prescribed responsibility for the damage to the game and for the damage to the vehicle as a result of an attack on the game. It is in line with the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Engineers, Forestry and Wood Technology in that part of which can build a hunting economic base. Nomotechnically, it is explicitly determined in view of the change in the formation of the ministry. Finally, I would like to say that these amendments and additions do not change the basic settings of the current law but are complemented, they are elaborated, new ones are added as a consequence of new circumstances, which I believe will further improve relations with respect to breeding, hunting protection, game use with a view to the conservation of wildlife habitats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33632	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Yeah. Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, Honorary Representative Zlatko Koračević, Chairman of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33633	Thank you very much. At its 17th session on 17 June, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament discussed this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Hunting Act with the final draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 21 May 2009. In accordance with the provisions of Rule 88a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee carried out the debate on that draft law as a parent working body and did not object to the proposal of the Proposer on the application of the emergency procedure in its adoption. In the introduction of the proposal, he pointed out that the proposed law carries out further harmonisation of our legislation in the field of hunting with the acquis of the European Union, with the directive on the conservation of habitats and wild flora and fauna, the Council Directive on the conservation of birds that live freely in nature, the Convention on Biological Variety, the Convention on the Protection of European Wild Species and Natural Habitats, and the Convention on International Trade of endangered species, wild fauna and flora and the Convention on Wetlands, which are of particular international importance as the habitat of swamp birds. Following the opening presentation of the representatives of the committee, the committee members supported the adoption of this law in the debate in which the representative of the Croatian Hunting Union was involved, for the reason that the proposed solutions would improve relations in hunting and with the aim of preserving and protecting game and its natural habitats as national treasures. However, in further discussion, the opinion put forward that a change in the number of articles would have made it better for the applicant to propose the adoption of a new law. It has also been pointed out that it is not logical that the extension of the contract on the lease of common and state hunting grounds is linked to the fact that the prosecution of certain infringements is filed because it has no effect unless the proceedings are completed for the offence. The opinion was given that liability for damage to the vehicle from gamers rather than to be carried by the driver should be resolved through the insurance procedures. In further discussion, it is also stated that the work of a hunting inspector, i.e. the State Hunting Inspector, is too demanding and that the proposed working period for their performance of 3 and 5 years is not sufficient. The debate further stated that the provision of Article 7 needs to be completed in such a way that the proposal of the expert commission of the ministry is binding on the competent authority of the city of Zagreb, since it is a matter of harmonising the territorial structure of the units of local and regional self-government already mentioned in other provisions of this law. It is also proposed that due to the golf course law in which the construction of a golf course is established as an activity of special interest for the Republic of Croatia, including the deforestation of forests and forest land and forest economic grounds, it is necessary to supplement the provision of Article 10, because it is proposed that in the event of a change in hunting status due to the construction of a golf course for a golfer there is no right to seek compensation, no compensation from the ministry. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hunting Act with two amendments adopted by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33634	Any other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, they have shared and will first speak to the distinguished representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33635	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. That's right, I'll share this debate with a passionate hunter, my colleague, Mr. Marin Brkaric. For many it seems that this law is marginal but I will be here for us... Not that he's essential, he's almost existential, why, I'll say later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, what I might say and it'll sound like a joke, like a joke, we in Buzet would say "squirt," but I'll touch myself like I said one of the life problems of many Istrians, especially the Buzecans, and that's the problem of wild pigs, and that's my debate in that context, I'll be under Article 29 and 30 of this Act. These feral pigs have started to cause us such problems that nobody else is worth farming, I'm talking clearly about Buzet right now. You've got herds, pack, I don't know what it's called, 30, 40 of those pests, and when they or they go into action behind them, nothing clearly grows. Now, what's the problem? The problem is that at night we must not kill these animals. It means that they can normally, uninterruptedly hack. The other problem is, how do I put it, I'm not a hunter, a limit that you can shoot according to some hunting ground. Instead of putting these animals in the right sense of that word outside the law, we protect this savage with absurd norms. They're coming to the houses themselves, and they're almost coming into the houses. 200 metres from home you can't shoot those animals. The third problem is damages in the event of damage that is not enough for an ore captain, let alone for cultural compensation that is destroying you. But where is the biggest problem when it comes to embezzlement, and I believe it is elsewhere. We're gentlemen of the border community, and it's normal that you can't even hunt near the border, clearly you can't shoot there. And what's going on? In the true sense of that word, we are exposed to the dictatorships of these animals and the democracies of absurd regulations that protect these animals. So, I'm up for it when it comes to wild boars to fence everything around the hunt and stuff. ad act should be put aside. In one word, our laws protect wild pigs more than they protect themselves, so to speak, farmers, people. Between wild boars and humans, clearly farmers, should be sided with farmers and people. I had to say it because if I didn't say it, I don't know how you'd get back down to Buzet tomorrow. I do, Secretary of State, assure you that this problem is more than serious to us down here, that we can no longer plant any culture without knowing that we will be left without it. And that's why I really advocate that this wild boar hunt can be maintained 24 hours a day times 365 days a year and that there are really no more limits, because there's going to be a moment when we're going to have to say either us or those.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33636	Thank you. ... Please continue the debate. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Dear Representative Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33637	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to say about the changes and additions to the Hunting Act. First of all, I will commend the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy on quality changes. And what I would particularly like to say would be worth it if the other ministries were working in a similar way because a broad debate was carried out on this law or on the amendments and amendments to the law... Hunting associations such as the Croatian Hunting Union, in the hunting alliances of the county and in the Hunting Union of the Istrian County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they certainly had the opportunity and all hunting associations to make their own proposals, initiatives, to improve the existing Hunting Law and to improve in certain parts of this law and presented. Of course, what is said is that, these amendments and additions to the law are mainly related to compliance with European Union directives and conventions. In the second part of the alignment with the Law on concessions adopted last year, but also certain solutions that are in this law of the day are solutions that go towards further development and improvement of hunting in the Republic of Croatia. I would say that we are also satisfied with the level of the Istrian County which is a quality or well-solved liability and damages from savages both in agriculture and in transport and in game damage, that it is also well-delivered and liability insurance. What we think, and we don't think that these amendments and the amendments to the law are perfect, because we've given the four amendments that are necessary I would say more detailedly regulate, it's hunting tourism, reduce some bureaucratic solutions that are precisely in some part and hindering this hunting tourism. So I think it would be good if through the amendments, I gave them four, but I will not especially explain them, that through amendments to this text of the law or amendments to the law, we improve, that those amendments that can be used to further develop and improve hunting and as an economic branch, given that hunting tourism is also, I would say, in the segment of total tourism are significant, important and will be more and more significant. Here I'd say we'll support the amendments and the additions to the laws. I believe that the proposer will accept the amendments proposed. The amendments are also proposed by the Parties as proposals of the Istria County Hunting Union, and the text of the amendment is shared to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33638	Thank you. It's the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33639	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. After this dictatorship of wild boars, I'll do something different. Since '94. In accordance with the provisions of the Hunting Law, more than a thousand hunting grounds were established on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, meaning 320 national and 730 joint. These hunting grounds are designated by hunters or concessionaires and contracts for lease or concession. For all hunting grounds, hunting grounds have been developed and approved, and in accordance with them, the rights of hunting masters to hunting sites. So, most of the work in law enforcement from '94. the year was completed and hunting grounds were established and the officers of the hunting rights and the hunting grounds were managed on the basis of these planning documents. During 2004, a detailed analysis was carried out over the past 10 years at the implementation of the Hunting Law, and it was found that hunting still faces a lot of problems. A low degree of accumulation of funds in the hunting industry, the poor financial capacity of most hunting authorities, there is a major inequality on the success of the management of both hunting rights and among certain regions, incompetence on the foreign market, etc. They are mostly the result of subjective weaknesses of hunting rights holders, but there are also objective difficulties that point out: slow renewal of the breeding funds of certain species of game, the disruptive structure of the game population, the systematic increase in the number of strictly protected species and areas, restrictions and prohibitions in the production of game and wild game, epidemic spread of game diseases, the growing need for financial investment in hunting management, the lack of financial support for the production of feathered game and fire foxes, a low level of hunting tourism, a small number of hunting agencies, mining, mining, depopulation of entire areas and the follow-up of the lack of farmland treatment, their deforestation and deforestation, fire in coastal and coastal areas, a large number of wild and unsettled waste dumps and the reduction of the area of urban areas of land. It has been estimated that unresolved and accumulated hunting problems must be fully resolved before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union if we want our specialities to mean natural habitats, variety of offers, etc. be competitive on the European market, and if we want hunting tourism to become an important part of the whole tourist offer again, and as such verified in their development programmes. Therefore, the Hunting Authority developed a proposal for a new Hunting Act, which was adopted by the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia in December 2005, which addressed a number of issues that hampered the rapid development of hunting. Before all day long, the law provides support to law enforcement authorities in a way that allows them long-term management, order on the market, strict surveillance and support in the management of hunting grounds. The law adopts all European principles, starting with the International Council for the Hunting, Breeding and Protection of Wildlifes, Confirmed International Conventions and World Standards in the Protection of Nature, the Protection and Conservation of Wildlifes, its habitats and the Conservation of Biological Balance. The law removes all obstacles and difficulties that have made it difficult to develop and improve hunting so far. This new legal solution introduced a number of order in hunting, starting with the management of hunting grounds in breeding, protecting, hunting and traffic with game and its parts and the use of hunting weapons. Hunting tourism is also encouraged. Hunting customs, traditions, hunting ethics are being revived, and hunters and their associations are more effectively involved in the development and promotion of hunting as important industries of our country. The analysis of the hunting situation over the past three years of law enforcement has assessed the need to make minor changes and amendments to the law for the necessary legal harmonisation and removal of minor difficulties over its full implementation. The questions covered by this law relate primarily to the harmonisation of the concession procedure of hunting rights with the Law on concessions, so that Articles 1 to 14 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Hunting Law are fully aligned with the Law on concessions. These provisions abolish the possibility of converting the lease of hunting rights institutes into a concession of hunting rights institute. The provisions of this law have been brought into line with the European Union directives in the part where the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia are not acceptable to the European Commission. Thus, Articles 27, 29 of this Law stipulates the possibility of removing animal species that are not game from hunting grounds, or eco-systems, thus allowing for faster and more efficient removal of invasive species and habitats that disrupt the ecological balance. In addition, it is prescribed to prohibit the use of non-selective means to catch game, in accordance with Articles 15 and 16 of that Directive. Article 35 of this Act has been complied with in accordance with Article 6. The Birds Directive. In addition to the proposal for this law, relations between expert committees for the establishment of common hunting grounds are regulated, the possibility of extending the lease hunts to strictly established criteria is given that the ministry responsible for hunting activities can provide for the possibility of using hunting weapons and other means which are otherwise prohibited to remove game and other animal species that endanger human, game and other species' health. The law also prescribes the treatment of game animals and parts thereof in accordance with the Veterinary Act and the Food Act. This law prescribes what conditions hunting dogs must meet, under which conditions can be used in hunting. The law lays down responsibility for the damage to the game and for the damage to the vehicle as a result of an attack on the game. The law is in line with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia for certain administrative areas. The law also adopted in the normative order of hunting the principles of international advice for the preservation of game and hunting confirmed international conventions and world standards in the protection of nature, the protection and conservation of game and its habitats, and the preservation of biological balance or the need to establish it where it is disturbed. This law also regulates the issue of hunting management, as well as the responsibility of the expert service for the implementation of the hunting economic base, the game breeding programme and the wildlife protection programme that has not yet been available. Due to all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33640	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the distinguished representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33641	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear associates. Well, the previous speakers have already said the reasons for the amendments to the supplements, primarily for the reason that they comply with the applicable Law on concessions, and the harmonisation with the Council of Europe Directive, i.e. the Habitats Directive and the Council of Europe Directive on birds. Normally, by developing society to develop and hunt, from the very first initial concern for man’s survival, it means through hunting and hunting savages to today’s concern for this same hunting game. The development of science and profession has led to an understanding of the number of savages that can live in an area in accordance with habitat possibilities, i.e. hunting grounds, to bring it into order and to manage the hunting grounds in a way that preserves biodiversity, and that the damages from savages are as certain as possible and the quality of the Hunting Laws. The 1994 law changed the entire system of hunting management and the authorisation of hunting for tenants. Own hunting sites were introduced, i.e. national hunting sites and common hunting grounds in the area of the county. This was precisely needed in postwar years to prevent all that damage to the game because of a large number of weapons, postwar events, uncontrolled wounding and killing savages, and this law created assumptions for proper management of the Wildlife Fund, but also for their protection to the number of habitat possibilities. The 2005 law harmonised hunting management with other legal acts, but also with the Council of Europe Directive. The law regulates relations in hunting management with which the challenges that have made it difficult to develop and improve hunting were to be brought into line. It created assumptions for the introduction of order in hunting, breeding, protection, hunting and traffic with game and its parts and the use of hunting weapons. But also to arrange the relationship between the poachers and the giver of the money rights. There were also assumptions for the development of hunting tourism, the reviving of hunting customs and traditions, the strengthening of hunting ethics and the action and involvement of hunters in the development and promotion of hunting as significant economic branches, as well as the tourist branches of the Republic of Croatia. Most of these assumptions have been achieved because according to data from the Central Hunting Records, the number of gamers is approaching the prescribed economic capacity. Here are the races and stones, which have not reached that number yet, but is also a bear and a wild pig, especially here, we have heard here, which are much more than the possibility of habitats, which for the consequence has spread to new habitats, means the coasts and islands and increasing damage to agricultural cultures, but I also have to mention the forest species because it also reduces the possibilities of easier rejuvenation... Based on this, the development of hunting tourism is marked by a significant increase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Hunting still faces a lot of problems, primarily mine dangers. We know that there is still a large part of Croatia, there is a danger of mines, then the migration of the population from rural areas, the abandonment of these agricultural areas, which is directly evident in the increase of the number of savages, the threat of agricultural monoculture, which reduces the biodiversity of game, the construction of highways, which prevents the natural migration of game, the poor economic situation of the majority of the population, which prevents the purchase of game meat, i.e. the creation of a brand based on the processing of game meat, because in some ways and weak incentives for the processing of wildlife are sold or shared within hunting societies, associations without any compensation. Subjectively, they are primarily in the hunt for tenants and their wishes and desires, including the lack of understanding of hunting ethics and legislation. That's why it was necessary... amending the Hunting Act, but unfortunately I have to reassess, not as changes and additions, but I personally think, and on behalf of the club, that it should have gone as a complete amendment to the Hunting Act because this Hunting Act has 103 articles, and this one has 48 articles, therefore, the application itself on the ground I think will be a little bit twice as interpreted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that all these articles have, above all, a professional qualification of compliance with those laws and directives of the Council of Europe, but there are also a few articles to be responded to and warned about. This shall primarily apply to Articles 17 and 19, i.e. the extension of the lease agreement of the common, i.e. State hunting ground, which states in paragraphs 4, 2 and 2 that the lease agreement may be extended if, in the past period, no proposals for infringements referred to in Articles 96 and 98 have been tabled. What if the accused, if the poacher has worked neatly for 116 months or 112 months, does not have a single proposal, including 16, or 117, someone has made him an indictment proposal, thereby losing the right to extend the contract and I therefore believe that this should be amended and that a final verdict should be put in place. In this way, we will address the possibilities of possible malversions and problems with the extension of the contract. In Article 37(3), where the driver’s liability is referred to, if no damage occurs to the game, or if the gamer takes off on the road, the driver is guilty because if it is established that he has not adjusted the speed of road conditions. What's that supposed to mean? It is assumed that the weather conditions are normal, that Croatian roads must mark the possibility of savages on the road, a danger. But what if the driver did? Will Croatian roads, county roads or local self-government units compensate for that damage? They probably won't because they'll keep making up reasons and ask the police to find the driver's guilt. The only exception is if the damage is a conditional execution of the common hunt, then the damage is paid by the hunter. But what if the gamer was running away from shooting at predators by inviting them or expecting her to take off on the road? How are we going to prove that, or in what way, the game has also run out on the road from the aftermath of the hunt and there has been a car accident? We believe that this part needs to be solved through mandatory insurance against car responsibility. In Article 38, when it comes to hunting inspectors, why is it that we don't understand why we're reducing years of training for a hunting inspector from five to three, or for a state hunting inspector from ten to five? Just because according to the Statute of the Croatian Chamber of Forest Engineers, it is defined that only after 3 years can he take a professional exam, then he obtains certain qualifications for independent work, so to speak, and in forestry, and therefore I think it is too short, especially in the problem of hunting, the knowledge of the law and everything else, yes, and also the hunter as they sometimes behave, that we will get quality inspection. In the end, I can say that the SDP will support these amendments and the additions of the laws because we believe they are in better and better hunting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33642	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33643	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the Club of the Croatian People's Party, we will support this draft law amending and supplementing the Hunting Law with the Final Proposal of the Law, for the most part, because the law is in line with the legislation of the European Union, in particular with the directives that give us one guarantee and the possibility of sustainable development. We join the remarks of our colleagues, and we believe that it would be far more quality because of all of us, and because of the profession and because of the matter itself, to go with the new bill, given the large number of amendments that have been made, let's say, with this law that we will discuss in the next item of the agenda, which is the Law on forest reproductive material. The fact that the Hunting Act that we brought to this House in 2005 is a lot of things complicated and complex in a way that requires both opportunities and professions and the attention of a good master. The fact that assumptions have also been made for the development of hunting tourism. Unfortunately, however, normatively arranged hunting is only one part of the assumptions that we need, and in order to develop that economic branch, which we have in any case a whole series of assumptions, which is particularly interesting to us because it is tied to the very end, undeveloped areas of the landscape that are in great need of any help, and certainly that this kind of help would be helpful. The law itself we repeat is good. We have several objections, and we have put them on the board, and I hope the Proposer will accept the amendment committees. One notation of a purely principled nature, I think it should be mentioned and it is necessary and necessary which may not be the subject of this law, but in any case the regulations are. And that's related to Article 13 that's talking about breaking up a contract, that the concessionary is bound to... negative differences in game, hunting and hunting facilities according to price list. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And nothing would be questionable if you knew the methodology of counting large game. Namely, the argument that there is a price list as a sublegal act can be partially accepted. And that price list is not controversial. But the way I'm doing it is controversial. How do we determine the negative difference in hunting grounds, no matter what savages we're talking about? For this, there are various methods, scientific, common and crucial, that this information, which is later not dissuasive in a possible court dispute, is also essential, that the methodology is prescribed for this information. And that's why I believe that even with a sublegal act and that's going to solve it, because the question is, first of all, how much has the penalty even been paid so far in the event of a derogation, in the event of some kind of negativity? And at the same time, if the negativity is determined, there is a shortage of game numbers, one shoveler, a wild boar, no matter what savages we're talking about, the concessionary rejects such a decision in court, because there is no prescribed methodology of the fund's status before the calculation of the fund, both before and after the contract of the concession. Therefore, in any case, we believe in the Croatian People's Party club that this methodology should also be prescribed for clarity, precisely because of control, and all those deviations that are certainly present especially in large commercial hunting sites, but I want to visit that and the large commercial hunting grounds are usually concessionaries. They're not companies, they're legal or private. And we believe that in this area, one should define how and how something obtained by concession is determined and something which is returned to the state after the concession expires. The Croatian People's Party club is that changes are essentially good. They contribute to the progress of hunting to the Republic of Croatia and we hope that through the adoption of amendments and further sublaws that would fully and fully try to regulate this area. We believe that this is a law that provides a very clear system of behaviour for hunting associations, and especially for concessionaries who work in this area, who have a considerable cost on the one hand, and on the other hand relatively decent income. The Croatian People's Party club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33644	Thank you. It is the turn of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33645	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club also estimate that certain amendments and additions to this existing law are needed. But I believe that we need to take advantage of the opportunity, and we still need to install certain legal gains of the European Union in the existing law. But what we think is necessary is to make changes and complements for our hunters, our hunting associations, whose law is in fact a fundamental law for their successful operation and work. I'll point out a few details that we think need to be changed and done. First of all, I point out the problem of natural game migration. We in the area of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County do not only refer to the area of Bjelovar-Bilogorska but we point out more widely the problem of Article 10 of the existing law which we believe should be amended or completed, i.e. this article enables full construction of the entire hunting grounds. We have that in a few cases, we don't think that's good. And why do we think it's not good? Because the legislator himself says in the opening statement. Hunting still faces a lot of problems. They are mostly the result of subjective weaknesses of hunting rights holders but there are also objective difficulties that highlight the depopulation of the area, the depopulation of entire areas, the large complexes of agricultural areas, the fires in the coastal area, the large number of wild and unregulated waste dumps and, among other things, the construction of infrastructure facilities, especially highways. And now it's mentioned here with fences that prevent the migration of savages. We feel that we need to sort this out in some way. Why? Because this is the reason why we find and determine the problem with fences that prevent natural migration. We believe that every fence prevents the migration of savages and so does the fence that builds the hunting grounds. What would happen if every poacher fenced his hunting ground? What and what kind of migration would savages, natural migration be? She wouldn't be here. The hunting grounds within the hunting grounds that this law is made possible by game growers, but it is certainly not because the fence is simply a fence and we cannot have double criteria for fences within a particular hunting ground or in space. We also point out Article 13 where it might be good to say in point 5 that the ministry may, before the time limit on which the concession is due, simply break the concession agreement to the concession contractor in accordance with the law governing concessions and in the following cases. So in point 5, if the area of the hunting ground decreases by more than 20%, which is normal, but it might be good to build a hunting ground in some way solve it in this point. So, not only does it reduce the hunting ground, but it simply fences and builds up the hunting grounds reduces a certain area completely. We therefore believe that the existing article 10 should in some way determine in a certain percentage or a certain possibility to allow the fences to be carried out, that game growing sites should be fenced but that the hunting ground simply cannot be completely fenced. We also believe that in article 10, when it says "The game farm is established on the surface of its own land.". The existing law regulates that it's between 100 and 200 acres. Our proposal of the HSS Club is to reduce this and that this proposal goes from 20 hectares to 2,000 hectares because we have a situation when we talk about hunting tourism and some of the needs and interests of our individuals who want to deal with or cultivate game that they do not have more than 20 hectares. 20 acres is probably enough surface to fence and move into game breeding. We also point to Article 47 of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Hunting Act where it is proposed that licences for the manufacture of hunting economic foundations be issued by the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Technology, which we consider to be wrong because there is the possibility of issuing licences only to companies from the forest profession. This Regulation shall enter into The law on hunting activities of the expert service for the implementation of the hunting economic base may be carried out by a person who has completed an appropriate hunting training programme during secondary or higher education, which is fine, but in Article 72(2). The law on hunting in the medium professional preparation of the Croatian Hunting Union does not recognise a hunting test which is in collegiate with Article 57. In Article 86(3), too, the responsibility for the damage caused on vehicles is well handled, but the problem is to determine the speed of movement of the vehicle as we have already heard from the earlier debate so that in practice it is usually borne by the poacher. In order to avoid this, an attempt should be made to address the problem of compulsory insurance of a vehicle from an attack on a game. We believe that in this reading through some of our remarks and suggestions that the Proposer will respect them and consider them and of course we will believe in the HSS Club in addition to these remarks that will be accepted and support the proposal to amend and supplement this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33646	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, she's a respected representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33647	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will not support this proposal for a law on hunting because I object to my conscience. I consider hunting an extremely cruel human practice, a practice that in the worst possible way manifests the instrumentalisation of wild animals by human beings. Out of hunting passion, passion for sports killing, killing out of the entertainment and entertainment of other living beings with which we share the planet Earth in the worst possible way is manifested by the human patriarchal belief that we humans have measured all things, absolute masters of heaven and earth, and that the whole nature and wild animals are an extremely important part of nature serve nothing but to be available, exploiting, exploiting and killing by humanity. In that sense, no matter how beautiful the cellophane cloud hunting as a practice, no matter how much European provisions weave this law, the fact remains the same. This law legalises the killing of wild animals by humans in order to entertain, sports, care or entertainment, not because of food or maintain the balance of the eco system. Since I believe that we should prohibit the hunting of wild animals and I remind that practice is defined in Article 26 of the law as a search for, welcoming, observing or catching live game, inviting, tracking, shooting and catching live game, releasing birds of predators, collecting dead game animals and its parts of horns, skin and other and collecting eggs of feathered game, I cannot support this bill at all. I am deeply convinced that today's environmental crisis is a direct consequence of the patriarchal way of thinking that has been marked for thousands of years by the civilization in which we live. This patriarchal model of thinking comes down to the binary relationship of me, where I am what is privileged, what is managed and mastered by everything else and these are not only the whole natural world including plants and animals, but also many groups of others from the world of people, women, non-white races, poorer classes, national, sexual age and other minorities, persons with disabilities. This mentality of a master who is allowed or even natural to unscrupulous and limitlessly exploit others has just led to today’s sad situation of the threatened environment and the devastated nature. In modern times hunting is the only practice of entertainment and sports pleasure. And therefore, the very peak of this partial, binary, hierarchical relationship in the world that comes down to only two modes of existence, domination and repression. Domination of us humans, or hunters, and repression of hunting, or animals. And I repeat it not because of food and survival or the maintenance of ecological balance, which were the main reasons for hunting those cultures that we Westerns in the manner of blocked nose like to call primitives. Peter Singer, founder of the modern animal movement and in his book Animal Liberation, called the Animal Rights Movement the last movement against discrimination by the other largest groups of others and these are inhuman living things. Although it is hard to expect that discrimination against life by people can stop overnight, one of the first steps in this direction could be to ban hunting for sports and other ecological unfounded purposes. In view of the fact that this bill is contrary to this fundamental principle, I cannot support this document as much as it is its content, and this is a hunt-off in quasi modern European practice. Because once all European facades are removed, modern hunting remains what it is, one extremely cruel, heartless and bloody human practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33648	Thank you. Now the distinguished representative of Dragutin Bodakoš is at work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33649	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say that the findings that have been made in this introductory section are related to a law that I am certainly talking about hunting, brought and introduced and certain holdings and farming and protection and traffic to a higher level, surely that this has resulted also in numbers of game and increased hunting tourism. Normally, there are certain problems in this part of it that are also mentioned here and I would just say about the depopulation of the entire areas, that is, what is happening in agriculture and forestry where we are leaving these areas and, normally, that such areas are being abandoned and hunted. There is no mention here of another part, which is the issue of the problem of feathered game, especially in parts related to wetland areas, and even more to ponds that are by their collapse, i.e. by reducing the work on these ponds by the absence of fish, are also in the situation that this population of feathered gamers who exist there that it is no longer as such. However, these amendments to this law and here there have already been talks on those 101 articles we have now 48 articles of amendments I think that, that's not a good solution, it's not a good solution, and it's supposed to go to a new law because still the law is four years old, it's not good, because hunters themselves, or hunting societies, usually think that hunting is too bureaucratic, that the mass of paperwork and that education is weak in that part. So I think there's already been a speech here, and probably this part of it will bring even bigger problems in just implementing what these people need in these hunting societies and those where they grow that game. It also mentions poor statistics on game production, i.e. feathered game, and as part of this, it is difficult to implement management and control plans, which also includes inspection controls, and there are major problems related to the part. However, two more things that I think I should mention anyway, that is, here's my colleague Mirela said something about this hunt, or killing savages, I think that, in the opening and said that under the Constitution he is a savage of the particular interest of the Republic of Croatia and has protection, a special law determines the way in which it can be used and which restricts that use. But the other thing is that we don't do what we're supposed to do through that protection. I mentioned the issue of ponds, birds, and the protection of all these swamp birds, how and maintain their protection if we are not specifically working to maintain these habitats. And that's exactly what we see in that part of what the Constitution is about not doing, and I think the legal provisions should sanction those who don't do it in a different way. The bigger thing is the game issue. He's a savage and we see here in this section when it comes to savages related to this classification that he's a big game, a deer common, a deer shoveler, a deer axis, a deer plain, a giant, a mufflon pig, a wild pig and a brown bear. However, I think the issue of these very deer is one of the major issues in which this special health care should be more pronounced and firstly by the state. The state in the last 10 years, according to what I've got, has not invested in suppressing the methiness of any means whatsoever. I don't know, Croatian forests, but let's say the same thing we know for sure it's Osijek-Baranja County, which annually enters 100 thousand kunas into the treatment of the deer of meth. Why am I saying that? Well, it's because that deer's wealth is the savages of Croatia. The biggest and most important thing we can have and what we have. And what we do through this inadequate protection is that it reduces the trophy value of that deer, that normally we have a smaller flow of money because it shoots off such deer, which is a higher trophy value normally that both its higher value and financial cost it. And most importantly, I think that we are famous in the world for the trophy of these deer and that many elite hunters from the outside come to the territory of Croatia and exactly, I don't know Slavonia etc., where there are these high savages and that through this is what is being said, the question of hunting tourism, the question of the development of certain areas. And for this part, I believe that the state should commit itself differently and better quality, especially in this problem of pollination in deer because, if this continues, if adequate protection is not carried out, we are in some way working against the Constitution where it is said that game is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I think the changes need to be followed, especially here in this section that the changes are related to the arrangements and to the negotiating positions related to this part of the birds. So it's all good, but I should say no more enthusiasm, that is, to approach more of the education of those who conduct that part and who should in extreme terms and realize this kind of development of hunting on the ground and these legal changes that we've been talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33650	Thank you. And we still have one reported. Dear Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33651	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State. I'd just like to mention four things that happen in practice, for example. the limits of the hunting grounds. The borders of two hunting grounds established by the county's management department for agriculture along with associations that touch two hunting sites and with the county's hunting alliance. Since the decision does not satisfy one of the sides considered damaged by this border, and we know the limits of the hunting grounds that are, that it is a channel, a road, if it is a highway wire, to intervene there, and to precisely establish the limit between the two hunting sites so that there are no problems on the ground, and there are. Where people are, people carry hunting and other weapons and there is a fight to establish or mediate the border between the two hunting sites. Counting savages is also a problem on the ground. Those to whom the numbers of more than one piece of deer, deer, goats, rabbits, etc. correspond, and those to whom it does not correspond, I would say vermin in the hunting grounds which is a major problem in the villages of Posavia, pests in the hunting grounds, and that is the nail. The Cagal relaxes the hunting grounds, hunts the young, the deer, the rabbits, and has come, according to our hunters from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Bosnia swam Sava and makes a wasteland in our hunting grounds. No matter who's a concessionist on that hunting ground, you should do organized action... such pests in our hunting grounds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Wild boars. Also in the hunting grounds, for example. from Jasenovac to Stari Gradišca where thousands of hectares of forest are, where the streams, where it is suitable for pigs, are from the south of Sava, and around it are all streams, means water and food, exit and game on fertile parcels, destruction of corn and other conditions of rapid intervention, it would be necessary to determine the damage to farmers, so that he can immediately and quickly plant some other culture that is suitable for that year. And the fourth or fifth thing I've noticed in our hunting grounds, which is gun-tightening, going to the hunting grounds and returning from the hunting grounds to a designated and agreed place led by a hunter or hunter leader in a particular group or a certain group of hunters. By the way, I've studied the changes and additions of this law well. I personally support him and assure you, colleagues and colleagues, that he is extremely well and well made compared to the previous law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33652	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the esteemed Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I would like to thank you for these discussions that we heard today, they were quite extensive, and we can see from the discussion itself that this is a demanding problem. A savage is a living being, a savage moves, and through these legal and sublegal acts, we want that game to be preserved, and also its natural habitats, which, in my opinion or our opinion, means the professions of hunting and forestry, can only be good and quality management. I wouldn't go in alone right now, there's been a lot of discussion. We will consider them all a little bit and see the comments. I would only say about this broom that the state through the Croatian forests has practically saved the population of the Baranja deer. We'll keep doing that. A considerable amount of money has been invested and this population is approaching the number that was too many and I'm saying, we're going to keep working on it, I don't think there's going to be any problems. We've received some amendments and from the clubs and we'll consider them and we'll show ourselves tomorrow at the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33654	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33655	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hunting Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 37. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. You've been delivered an amendment on the benches. I'd like the representative of Mr. Herman Sušnik's State Secretary to be made aware of the amendments. First Legislative Committee on Article 6
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33656	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33657	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2. The Committee on Legislatives shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33658	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33659	It becomes part of the proposal. 3. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy shall, in accordance with Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33660	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33661	It's becoming a composite proposal. 4. Article 10 of the Legislative Committee Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 5. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy in Article 10
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33663	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33664	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Six. Article 14 of the Legislative Committee
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33665	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33666	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 7. Representatives of Vlatka Podnar on Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33667	It's unacceptable. Under the indictment, the authorising officer has not carried out the measures prescribed by the Hunting Law and is therefore subject to criminal provisions. That amendment would make it very difficult to work for the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Hunting Administration, since the litigation takes a long time, and from the indictment proposal there is an apparent violation of the law under concession, under lease,... not carrying out the hunting economic base,... or hunting services, game hunting is prohibited by means and means, and the execution of orders or solutions, and a number of other offences that are subject to criminal provisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33668	Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33669	I'm withdrawing the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33670	You're pulling. This amendment has been withdrawn. 8th of the same representative, Mr Vlatko Podnar, in Article 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33671	It's unacceptable. Because the explanation as well as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33672	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33673	Same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33674	This amendment has also been withdrawn. Thank you. 10th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 41
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33675	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33676	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 10th, Legislative Committee on Article 47
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33677	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33678	It's becoming an integral part. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33679	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33680	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 12th representative of Marina Brkarić in Article 68.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33681	It's unacceptable. A written call was made to that foreign hunter who brings hunting weapons to the Republic of Croatia with the aim of hunting savages. The hunting card allows foreign persons to hunt in all hunting grounds of the Republic of Croatia, while the written invitation allows the introduction of hunting weapons into the Republic of Croatia and that is the rule in the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33682	Mr. Marin Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33683	Here, Mr. President, I'll say I'm not satisfied with the explanation. The intensity of this amendment was precisely to encourage hunting tourism and to reduce bureaucratic formal obstacles such as an invitation. Since the hunter or foreign hunter arriving in the Republic of Croatia has a hunting association card, i.e. the Croatian Hunting Union. I think this would be just encouraging hunting tourism and the arrival of guests in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33684	Who is in favour of this amendment to Article 68, which the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13th of the same representative to Article 83
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33685	It's unacceptable. Since the game is free to live in nature, it is not possible to predict its migration. It is a scientific fact that brown bears and wild boars can migrate from 20 to 50 kilometers daily, and thus it is not possible to claim that the damage is only caused by a game that lives in a hunting grounds. Such a proposal for a legal provision would allow for the manipulation of the damage caused by the savage.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33686	Mr. Marin Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33687	I will not insist on voting on this amendment but it is difficult to compensate for the damage of something that is not on a hunting economic basis. I would ask the Ministry to consider this through the following amendments to the law. ... The damage to something that does not exist in the hunting grounds is indeed unacceptable or unfounded better said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33688	You're pulling back? Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 14th of the same representative in Article 83(5).
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33689	It's unacceptable. Since no previous amendment has been adopted, neither the one directly related to the previous amendment is accepted. It is also unacceptable because the state budget is unnecessarily burdened.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33690	Mr. Marin Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33691	I'd have to give the same explanation. I'd ask the ministry to have that in mind with the next amendment to the law. I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33692	You're pulling back? This amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 15 of the same agent to Article 85
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33693	It's not acceptable because it's... Hunting associations are prescribed by the Association Act and are not subject to this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33694	Mr. Marin Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33695	Well, I'd say the same explanation as that first amendment. We really need to encourage hunting tourism in the Republic of Croatia, I would say that the Republic of Croatia is not recognised exactly as one destination that can give significant income in that part of selective tourism. In Istria alone, the income from hunting tourism amounts to 20 million kuna. I think the proposer of this law or just the ministry should point out in the Hunting Law that hunting tourism is one segment that hunting associations can deal with. Thank you. I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33696	So the amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hunting Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted by a majority of 92 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 4 against, together with the amendments adopted. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to conduct a revision of the text of this law before its publication in the "National Journal". Who's in favour of this proposal please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Unanimity with 110 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33697	We move to item 6 of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on forest reproductive material, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 339 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Dear Herman Sušnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33698	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies MPs and counsellors. Here's the Law on forest reproductive material. What I can say is that the production of forest reproductive material in the Republic of Croatia is a significant economic activity that has not been followed for years by legislation in line with European market requirements. In 2005, the Law on forest reproductive material was passed, which positively affected Croatian forestry and the restoration of our forests as well as the legal regulation of the production and transport of Christmas trees. It was only partially in line with Council Directive 1999/105, and it was necessary to bring it into line with the regulations and decisions of the European Commission adopted later. The Republic of Croatia has significant forest wealth. Forests and forest land occupy 2.69 million hectares, which accounts for 47.5% of the total land area of the Republic of Croatia. The biodiversity consists of over 4500 plant properties, 260 indigenous properties of forest trees and more than 1000 plant communities. In the Republic of Croatia 163 forest seed buildings of indigenous properties, forest trees of economic importance are registered at 5128 ha. Some 1,100 tonnes of forest seed are collected annually, and some 15 million forest seedlings are produced in forest devastations, in 47 devastations on the surface of 476 ha. 23 suppliers are engaged in importing forest reproductive material, and more than 1250 suppliers of Christmas trees are registered. At the end of 2008, the Republic of Croatia joined the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which created the preconditions that forest reproductive material can be placed uninterrupted under the same criteria that apply to suppliers from these markets at the requirements of the European Union, North America, New Zealand and others. The aim of the law is to ensure the production, placing on the market of quality forest material, and to regulate the relationship between participants involved in the production, processing, placing on the market, importing and use of forest reproductive material. This law also defines a single official body for the implementation of specific activities related to reproductive material. It's the Yastrebarsko Forest Institute. Forest reproductive material in four basic categories has been classified. The register of suppliers of forest reproductive material is defined, the issue of the main certificate before placing seed material on the market is prescribed, the register of forest seed objects is defined, the issue of a declaration confirming the originality of forest reproductive material is prescribed, the procedure for importing forest reproductive material. It also introduces an obligation to form a seed-saving plant, a genetic bank and a seed bank. This law will allow for the making of the remaining necessary sublegal acts in accordance with European Union legislation. And what I can finally say is that the adoption of this law will create a clear and simplified framework of production and placing on the market of forest reproductive material that will allow new jobs to be created in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33699	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33700	Thank you very much. At its 17th session on 17 June, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on forest reproductive material with the Final Proposal for a Law to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered the President of the Croatian Parliament by a Act of 21 May 2009. The Committee shall comply with the provisions of Article 88. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed that draft law, which was implemented in the capacity of the home working body and did not object to the proposal from the Proposer on the application of the emergency procedure in its adoption. In the introduction of the proposal, he pointed out that the proposed law carries out the further harmonisation of our legislation in the field of forestry with the acquis of the European Union and, with the Council of Europe Directive, the number of not reading it now is left on the market of forest reproductive material, and with regulations and decisions of the European Commission adopted later. Therefore, the applicant's representative pointed out that this further harmonisation specifically relates to the creation of a prerequisite for further regulation of imports and production of forest reproductive material originating in the countries of the European Union and the OECD. After the opening presentation of the committee's representatives, they supported the adoption of this law for the same reason that it would enable the natural restoration and preservation of the genetic wealth of our forest eco-systems to be closely monitored and legally regulated. In further discussion, it is good that the applicant for this significant area, which needs to be clearly and fully regulated, proposed the adoption of a new law instead of amending and supplementing the 2005 law. In the debate, there is further concern about the placing on the market of forest reproductive material, forest properties and cross-breeds that are derived from genetically modified biological material in view of the attitudes and fences that we have according to the use of genetically modified organisms and all forms and segments. It also drew attention to the fact that it would be good to make and place Christmas trees on the market through the implementing regulation to regulate and manufacture and place on the market the branches of the meal and the like for use in flowering. The debate also pointed out that the production of forest reproductive material in the Republic of Croatia is a significant economic activity that will achieve even stronger results if our legislation is fully in line with EU standards. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and the Water Economy unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on forest reproductive material.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33701	Thank you. The Environmental Protection Committee? European integration? Legislative? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33702	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, state secretary with associates. The Republic of Croatia has significant forest wealth. Forests cover slightly less than 2.7 million hectares, or almost half of our country's total land surface, which is an exceptional potential that requires due attention and care. The forests of the Republic of Croatia are almost entirely natural or semi-natural and satisfactory health conditions, resulting from the long-standing tradition of management on the principle of close nature. Surrounded by increasing socio-economic pressures on forest eco-systems, under the auspices of all present climate change, cross-border pollution and plant fires, there is degradation and deforestation which directly threatens their existence and conservation of biodiversity. It works in this way the modified cell opportunities for most of our forest properties of economic importance in recent years have been the problem of natural renewal of the parent ingredients because the periodicality of fertility in our ingredients is not correct, and the time period to a more abundant or full generation of seeds is gradually extended. Although the management of Croatian forests provides for natural restoration, it cannot always be fully implemented. The most common reason is the lack of crop in those forest ingredients that need to be rejuvenated naturally. Therefore, the restoration of forests is often necessary by artificial means using pre-gathered seed material or fruit material produced from such collected seed material. It is of crucial importance that the origin of forest reproductive material which is being refurbished of forest ingredients be known because the use of genetically poor forest reproductive material or its use on unsuitable habitats results in irreparable damage to forest restoration. These damages are not seen immediately, but after a while, and in some cases after 50 or more years. Such a mistake leaves a mark on the habitat through various adverse impacts on the eco system and the environment and the process of its recovery is expensive and lasting. The production of forest reproductive material in the Republic of Croatia is a significant economic activity which until a few years ago has not been followed by legal regulations in line with the requirements of foreign markets, making it difficult to place domestic products on those markets. In recent years, this economic activity has been slowly reviving, mainly in the private sector and in the ruthless market economy of the European Union, trying to take a position. This route, along with measures of economic policy, is supported by the very quality of forest reproductive material produced from Croatian forests, which is recognised throughout Europe, and for which there is exceptional demand, especially for our well-known Slavonian oak. By adopting and applying the provisions of the 2005 Law on forest reproductive material, Croatian forestry has been positively affected in terms of regulation of the production of forest reproductive material. Until then, a relatively well-organised system by adopting a legal basis in 2005 has been established for equating with the basic criteria of foreign markets, in particular the European Union, which has launched a new system of approval of forest reproductive material and has been a step closer to foreign markets. Meanwhile, new regulations governing this area have been adopted in the European Union, further monitoring the production and placing on the market of certain categories of forest reproductive material, but opening up the possibility of plating forest reproductive material on the European Union market. We must also forget that at the end of 2008, the Republic of Croatia joined the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which created a new moment in this segment, which is that the preconditions are created that forest reproductive material originating in the Republic of Croatia, with certain preconditions, may be uninterrupted and under the same criteria that apply to suppliers from these markets be placed on the demanding markets of the European Union and North America. Under the new circumstances, this bill regulates the affairs and relations between the participants involved in the production, marketing, importing and use of forest reproductive material and creates the necessary preconditions for the smooth trade in forest reproductive material on the European Union market. In particular, it should be pointed out that the proposal for this law protects the indigenous genofonds of our forests, which is the basis for the rich biodiversity that we can praise. The law emphasises the additional strengthening of the surveillance and traceability procedures of forest reproductive material in the processes of production, marketing, import and ultimately use. A single official body responsible for the implementation of specific operations related to the control of production, placing on the market and quality of forest reproductive material shall unequivocally ensure professional supervision of forest material throughout the process from collection to delivery to end-user. By issuing the main licence and declaration of a particular colour, the buyer shall be guaranteed the originality and quality, i.e. the quality of such material, which shall ultimately protect him against any negative consequences which may result from the use of bad forest reproductive material. In particular, it is likely to highlight and welcome the formation of a seed-saving plant and a genetic bank of its own forest trees, which wants negative impacts caused by either anthropogenic or natural awareness factors to the lowest possible level, and to allow the highest possible quality of the restoration of forest ingredients and the preservation of biodiversity wealth. This law will improve the important activity in the area of forestry and enable suppliers to place forest reproductive material on foreign markets with the appropriate quality and related documentation process and to create a clear and simplified framework for the production and placing on the market of forest reproductive material, which will provide an opportunity to create new jobs in this sector and thus increase the contribution to the whole economy. Finally, by adopting this law, we will enable the production of quality and habitat-adjusted forest reproductive material that enables sustainable and optimal management of forest eco-systems and their restoration in accordance with the principles of the protection of forest genetic sources, which is exactly what we can be grateful for our foresters for having such rich forests as rarely in the world. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33703	Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. So here's to not reading the reasoning of the law, I'm going to start with one story, and it's about 20 years ago when I started working together with respected academic Mirko Vidaković, a respected forest expert and genetics expert and forest tree polluter, to raise the seed plantation of the shell oak. Then on one like this, let me say, the intimate atmosphere talked about exactly the problems that this law today and this law solves. For this reason, the SDP club will support this law, for another reason which is about 2.7 million hectares of forest and forest land in the Republic of Croatia and 47%, respectively, over 4.5 thousand plant properties and about 100 plant communities. Because it regulates this problem in forest seeding and deforestation and the pursuit of Croatian forestry that seeds and seedlings must not travel from one part of the country to another, regardless of the same species, because they have a violent impact on the genetic constitution of a species that has grown in a particular locality. The problem of climate change, cross-border pollution and fires is increasingly affecting forests and unfortunately degeneration and drying of forests, especially with us oak and plain dishes. Natural restoration and preservation of the genetic wealth of our forest eco systems are possible only by strict supervision and legal regulations. This shop consists of the use of seed material and fruit material collected, seed material collected in registered seed facilities and its... in forest ingredients, i.e. by planting produced seedlings with the aim of filling the forest ingredients and where it is not possible to restore the ingredients by natural means. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The harmonisation of this law with the Directives of the Council of the European Union 1999/105 EC and the access to the OECD Economic Co-operation and Development Organisation is further regulated by the import and export of forest reproductive material, which allows Croatia to increase its export potential. It's these 4.5 thousand plant properties that I mentioned and 260 plant indigenous species give enormous export potential, and we just have to work on exporting them. In which way Croatian forests or former laws and rules managed through 95% of natural forests to establish 163 seed buildings of indigenous properties with a total surface area of 5 thousand 100 hectares. Then, in the raised clown plantations of the Lužnjak oak, the conditions for the continuous production of the most quality seed of this species are created. There are now about 80 acres of clown seed plantations, which then comes out as qualified, or in the near future, already tested. On average, about a thousand 100 forest seeds are collected annually, and some 15 million seedlings are produced on the surface of about 480 hectares in forest nurserys. Available capacities are multiplely higher than currently used. Therefore, this is precisely the reason, i.e. the possibility of increased production and then increased exports to the European Union, or OECD countries. This law regulates the production and sale of Christmas trees which also becomes increasingly significant activities in forestry have registered thousands of 250 suppliers. What is achieved by this law? The aim of this law is to ensure the production and placing on the market and import of quality and habitat-adjusted forest reproductive material, which enables it to manage the forest eco-systems sustainablely and optimally and to restore them in accordance with the principles of forest genetic resources. The law allows further strengthening of the process of surveillance and traceability of forest reproductive material in the process of production from seed collection, waste production and re-marketing, i.e. planting in forest compositions. This defines a single official body as the Institute of Forests in Jastrebar as responsible for carrying out forest reproductive work. This law and compliance with the European Union divides forest reproductive material into 4 basic categories of known origin, means for well-known trees, then selected with the selected forest seed ingredient, qualified from clown seed plantations, clown or generic seed plantations and tested, bred from clown and seed plantations. This law also defines a supplier who must be registered in the register of forest reproductive material but also defines a register of suppliers for Christmas trees. The main testimony, declaration and certain fear of being immediately known is introduced, meaning according to the classification of forest seed, or fruit material, from which seed object this fruit material is originating. The way we import when and why, then the phytosanitary examination, but also here, I also have to mention what we talked about a few months ago about genetically modified seeds. The conditions are allowed, but I hope that this rule will only be laid down in terms of scientific research, but for those species that do not affect domestic species. Because today's research found that, for example, euro-American poplars have partly influenced the genetic constitution of current, or domestic black poplars in the river Drava and Sava. It's a seed conservatory. Looking at today's climate change and everything that's going on with the climate, that seed savings plant is going to be more and more needed. And she must be taken care of by the official body. But as far as I'm concerned, I don't think it has to have its own spaces, but it can also be in rented spaces, whether Croatian forests or private suppliers of forest reproductive material. A genetic bank is also being introduced to preserve indigenous species in the Republic of Croatia and the Committee for Forest Reproductive Material is being introduced, which is an expert development aid in the field of forest reproductive material, but also further compliance with new European Union directives, but also an impact on them, because forest science in our areas is great knowledge and can certainly affect Europe's forestry. This law is likely to happen something else, which is that it will change in the way you think and in the way you grow the forest, because this way and the qualification of both forest seeds and forest fruit material must also make a change in the way you grow the forest. And thus Croatian forests, meaning state-owned enterprises and also private forest owners. And it may be a law that will help to reflect on the restructuring of the Croatian forests. In Christmas trees, I have to say, unfortunately, only the register of this law is introduced, while the origin of these Christmas trees, seeds and fruit material itself is not defined by this law as what I think it was necessary to mention on the board, and this law defines the sale of Christmas trees from 1 December to 7 January. However, this is also about the use of parts of Montenegrin plants, branches and most branches for flower arrangements, especially around 1 November of the Day of the Dead, but also throughout the year. So I hope that the proposer will do a little more work on any sublegal acts, and that part will also be clean. I repeat, the SDP club will support this law, because I think it is one of the better quality but I must also commend that it did not go to changes and supplements but complete in source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33705	Thank you. An individual debate. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33706	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. Given that this bill allows and improves sustainable management and management of forest eco-systems and that Croatian forests represent a real treasure of biodiversity, I will support the adoption of this bill. It is very commendable that the proposer, which is the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, is seeking to protect the exceptional wealth of biodiversity that lies in our forests, which is said by the applicant himself, in the assessment of the state, I quote over 4.5 thousand plant properties, 260 indigenous properties of forest trees and more than 100 forest plant communities. Croatia is a land rich in forest funds. The total Croatian forest fund extends to about 2.5 million hectares of space. In addition to the vast wealth of the forest fund, it is often forgotten that the quality of the air that we breathe, especially because of the absorbing capacity of the forests of negative air factors, are valuable and rich habitats of today's globally endangered plant and animal species. Many species live in our forests, many of which are protected properties, then endangered properties, sensitive, vulnerable properties, or rare properties, which are naturally represented by very small populations limited to a special habitat. In Croatian forests grow wolf's feet, wild asparagus, fragrant cycles, winter press, common cube, dark red corn, goddess, Croatian feather, star lilies, mountain and common shrub, Tisa, small zimzelen and many other protected and rare species. However, by reading this commendable bill, I could not compare it to the modest sectoral forest law, or amendments to that 2006 and 2008 law, which enabled the manipulation of spatial plans to acquire ownership of forests now owned by state property and which enabled the conversion of forest into building land. I remind you that these amendments allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the body which powers certain forests or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, to separate from the forest economic area and transfer ownership rights to another legal or natural person or establish the right to build and these provisions are contrary to the public interest precisely the diametric opposite of the intention of the bill we are discussing today. In other words, the law that we are discussing today aims to preserve and restore the genetic wealth of our forest eco-systems while amendments to the roof forest law are being made to the systematic reduction of the existing forest fund, which represents an extremely valuable genetic resource and all in order to enable immoral acquisition of property rights over state forests by unscrupulous individuals and groups. I therefore ask the question how is it possible for the same proposing on the one hand to create a roof law that allows the devastation of the forest fund to be made possible in order to enrich individuals with good connections in local and state administration and thus by giving them the green light for the realization of commercial projects such as the construction of entrepreneurship zones while, on the other hand, the same proposer offers a law from the same area but a lower rank which, on the other hand, protects our forest fund and its genetic wealth. I also ask the question why did the proposer not decide to amend the disputed provisions of the roof law which enabled the manipulation of spatial plans and thus wide open the way towards reducing the forest area and by re-purposeing it into building areas and so on. Entrepreneurial zones. Wouldn't it make sense that if we had already decided to protect genetic forest material to also protect the entire forest fund or our valuable forest habitats? I believe that it is the right hypocrisy of the promoter to worry on the one hand about the protection of reproductive forest material and its preservation in the banks of forest genes while on the other hand raising the interests of capital to the expense of devastation of the forest fund enables damage to the public interest by legalising forest licensing through roof law which is one of Croatia's greatest natural resources, the healthy lungs of the state and as such invaluable strategic resources in the uncertain times of global climate change ahead. For this reason, I call on the proposings and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to draw up a new roof forest law which will not as an existing have negative environmental connotations or the protection of the social rights of the local population that will truly represent an example of the implementation of the sustainable development policy that the Croatian Government often likes to call and which will be in agreement and balance with the draft law that we are discussing today. Finally, I also remind myself that the confusion of the idea of today's globally expanded concepts of sustainable development comes from a period of Enlightenment, and it is precisely when it is seen that excessive deforestation leads to a reduction in the growth and destruction of the forest. I hope that this bill that we are discussing today shows that in 2009, the coalition government led by the HDZ has learned to look beyond its little short-term particular interest and finally realized what many Western economists noticed and began to use in the 17th century and that we will not allow the realization of the scenario "I forests kill, right?".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33707	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33708	Thank you. Dear Vice President, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. The vast wealth of biodiversity that we have heard so far spells 4.5 thousand plant properties, 260 indigenous properties of forest trees and more than 100 forest plant communities and all of this is almost entirely natural or semi-natural and satisfying health conditions. This should be thanked and this is the result of a 250-year tradition of sustainable and quality forest management in the Republic of Croatia. We know that the natural restoration and preservation of genetic wealth, that it is possible only by strict supervision and by the law of regulated actions, but we have heard that the 2005 law has also produced good results because it has improved this situation. I would especially like to emphasise here the need, or importance, for the origin of forest reproductive material that is being restored to forest ingredients to be known. Furthermore, on a scientific basis, it is working to improve forest seed production. The capacity now owned by the Republic of Croatia and this is here we have seen here so far that it is 163 forest seed facilities of indigenous properties of forest trees of economic importance for the collection of seed material that extends to the surface of more than 5,000 square meters, here 5 thousand hectares. In particular, I am also thinking about clone seed plantations of nuts oaks, and these capacities guarantee the continued production of the most quality seed for the purposes of domestic forestry, but also opens the possibility of greater export production because, as we know by the end of 2008, the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the OECD created conditions for the smooth placing of this reproductive material on the European Union market, North America and New Zealand. Therefore, this Law on forest reproductive material is also needed in order to provide this activity with a clear framework but also to define rules that allow for the maximum quality of the restoration of forest ingredients provided by the well regulated and seed-saving plant that preserves seed genetic sources and also the genetic seed bank of its forest trees. But it also enables improving this important activity means from the field of forestry so that both tradition and science become a significant economic branch through export products. Quality assurance of the implementation of this legislative proposal, which I consider to be good results, should not be left behind and as we have already heard here, means a new economic dimension of this sector, new jobs, but also what I hold very important that this Republic of Croatia remains, that is, our forests remain most natural, most productively created on natural rejuvenation and indigenous plant species, which certainly ensures this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33709	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33710	We're moving on to the next point. Final draft law on forest reproductive material, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 339, the draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Mr. Sušnik to be read on Article 4 of Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33711	Mr. President, we accept all amendments from 1st to 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33712	Thank you. All amendments from 1 to 11 have been accepted as you have heard. So I am voting the final draft law on forest reproductive material. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority vote with 102 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33713	We go to the following point: - Final bill on amendments to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 343 Proposer of the Law is Government. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, European Integration, Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. The government has submitted amendments and they comply with Article 169. The rules of procedure become an integral part of the final draft law. A representative of the motion state secretary at the interior ministry, Ivica Buconjic, will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33714	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Before us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens with the final proposal of the law. The Government of the Republic of Croatia reached its conclusion at a session held on 12 December 2008 which adopted the proposal for a project to introduce biometric passports for Croatian citizens. In order to implement the project, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration is in charge of the implementation of the project, except for the achievement of technical preconditions, it is necessary to amend the applicable Law on travel documents by Croatian citizens. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens introduces a biometric E passport for Croatian citizens that will be in line with the recommendations of the international civil aviation organisation and the regulation of the Council of the European Union No 2252/2004. on standards of protection and biometricity in passports and travel documents of the exceptional foreign Member States of the European Union. According to the draft law, the Croatian passport will contain an electronic data carrier that also stores the biometric characteristics of the passport holder, facial biometrics and fingerprints of the left and right hand indexes with other personal data. There is also a way of taking fingerprints, a procedure where it is temporarily or permanently impossible to take fingerprints and that fingerprints are not excluded from children under 12 years of age. The paper is that, with the travel document form, data on the personal identification number will be entered. New provisions have also been added to which categories of government officials and officials are prescribed to be issued or can be issued diplomatic and official passports. These issues are now regulated by the rules on diplomatic and official passports brought by the Minister of Internal Affairs and European Integration, but given the content of the provisions of the regulations of the Croatian Government's legislation, it has made it clear that these issues cannot be regulated by the Regulation but only by law. Amendments to the law will facilitate the arrival of a travel document for citizens because they will be able to apply for a travel document at any police office or police station, regardless of their place of residence, while so far they have been able to do so only in the police administration or station where they have registered residence. It is also the age limit from which passports are issued with a 10-year validity date from 27 down to 21. Since it has been observed in practice so far that some persons report a passport missing twice and more times and often it is a short period from issuing a passport to losing it, given the possibility of abuse, it is proposed that the person who in the period of five years... two or more passports new passport issued with a period of validity of one year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposal for this law deletes the common passport as a type of travel document issued by Croatian citizens to a group of at least 5 and a maximum of 50 citizens for one trip to a particular country. A large number of countries do not accept this type of travel document and, therefore, the proposal for a law is abolished. The amendments sent by the Government to the Croatian Parliament are proposed to bring into force the law on 29 June of this year and the transitional period of one year which would issue passports in those police administrations and stations and diplomatic and consular offices not equipped with the necessary equipment according to the applicable law. To conclude, this law creates the assumption that Croatia is starting to issue biometric E passports with 1 July and thus will be one of the few European and world countries that will meet the most standards regarding passport safety as a travel document and this will be another step that will bring Croatian citizens and the Republic of Croatia closer to being exempt from issuing visas for entry into the United States. So this will indeed be a big step and as regards the security of travel document itself as documents of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as well as compliance with the highest safety standards and conditions applicable in the countries of the European Union and the United States. And we hope to make this a big one, I'd say almost a final step, and as for the exemption from the obligation to ask for visas to enter the United States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33715	Thank you. The Committee on Legislatives, chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. At the 57th session held on 2 June 2009, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. However, the text of the final proposal makes the following comments. First on Article 5, it is therefore necessary to review the circle of persons to whom a diplomatic passport is issued because of the additional Article 9b in a way to supplement the provision to individual persons such as the vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament, and in relation to Article 9c of the University rectors, etc. Furthermore, in the additional Article 9e, it is proposed to review the possibility that the diplomatic passport can be issued to other persons as stated, but also with the agreement of the President of the Croatian Parliament. And in Article 30, it is necessary to amend the provision in such a way as to first enter into force this law with a delay in the entry into force of certain provisions thereof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33717	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33718	Thank you very much. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. The whole legislative project introduces biometric e-passports of Croatian citizens is in line with the recommendations and regulation of the European Union on standards of protection and biometrics in passports and travel documents issued by Member States. According to this project, this law primarily defines the diplomatic passport and the official passport as public documents with an electronic data carrier, which stipulates that the travel documents to Croatian citizens will be issued on the basis of the provisions of this law will firstly be equipped with a contactless chip. And secondly, on it, this chip is then entered with personal data written in the visual and machine-readable zone of the passport, so face biometrics and fingerprints of the passport holder. In addition, the law in question provides for the obligation of an authorised legal person who performs the technical design of passports to enter personal data into a passport form and to enter into an electrical data carrier in a safe or secure environment with the provision of technical, personnel, organisational measures to protect personal data. Furthermore, it is a very important provision that, after the entry and electronic entry of data into the passport, an authorised legal person must delete personal data from his records. In the light of the provisions of this Act, it is very important or very important to note that, in order to comply with the provisions of the Data Protection Act, amendments to the provisions prescribed by the provisions under which the personal data from the travel documents, which are managed by the Ministry of Interior, can also be made to other state bodies. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33719	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. The club loses its word. SDP advocates' club, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. However, I must immediately point out, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, as the proposer said here that the costs of implementing this law will amount to around 81 million 468 thousand kuna. Now the question arises immediately, of course, that all good things cost, the question of how much issuing a new passport will cost the citizens. It's something they're looking for at this point and I think, the order is working, that we need to get that answer right now. In fact, if we go back a little bit, several changes in the Croatian passports have been made since the founding of the Croatian state that they have been modernised over time and that this one of the biggest newspapers now required by the harmonisation and our passports, and requires the input of new data, primarily biometric data, facial biometrics, which are stored in the electronic data carrier. And, of course, that's bound to be done with this large amount that needs to be secured in the budget so that this law can be implemented. Here, the proposer on several occasions says that it is necessary to ensure the safety of this data, both of all possible abuses, and so first of all to protect exactly, i.e. to disable the counterfeiting of travel documents, which we enjoyed in the past. And that's certainly to say hello. However, what the Republic of Croatia met with is something that no one has ever responded to today, and this is about the fact that travel documents were given to those who today are on international warrants, who are today on charges or are being brought before many courts across Europe. Not to mention those who are practically citizens of their country of origin, where they live in neighbouring countries. As if there were some kind of unwritten rule that all countries, many countries, I will not say everything, from the former Yugoslavia, so each other in regard to certain persons came together. And that wouldn't even be a problem if, as the press reports show, at the end of the day and from the processes and procedures launched in certain countries, they were often co-workers in organised international crime. How did these people get Croatian citizenship? It has been a long time since, however, this issue may be more current today than when international and border criminality broke down. It's more dangerous than falsifying a document, because this job is clearly done by abuse of public service. Of course it's a matter of corrupting shops. These persons received their passport not from one collegiate body, so they could hide themselves in some decision but become the signature of persons on those passports who received such passports. Not to mention passports issued by certain persons in our diplomatic representations. How could they do so, and who was ever responsible for it? Here and now we've got, here's the media report that the Kutle is now awaiting a verdict stopped at the border. So these are the questions that are raised in connection with the one that we object to this law do not have. But on this issue, you should seriously consider that such things in no particular case are what was once almost a mass phenomenon suppressed. I repeat, the SDP club supports the adoption of this law and we ask for an explanation and a precise answer on how much issuing a new travel document will cost a citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33721	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33722	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law that bears witness to the need for harmonisation not only of the law but also of practice in an extremely important and sensitive area such as the availability of travel documents for travel abroad to citizens of the Republic of Croatia. These changes and additions presented to us by the State Secretary are a very important element, so I would say the approach to our gain, i.e. the practice of already elaborated and entrenched mechanisms of this area of action and the work of the state in European countries, on the basis of modern needs, so I would say the security challenges imposed on all countries of the modern world in particular in the light of the need to combat or prevent terrorism, organised crime, but, in particular, those mentioned by counterpart Antičević Marinović, such as arms trafficking, drugs, people. In the process of Croatia's accession and membership in the European Union, it is certainly also one of the elements of the anti-cipication of the future position of the Republic of Croatia within the European Union, i.e. the behaviour of the Republic of Croatia as part of the future Schengen system, i.e. the demarcation of borders towards the internal parts of the European Union. This mobility of people also carries certain risks, i.e. freedom of movement, and it is certainly extremely important in this respect to harmonise all legal regulations, i.e. the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the regulation, design, use of travel documents. This is more, far more important to us and our needs than to the needs of the European Union itself. Because our negative experience, which had already been said, came from something that we could conditionally call the discretionary rights of individual officials in the system of granting citizenship and using travel documents, has rarely brought Croatia to the stage of shame. We remember that in certain affairs it was discovered in an entirely unexpected way, and in many cases it was extremely incomprehensible to the documentation necessary for the issuing of travel documents, including the assignment of citizenship, and in those cases that ended as international scandals, an affair with a court epilogue as one of the forms of underground activities, the construction of a part of our public apparatus with certain criminal groups, especially in the 1990s. This practice, which we have experienced several times bitterly, should certainly not only stop, but also prevent its re-emergence, and in this sense it is extremely important for the state to know that the responsible institutions of the state know in which way and who can all approve and issue then travel documents so that it does not happen that they serve to cover certain criminal activities and that it turns out that the person who is at the centre of attention in an international criminal content affair has several passports and that ultimately turns out to have both Croatia and is legally issued in a legal manner. These elements introduced as novelty are an electronic data carrier, a popularly said chip that defines new elements such as facial biometrics and fingerprints. They carry along certain risks of possible abuse. It is therefore good that this law also has a norm that defines cryptic protection, i.e. protection of personal data, which harmonizes this law with the Law on the right to the protection of personal data. The abolition of common passports is also a good move in our court, because it is a relic of a time when collectiveism and tourism has been much stronger than it is today and we believe that in any case this measure can contribute to the unification of our practice with the practice of countries that are much more advanced and experienced in this area. Because let's not forget Croatians, Croatian citizens are only 19 years old. However, the Government has also sent us an amendment, or amendment to this law that I would like to comment on. As can be seen from the 1st Amendment, persons who are practically allowed to issue a diplomatic passport, which is the President of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, are also joined by the Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament and members of their family. Since we know that the protocol obligation of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament is relatively limited and that it is solely in the function of interparliamentary cooperation, i.e. the presentation of the Croatian Assembly abroad, in similar institutions and organisations that gather and connect parliaments, it remains unclear to me why this right extends to members of their immediate families because the official travels of the Vice-President of the Parliament do not go to the family. Furthermore, Article 5 which introduces several new articles into this law following the existing Article 9, Article 9c defines who can obtain everything, i.e. all diplomatic passports can be issued. Both Article 9d and Article 9e speak about some other persons who can exercise this right, but no mention of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the European Parliament is made. We're passing a law that I'm guessing we won't change every year. The elections for European Parliament deputies are getting closer, God forbid they will be as soon as possible because it will be a sign that we have become a full member, but in any case, I am sorry that because of the speed of working on the agenda, the club of representatives of the HNS has not been able to give an amendment in this regard, but I ask the Government's representative to consider that you should also be introduced to the European Parliament because they will play an extremely important role, if you want to play a diplomatic role, even though they are not classical diplomats. Likewise, God forbid it happens very soon, we will have our own people who will have the status of EU officials, i.e. they will be employees, highly-ranked employees of the European Commission. It would not be bad to think about them if, already in Article 9c, we so carefully list all those in the Republic of Croatia, some of whom do not go abroad for the entire duration of their term of office, because such is not their job at all. What we should find out, what we didn't even get in the light of these amendments and the addition of the law, and we didn't get in the opening letter of the State Secretary is statistics to see how much the Republic of Croatia's citizen is using on the passport of the Republic of Croatia, how many total diplomatic passports have been issued and how many official passports have been issued. These are not and should not be classified data, but would also testify on the mobility of our citizens, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they would testify on how much the citizens have benefited from the diplomatic passport and the official passport in the past. We know very well from the practice that the provision of this law that says that the diplomatic passport is used only for official travel is regularly broken. It's not every journey of people wearing a diplomatic passport officially. We know very well that it is used for private purposes. In that sense, you should know who got the diplomatic passport, or at least how many people used it. The club of the representatives of the CNS will support these amendments and additions to the laws, and I repeat once again, we ask the applicant if it is possible to consider this issue of including the representatives in the European Parliament on the list of persons covered by Article 9c, i.e. Article 5 of the proposed amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33723	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like first to commend and say that it is good that the bill provides for a provision whereby old passports are valid until the end and to remove the dilemma of whether all citizens will now need to draw new passports after the entry into force of this law. So that's good. Secondly, I am joining my colleague, Beus, who warned him of two, and I will add a third thing that is not well arranged for me, which is indeed a matter of diplomatic passports to family members that are being extended to those where protocolally truly family members do not travel, and I think only with the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and President of the Parliament can be considered an official journey. And others don't. Members of the European Parliament are therefore not covered by the right to a diplomatic passport. I hope this will improve, but what I have also noticed, I would like to ask whether the delegation, members of the delegation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission, are the subject of this Law of the diplomatic passport or not? I didn't find them. Perhaps some state secretary's status or I don't know, something else, but as a category of officials who will follow as these members of the European Parliament should now be incorporated into the law, not waiting for Croatia's entry into full membership of the European Union. I have one ambiguity, a lack of understanding of this provision in Article 19 of the amendment and the addition of the law relating to Article 47, so what does the passport contain? So, among other things, under regular number nine, MBG writes. And under regular number 10. OIB. MBG, I assume, refers to the unique number of citizens. Since the number is set up by a special law and it is called the unique home number of citizens, and not the citizens' home number, I think we should also use the terms that are legal in this law. And so far, the law has written a unique number of citizens. So you changed the name of the identification number beyond the existing law. But what I find strange. If we have introduced a personal identification number recently under a special law and in an explanation of the introduction of a personal identification number, it has been said that it will solve the problem of the unique home number of citizens and that it is hidden, that it must not be entered, for example, into the identity card. So we had all the drama about it and we had to change Croatian citizens' IDs, invent new ones to erase the unique number of citizens. And all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have already received their personal identification number from the Ministry of Finance, I ask why we need to enter into travel documents a unique home number of citizens, i.e. why both numbers and a unique home number and a personal identification number. And lastly, is it not the opposite of the JMBG law itself the fact that it is entered into a travel document if we remain at the stand that it is a secret protected citizen information. We know how much we cost to the citizens when we declared it a secret, because for every more serious transaction, even in the banks, they had to bring confirmations about JMBG from the police. Or this suggests that the ministry is preparing a new ID bill, so JMBG will return to his ID card. So it's a dilemma, but it's a fact that we put JMBG in the passport, and we had to change IDs to leave it out of it. And would you really ask the answer if a new law or an amendment to the I.D. Act is being prepared and whether the OIB will also go to the I.D. card? Which would make it easier for citizens to solve all jobs, because for so long until that OIB is entered into one of their personal IDs, the only proof of the number of OIBs is that I carry with me that written confirmation that we received from the IRS. I think it would be more useful and wiser to have the OIB as a unique number of records available to all authorities on the passport and ID. And the unique number of citizens I don't know who they'll serve anymore after this. So it's a dilemma that I think the government has enough time to clear up, but a change of name should really be brought into line with the law. I believe the Secretary of State can help me in my answers to these dilemmas. And finally, indeed, in this law, so in amendments to neither parent law nor even the Law on Citizenship, I failed to find any provision that would answer me how more than 50% of criminals would east and north of us have Croatian passports. Whoever is arrested in Belgrade has been found to have a Croatian passport. Every arrest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Russia, Ukraine has Croatian passports. What was happening and what did he do so that half of the criminal future would not have Croatian passports? How did they get to them? Why? Whose miss is that? We also remember that a diplomatic consular office disappeared, allegedly stolen if I'm not mistaken for 70 passports. So it turned out that most of them ended up in the hands of organised crime members. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live in Croatia, works in Croatia knowingly must bring a bunch of documents, submit a request, wait for passports to be made, go for it. And these came to the passport so they didn't even have to send them photos to the police, but the couriers delivered to them almost made passports that they used depending on the need. I think these scandals are destroying the reputation of the Republic of Croatia or pointing to failures within the police system. And the final question. Is there a possibility that when issuing passports under these new regulations and it is an OIB issue and it is a question of JMBG if you will insist on staying in the passport, it is not required for citizens to bring in certificates and papers, but rather to submit requests that the police, under official duty, collect them and the figures they must enter inside. Because I remind you of the provision of any other law, no body of the state authority may ask citizens for information or correction available to the other body of government. 'Let's try to simplify to citizens not to collect papers, submit a passport application, a photo, give a fingerprint, and this information that the police can collect, or those who issue passports on official duty, to drag it through the computer into their database to issue a passport. We're saving time, money, and we're proving that e-Croatia wasn't just propaganda, but the fact that it worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33725	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33726	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I join all those who hold that this is a good bill and will support it. This proposal amends and complements the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. In the 1991 Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, he suffered several amendments and additions, as the Croatian passport at the time was not in line with international standards because of the data it contained was not machine-readable and easily forged. In order to reduce the possibility of counterfeiting travel documents, the International Civil Aviation Organisation has developed guidelines for biometric protection of travel documents. By adopting those guidelines, the Council of the European Union has adopted regulations on standards on the protection of the biometrics of passports and travel documents by which it has obliged members to start issuing E passports with data from a number of legible zones by 2006 at the latest, while for the integration of fingerprints on the chip, the deadline has been set by 2009. In order to be able to bring in the project of the introduction of biometric passports in time, it is necessary to amend and supplement the applicable law before the deadline indicated. The proposed law amends the provisions of Article 31 in force in order to prescribe the obligation of an authorised legal person who technically manufactures travel documents to enter and e-mail the personal data provided by the police administration in a secure environment with the provision of technical, personnel and other measures to protect personal data against accidental loss or destruction. Amendments and publication, the amendment of this Article also requires the legal person to use personal data only for the purposes of enrolment and entry into travel documents and to delete them from his or her records after technical production within 30 days. There's only one question that doesn't know who's going to control it. This proposal for a law is also in line with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, the provision that provides for the conditions under which personal data from travel documents conducted by the MUP may also be given to other state bodies. In this law, amendments to the criminal provisions of the applicable law have been made to comply with the provisions of the Criminal Code. Stronger penalties are laid down to allow the sanctioning of persons who are forging personal data entered in the travel document form and the electronic entry entered into the electronic data carrier containing the travel document. It is also about some that the age limit is also lower for those who have 10 years of validity down from 27 to 21 years, but mainly because it is about harmonising with the rules of law with the acquis of the European Union and the acts of the Council of Europe, in any case I think this is a good proposal and that it should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33727	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33728	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. Given the fact that we are discussing today the proposal for a law on travel documents for Croatian citizens, I would like to talk about a specific problem that faces a number of Croatian citizens and citizens with a wave of business people, which is unfortunately not regulated and even touched by this bill. It seems that this time we have not decided to follow European practice although many European countries are aware of this specific problem in these cases help their citizens and citizens by issuing double passports. What exactly is this about? Recently, I was approached by a businessman who often travels abroad to countries such as Israel and Iran, who was recently embarrassed by the fact that Croatian citizens with legitimate reasons cannot own two Croatian passports at the same time. In fact, a gentleman travels several times a year to Israel and is told that this year he will have to travel business to Iran but also some other Islamic countries have realized that he will not be able to enter these countries with a passport containing the seals of Israeli border control. Of course, entering Israel with the seal of Iran’s border control is also not easy or very unpleasant complications are possible. As a Croatian citizen, he is open to the possibility of issuing a new passport, but unfortunately, since the gentleman in the passport has several visas from foreign countries such as Russia, India and so on, he would have to transfer all these visas to a new passport. In addition, if he travels with that passport to Israel before going back to Iran, Syria, Lebanon, and some other countries would have to re-change travel documents, transfer visas and so forth. I therefore believe that this moment when we are discussing amendments to the Law on Passports is the right time to consider how this issue can be regulated legally, a better said problem, which causes great difficulties for some Croatian citizens and citizens, and to consider cases in which, apart from diplomats, the state would allow the issue of double passports and such a wave of special people. I stress this more that this would not be an isolated Croatian practice because many foreign states are aware of this problem allow their citizens to issue double passports in such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33729	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33730	Thank you very much. I'll just try to give any answers to these questions. First of all, I will respond to the representatives of Anticevic-Marinović. It'll be a new price for the passport. She hasn't been determined yet, she'll be taller anyway. We have a calculative producer price of a company that will produce passports, but a final decision on the cost of a passport will be made by the minister by its rules. Whether there will be a possibility of a possible subsidisation of part of the passport price we will see, therefore, would now not go public with the final data on the price of the passport because I can only say about the calculated cost of production, and I say the final price will be determined taking into account the possibility of any subsidisation or perhaps a price fixing lower than the cost of production and this will be resolved very quickly because with 1 July these new passports will have to be issued. However, I think it is very important to point out that citizens, especially the entire public, will not have to change their existing passports after the adoption of this law, even more than they will be able to take out old passports within a year if at a place where they want to take out their passport at their police station or administration they can't apply for a new biometric passport, they will still be able to seek or obtain an old passport at an old price, so I think that this will not be a blow to the standard of citizens, that primarily these passports will be biometrically sought by citizens who have to travel often, who have to travel often to aircraft, since these biometric passports are primarily the standard of air safety and in certain countries. People who don't travel a lot simply won't need to change their passport. What Mr Lesar asked, this form refers to Article 19 or Article 47 of the existing law, it contains data containing records of both the old and the present. Old records of the list,... a lot of records containing JMBG. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It'll be OIB after the new ones. In order to cover each other's data in all the records that exist in the passports, such a solution was made. And what Agent Holly asked me was that I really need to check it out because really one safety standard that no one can have two passports. We also went to this solution so that those who often lose their passports would be sanctioned in a way that those passports would not end up on the black market, so that they would not be misused, that they would not end up in the wrong hands. So we're going to check that practice to see if it exists in some other countries, and if it exists, I think there's no reason for any future changes to the law right now if there's a possibility and such an option to be predicted. In conclusion, I believe that the adoption of this law and, in particular, the issue of passports under this law means that these new passports of biometric E passports will be placed by Croatia in a narrow circle of countries that have highly protected documents, which will significantly facilitate and speed up travel for Croatian citizens around the world, especially business people, diplomats, politicians, and those whose profession and profession is often related to travel. And I especially must point out that Croatia will start issuing second-generation passports. Some Western European countries issuing passports betray first generation passports will be the passport of the second generation of the highest security standard. And I say that I think that this law will really be the basis for saying a new euro in issuing travel documents by which Croatia will certainly be recognised in Europe and the world as the state issuing the travel documents of the highest security standards that will allow Croatian citizens to travel more easily and securely across Europe and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33731	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15 hours with the Final Proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination, then amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship, and amending and supplementing the law on criminal proceedings and the Law on Public Registration and Labour, carrying out work for the general good on freedom and conditional convictions with protective supervision. So, a set of these judicial laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33732	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 343, the draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The government has submitted amendments which are in accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was passed by a majority vote with 102 votes in favour and 1 abstention, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33733	Our colleagues and colleagues will continue the afternoon work of the session. We're starting with the 8th point. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on trainees in judicial bodies and judicial exams, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 351 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The emergency procedure shall apply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms Marina Dujmović Vukovic, State Secretary to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33734	Thank you. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. In July 2008, the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam entered into force in January this year. This law regulates the conditions for the admission of trainees to courts and state attorneys, the duration of exercise practice, the entry into the training professional training programme, as well as the way in which practice is conducted. The law also included professional practice for law enforcement and public records. In order to remove the doubt as to who can be accepted as trainees, i.e. obstacles to the admission to judicial authorities, Article 5(3) of this Act is proposed to comply with the rules on civil servants, since the exercise of the judicial authorities is state officials. Article 6(4) of this Act provides that the Commission for the selection of trainees shall have three members. Due to the scope of the election procedures for the need for more effective work, and to the quality of the tender procedure, an increase in the number of deputies, members of the Commission for the selection of trainees from one to three deputies, is proposed. The current provision of Article 8(3) of the Law provides that a candidate who is not elected as a trainee shall have the right to object within 15 days following receipt of the solution to the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. Since the decision on the selection of trainees is an administrative act adopted in the first instance by the minister, the proposed amendment to this article requires that the candidate has the right to judicial protection by launching a administrative dispute. Article 9 of the Law on trainees determines that exercise practice is carried out in courts and public lawyers. These amendments propose a precise determination of courts and state courts in which exercise practice is carried out, in such a way that practice can be carried out in criminal, municipal, county, commercial courts, and municipal and county state attorneys. Determinations of the performance of part of the exercise practice in another state body outside courts and state lawyers shall be given in the jurisdiction of... the bodies in which the trainee is deployed and the head of the body to which it is referred for the purpose of carrying out the practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will result in greater efficiency in the training process and ultimately enable better monitoring of work. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The law on trainees in judicial bodies determines more precisely the time and manner of carrying out professional practice in court for graduate lawyers employed in other legal matters who intend to approach the conduct of a judicial examination. The deployment of these graduate lawyers to professional practice in court has also been given to the jurisdiction of the President of the Court, as the practice so far has shown that the current legal solution causes the length of the referencing procedure. A strategic study on the creation of a single, objective and transparent criteria for entering a judicial and state-level law profession and the establishment of a public school for judicial officials has specifically found that success in the judicial exam will be evaluated in the selection process of candidates for state school students. It is therefore proposed to add a new paragraph 4 in Article 28 of the Law, which stipulates that the results of the judicial examination will be evaluated in the selection process of candidates. The provision of Article 32 provides for the possibility that trainees in judicial bodies who have carried out at least 70 points of deployment in the vacancy of court or state counsels without conducting a special procedure of reception in the public service. In view of the fact that they have already passed the invitation to enter the state service, and through the training practice, they are fully involved in the performance of these tasks. The new Article 32b provides for an extension of the training practice of trainees in judicial bodies which for specific reasons did not pass the judicial exam in the time foreseen for the duration of the exercise practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33735	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We have two applications for clubs. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33736	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. In fact, it wouldn't be correct not to notice two things about the proposal of this little law. The first is that the law was passed last year and that it entered into force 1. One this year. It's 18 now. In the 06th year, so the law when it went into effect was only 5.5 months, and we're changing it. It is a practice of the Croatian Parliament, but even more legislators of the law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This speaks of the proponent's responsibility for the laws proposed to the Croatian Parliament. Was he considered at the time of his proposal? The second is to commend it immediately after the criticism. The rate of reaction for commendation. If this bill was all designed, if it wasn't designed, and I don't think the same law could appear this year as an amendment to this law. And if this is about serious things, it's about practical training, education of people who should take key positions in the very near future, you know where? In the Ministry of Justice, the judiciary as a whole, so to the courts, the state administration, the judiciary as a state body, and not only in those bodies and bodies, but we prepare them to take responsibility for the whole state, at least partially. If we do not treat this problem with a design, fully designed and that we know the goals we want to achieve so that we can expect good results. Hardly. And I think it's very important to train through practical education and people for the responsibility that awaits them in society. If we add this to continue even with trainees a very high dependence on trainees, employees on the head of state administration, then it is not a good ally for at least state administration independence, it is thought of political independence. In fact, addiction is created through the resolution of the complaint on the admission of trainees to the service of the managers of the body to which it is received. The other thing I'm saying is that I'm left with a sense of evening up the practice that trainees have to go through, whether it's state administration trainees, a court, a lawyer, or lawyers. I just think that at that early stage, we need to train them to see things as much as possible rather than partially or according to specialization. Just two more notes. I believe that the solution in Article 8 is that the Secretary of the Examining Commission and the Deputys in the performance of professional and administrative tasks for the purposes of the examination committee will be determined as compensation by the Minister. Well, that's understood if people are employed at the ministry of any kind. Why should we now separate only that part of the administrative staff and also the professional staff from the system applicable to the state body. And the third thing I'm trying to say is I believe it was accidentally left in the updated article 32a is added Articles 30a. and 32b. so it is determined that the trainers who received 70 points after practice and have a very good score in the practical part of the training practice the head of the body can be employed without a public tender, an internal ad, etc. Why should we not already determine by law that such a trainee is deployed in the body or where he has practiced without competition, without internal or external competition if, of course, there is a job for such a trainee. I hope that the Proposer will correct it himself because the meaning of training and learning, education is to be stimulated to say in advance if you show knowledge, responsibility, ability and even ambition, and you supported it with your knowledge and has a job available, why should we now give a warning like that I will still think about whether I will hire you, and the need exists, is recorded. Despite all of this, we feel that there is a need to equalise the conditions of education for the trainees. There is already an academy that has been discussed on the Committee on Justice and other committees, working bodies. If there's already a mind, ability, time and money we don't waste, it'd be good to use it for all the trainees in the judiciary, either in the attorney's office, or in the courts, as a whole in the judiciary. In addition to these suggestions and comments, the SDP club will vote in favour of passing this law. We think at least an article will be appreciated to add "scheduled" instead of "can" in article 32. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33737	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33738	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State with fellow Members. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination, for the reasons that this law corrects, supplementes or solves some of the misunderstandings or misunderstandings that have been shown precisely in the application of this law since 1.1 this year. As envisaged, this is and is envisaged by the Action Plan on Justice Reform, which has been submitted as a proposal for criteria for opening negotiations in Chapter 23 with the aim of measures ensuring the independence of the judiciary, including measures aimed at the quality of the selection, both by the judicial staff and by other judicial staff, i.e. all those who are professionally involved in the proceedings before courts and other judicial proceedings. Therefore, further insurance, strengthening transparency, objectiveising the criteria for entering the judicial profession, so apprenticeship, then advisory and then ultimately judicial duties. Accordingly, last year this Croatian Parliament adopted a new Law on trainees that regulates the conditions for admission to jurisprudence, the State's Attorney's Office and the mandatory programme of implementing the practical and theoretical part of training during the exercise. And it was precisely the law's intensity that in some way this exercise and this preparation was brought evenly in court practitioners, in the state's attorney's office, in law offices, in public records offices, as well as for those graduate lawyers who work in the economy or work in the state administration or in local self-government who wanted to join the judicial exam. Therefore, this law actually further discusses the institutes that were, for the first time, established in this basic law, which is the evaluation of candidates for entry into the exercise of courts and state attorneys, transparently and objectively... their success with the body of the study, then estimating their success in the written examination of the admissions to training and a structured interview with precisely developed percentages which can be achieved from which of these checks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, as we heard today, a strategic study that has been developed to establish uniform objective criteria for entering a judicial and state-law profession and later to qualify for admission to a state-run school for judicial officials, the strategic study provides for the need for success in the judicial exam to be evaluated, and this is also set out in this law. Therefore, all these institutions that are there, which have been amended, which are listed, I believe should be, that they are good, starting with a good provision that corrects Article 5(3) in such a way that it is in line with the rules on civil servants because the trainees and judicial advisers are up to the start, until the entry into judicial duty, are civil servants, until the number of deputy members of the commission is increased, therefore, whether as deputy or full-fledged members of the commission is increased, but given the more complicated and demanding system of questioning the opportunity to enter the exercise, then it is certainly also the need for the number of people who are going to carry out these tasks to be greater. It is a good provision of judicial protection against the administrative court in relation to the minister's decision on admission. Some details of the technical which are now not necessary to repeat, because we have already heard them all from the proposing representatives. It is also good to specify the time more precisely, in some absolute duration of time that they, the trainees, or candidates for passing a judicial examination from the economy, i.e. from the state administration and local, graduate lawyers and local self-government. In addition, Articles 32 and 32a and 32b of the new articles are then prescribed this possibility, which was also referred to by the representative Leko as the trainees in the judicial bodies who had passed the exam to the vacancy of court or state counsellors. The Justice Committee discussed this and also gave one indication to the applicant to consider introducing this as an obligation rather than as an option. And also reading these two articles of transitional provisions, it was in fact observed that the issue of continuing work in the advisory duties of those trainees who passed the judicial exam by 31 August 2009 per so-called The old system. So here will be the amendment in the sense of adding a new item that would regulate the status of these trainees in such a way that they can also be deployed as advisers if they were evaluated as outstanding in the conduct of the traineeship. Here, for all these reasons, of course by supporting further work and these I would say almost technical changes that have proved to be a misunderstanding in application, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33739	Thank you very much. We're going with an individual discussion. The first is representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33740	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the proposings, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The new law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam applicable from 1 January of this year provides for the conditions for the admission of trainees to courts and state attorneys, the duration of the practice, the entry into the training and professional programme, the way exercise practice is conducted, and the professional practice for lawyers and public notaries, for lawyers with completed university law studies in state administration bodies, local and regional (regional) self-government and other legal persons and persons employed in scientific, teaching, co-operational knowledge that intends to access the judicial examination, as well as the very way of passing a judicial examination. However, during the application of the cited law, certain shortcomings and doubts were observed, in particular, in the section relating to the admission of trainees to judicial authorities and the implementation of exercise practice, which resulted in different interpretations, which made it necessary to access amendments and additions to the law. In order to avoid doubt as to who may be admitted as a trainee in judicial bodies and since the rules on civil servants apply also to civil servants in judicial bodies, it is proposed that no person who has an obstacle to admission to the state service under the rules on civil servants cannot be admitted to the trainee. Then, the number of deputy members of the panel for the selection of trainees in judicial bodies from one to three deputies, the candidate who has not been elected as a trainee other than the objection is increased, judicial protection, the initiation of a administrative dispute is filled with gaps where all practice can be carried out, and the municipal, county, commercial and infringement courts as well as municipal and county state attorneys are taxed. It is also proposed to exempt from the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice when performing part of the exercise practice in other countries in a body outside the courts and state attorneys and to place in the jurisdiction of the head of the judicial body in which the exercise officer is deployed and the head of the body to which it is referred for the exercise of practice. More specifically, the time and manner of performing professional practice in a court for graduates, employed in other legal matters that intend to access the judicial examination and the allocation of those to professional practice in court shall be excluded from the Justice Minister's work and shall be placed in the jurisdiction of the President of the Court. By applying the provisions of Article 21(4) of the Law so far, which stipulates that a candidate who has obtained the conditions for passing a judicial examination by missing a period of 30 days completely loses the right to take a judicial examination, it shall be prohibited to exercise his acquired rights, which is why the erasure of this provision is proposed. Furthermore, the proposed amendments and additions to the law of success in the judicial exam are worth the selection process of candidates for state school students for judicial officials. In addition, it is prescribed that trainees in judicial bodies who have carried out at least 70 points of work schedules at the vacancy of court or state-law advisers without conducting a special procedure of admission to the state service, as well as the possibility of extending the exercise practice to a trainee in judicial bodies after the time limit prescribed for the duration of the exercise practice, if there are justified reasons, but for a maximum period of 6 months. The decision to extend traineeship practice shall be adopted by the Ministry of Justice in charge of the affairs of the judiciary on the delivered opinion of the Head of Justice. In view of the above, and respecting the need to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33741	Thank you very much. Next to discuss the order, MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33742	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam corrects the obvious errors of the applicant, because this law, which was passed, as it stands here in the assessment of the situation and, in 2008, came into force on 1 January 2009, and is not yet fully applicable. Then what are we talking about? We're talking about a cream opera that requires money and expense due to oversight and error. But that's not the end of it. Well, even here in this proposal, it stands only in the assessment of the situation, but still inadmissible, on page 2 says: in this Article 32.b, an extension of the training practice of the trainees in judicial authorities who for legal reasons did not pass the judicial exam is prescribed. Does that need a comment? So, the Justice Department should be an example of how proposals are submitted and like this... with these technical mistakes that we here now spend taxpayers' money discussing this bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of what this is about, or what changes occur, are not any new circumstances in society that were not known then. And now it's done without any light as something perfectly normal, but that's what we're still boasting about. It's not one serious job and it doesn't make a good impression. And the government rejects the SDP's proposal to change the Penal Code that requires non-payment of wages as a criminal offence, as it says frequent changes to the law would cause legal uncertainty. For whom legal uncertainty? To con men and thieves, to enjoy that prey? And on the other hand, without even saying shame and dawn, it comes here in front of a plenary session with a bill like this, or a bill that we're going to discuss right now. There are so many notes that are more important than what I'm about to say. Namely, as it enters judicial bodies, judicial institutions, i.e. in courts and state attorney's offices a few years ago the scandal caused the reception of trainees with sufficient grades at the expense of those who passed with a very good or even with a medal. After the 2005 scandal, which was widely written by our media and in detail, the sufferers suffered so that the candidates had no insight into the documents of the other candidates, nor was it seen a score on their own scores. So lately, we don't even know how the trainees were received, or it wasn't known to the public at all. It may have been all right, but transparent in that sense that it was obvious and to the public's insight, it didn't happen. And all of this was in preparation for the adoption of this Law on Exercisers, which, with full right, bears the label P.Z.E. to comply with European standards, i.e. how this was initially said to be as objective as possible. If you enter the way, or if the trainee becomes a person with sufficient success, and there were candidates with better success, that person can become a judge tomorrow. That's the kind of person who became judges. Would any of us like to be tried by such a judge? No, I'm sure he wouldn't. For the way he entered he bound him to those who thus appointed him to be obedient and not to judge according to his conscience, by the Constitution and by the law, but by the expectation of someone being least liked. And that's what the public knows. When such things don't happen, I believe that the good part didn't happen, but they create one serious doubt, but at the very beginning. There were candidates who couldn't have seen other candidates' grades. In 2005, it was the case that these candidates who knew their private knowledge because they were colleagues at the university and when they were sued they would get an answer if you made a complaint or used your rights you would never become trainees. So this law is so really necessary and it's really a shame that it hasn't been passed in such a necessary way with a lot of conscience, a lot of responsibility. Because if all he himself brings is creamy, and so precise are the criteria for selecting the trainees, then the promoter himself is nevertheless the impression that all this has been extorted not out of one's own desire. Because even if such behaviour follows such a law, it must already be an antiquated and behavioral encounter with such a good legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33743	And last reported for the hearing, MP Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33744	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, here is the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination proposed to be adopted under an urgent procedure, given that it is a law which, among other things, domestic law is aligned with the acquis of the European Union. Although the law came into force on 1 January of this year in order to remove certain doubts and ambiguities relating to the admission of trainees to judicial authorities and the implementation of practice, it is therefore proposed to approach its amendments and amendments. The law itself passed in the context of judicial system reform for the reason that until then the applicable law no longer met the needs of the Croatian judiciary, particularly regarding the professional training of judicial officials, training graduates as practitioners in judicial bodies. Therefore, courts and state attorneys, and it was necessary to modernise and regulate the question of obtaining the conditions for passing a judicial examination and the way it was passed. Therefore, one of the objectives of the law was to enable the quality and full education of judicial practitioners through valorisation of objective standards of training that would allow future judges and state lawyers to obtain the necessary expertise and skills to carry out day-to-day jobs and tasks. Thus, this law is in line with Article 1 so as to comply with the rules on civil servants, so that it governs who cannot be accepted as a trainee. It is also proposed to increase the number of deputy members of the Committee for the Selection of Trainees from one to three. A candidate who has not been elected as a trainee against the minister's solution is being afforded judicial protection by launching a administrative dispute. In addition, it shall be specified in which courts and national attorneys may exercise practice. It shall be exempt from the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice to make a decision on the exercise of part of the practice in another State body outside the courts and national courts and to put in charge of the head of the judicial authority. Provisions are deleted which are prescribed to apply for a judicial examination after the candidate has obtained the conditions. It is also prescribed that the achieved success in the judicial exam will be evaluated in the selection process of candidates for members of the state school for judicial officials. Therefore, given that these amendments and amendments to the law improve the pronunciation of the applicable law in certain provisions of the law, I will certainly support its adoption. Therefore, the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33745	Thank you very much. Since there are no more applications for the debate, the floor was also requested by a representative of the proposing state secretary Dujmovic Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33746	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the new Law on Trainers in 2008 was passed after a long 30 years and indeed this law introduced significant improvements and great progress was made precisely in an objective transparent manner of reception, also in passing judicial exams. I thank you for the debate and for the amendments to the Legislative Committee, we accept the amendments to the Legislative Committee on Articles 2 and 8. Also, Ms Lovrin's amendment to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33747	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this proposal when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33748	We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination, the emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 351, the legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, representative Ana Lovrin and representative Josip Leko. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment committees and representatives of Ana Lovrin and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft of the law and I would ask Ms. Marina Dujmović Vukovic to show about the amendment of Mr. Josip Lek's representative to Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33749	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33750	Thank you. This amendment has been accepted. I therefore put to the vote the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that this bill has been adopted by 104 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33751	It is next item - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 352 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice, while the reports were received at the session. And on this final proposal, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I assume that the proposer's representative wishes to further explain the proposal. Once again, State Secretary Dujmović Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33752	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Therefore, the Law on Lawyership in Article 63(1) states that Croatia is a law enforcement chamber, lawyers, law firms in whose offices the trainees work to care for professional and practical training of trainees as well as for the adoption of the rules of the Code of Law. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam is prescribed that law enforcement practitioners must conduct a theoretical part of professional education for at least 150 hours according to the programme adopted by the Croatian Bar Association and which must comply with the Justice Academy programme. This is one of the conditions for passing a judicial exam. This article also provides that the programme of training of law enforcement practitioners and the duration of training practices is governed by the Law on Attorneyship. In view of the above, it is proposed to amend Article 63 by prescribing the obligation of the Croatian Chamber of Law to adopt a mandatory programme of professional training of lawyers for the purpose of passing a judicial examination, which must comply with the Justice Academy programme of the Justice Department and the duration of the training practice for obtaining the conditions for passing a judicial examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33753	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, representative of Danica Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33754	Dear Madam Vice-President, dear Madam Secretary with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we heard briefly in the State Secretary's report what brings about the amendment and addition of this Law on Attorneyship to the amendments proposed by the committees. The HNS Club will support the addition and amendment of the Law on Attorneyship. I wouldn't say it again. These are very short items brought out by the State Secretary, so here's a short time, the HNS Club will support this amendment and the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33755	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33756	Thank you, Madam Vice President, honoring State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that the SDP club also supports amendments to the Law on Lawyership. But it should also be said, as I said in my debate, in this previous law. We need to let the public know what we're talking about here. To change the Law on Attorneyship which, the last amendment was recently. This year. And now we're changing it again because something's gone wrong here. We act like drunken billionaires in times of recession, instead of saving in every way possible. Never mind, we forgot something, so we'll change tomorrow. So who does it? And now the next law is the same. There, as many as 100 articles change. The law needs to be applied, and then we remember, and we didn't do it right. And without any... We're changing it now, and we're not keeping it public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At least courtesy does have to say, it's missed. Here you see, and that's kind of what's going on here. Thus, the Law on trainees in its Article 17 said whether, and the obligation of the education of lawyer trainees to be designated and to carry out a legal chamber. It was brought in in 2008, just fine. After that, the Law on Attorneyship was also amended in order to bring the Law on Attorneyship into line with the Law on Exercise. So in 2008 and 2009, we changed that law. It is therefore not true that we are now amending the law in order to bring it into line with the Law on Exercise in Judicial Authorities because the Law on Lawyership that had to be done to them followed. This law changes what the government failed to do a few months ago. And we warned on a whole series of things. So, even with this law when the Law of Attorneyship was passed that it should be prescribed, it should be specified precisely that it is done by the Bar of Law, although good interpretation could be interpreted as such. Of course, it's better to do this the way these changes are now done. So here's an opportunity to make it public so things like this shouldn't happen anymore. Of course, no law is a sacred letter and that everything bad needs to be fixed by that old Latin "Erat Corige." However, to do so because of his life, practice has shown that some things were not well solved, that they were not precise. It hasn't even taken effect yet, we're changing it because this job hasn't been done right since the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33757	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33758	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is the introduction, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this bill. Namely, the amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship are prescribed 3 very important elements related to the programme of education of law enforcement practitioners on the one hand, and on the other hand, the duration of the exercise practice. The first of these elements refers to prescribing Croatia's obligation to adopt a mandatory programme of professional education, lawyer's trainees, and all in terms of the possibility of passing a judicial examination. The second essential element, therefore, is that this mandatory programme must be brought into line or must comply with the Justice Academy programme of the Ministry of Justice. And the third or third element, the duration of the lawyer practice for obtaining the conditions for passing a judicial examination, shall be consistent with or identical with the provisions of the Law on trainees in the judicial body and judicial examinations. So these are the solutions that absolutely need to be supported, so the final draft law on amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship. However, there are also two questions that arise during this debate that I believe will be removed or resolved. Namely, the chamber establishes a mandatory programme of training of law enforcement officers to pass a judicial examination in accordance with the Justice Programme of the Ministry of Justice Academy. The question is, what if he's not consistent? Who in this situation is adjudicating? And perhaps you should consider another statement, a legal expression, to eventually remove that inaccuracy. The second question that arises for us, and regarding paragraph 5, so that the chamber will define the way in which the professional training of the trainees will be financed by a special regulation. Without a doubt, reading this law would be a good time to set a deadline. So, within what time the chamber will bring that special rulebook. In line with everything exposed not to repeat ourselves, it is indeed a brief law. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Final Proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33759	Thank you very much. We also have two applications for an individual hearing. The first is representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33760	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on trainees and judicial authorities and the judicial examination in the provision of Article 17 requires lawyers to conduct a theoretical part of the key education for at least 150 hours under the programme adopted by the Croatian Bar Association and which must comply with the Justice Academy programme in order to meet one of the conditions for passing a judicial examination. In view of the fact that the existing Law on Lawyership does not provide for this tax, and that the provision of Article 63(1) requires that the Croatian Bar of Lawyers, Lawyers and Lawyers' Associations whose offices are obliged to care for the professional and practical training of trainees as well as for the adoption of the rules of the Code of Lawyers' Ethics, it is proposed to amend and supplement the Law on Lawyers' Law in such a way as to prescribe, in Article 2(2) of Article 63, the obligation of the Croatian Bar of Law to adopt a mandatory programme of professional education of lawyers for the purposes of passing a judicial examination which must comply with the judicial academy programme as well as the duration of the legal practice for obtaining the conditions of a judicial examination in accordance with the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and judicial examination. For this reason, and given that this legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, I support the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship, as amended by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33761	Thank you very much. We also have the application of Agent Anne Lovrin. Is he here? He's here. You have the word of colleague Lovrin. Thank you very much. My colleague gave up. The proposer, a representative of the legislator, State Secretary Dujmovic Vukovic, will give the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33762	Thank you for the discussion. And amendments to the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice are accepted. Article 1 of the Legislative Committee, and Article 1 of the Legislative Committee, as well as Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33763	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33764	We move on to the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 352, the proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Justice and Advocate Ana Lovrin. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would ask Ms. Marina Dujmović Vukovic to declare the amendment of Ms. Anne Lovrin to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33765	It is accepted but in a way that in Article 2, the following articles reads: "To date items 3, 4 and 5 become items 4, 5 and 6."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33766	Mrs. Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33767	It's okay. Lapsus chalami was.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33768	Thank you very much. He's accepted. I therefore vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was passed by a majority vote with 102 votes in favour, no abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33769	We're on the 10th wheel now. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 350 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. And you received reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. State Secretary Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33770	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The law on criminal proceedings shall apply in full in the cases referred to in Article 21. The law on the corruption and organised crime control office since 1 July 2009. The new rules of the Criminal Procedure are aimed at making the proceedings more effective and faster to ensure the rights of the defendants and other persons in accordance with international standards for the protection of human rights and the provisions of the Constitution. Amendments and additions to the laws are aimed at achieving these objectives in the work on concrete cases, and they are proposed because the provisions of the law are practically checked in systematicly organised and implemented educational processes and workshops on which public lawyers, judges and police participated for the first time, and through simulations are conducted by criminal proceedings under the new Criminal Procedure Act identified possible obstacles to the effective conduct of criminal proceedings and indicated directions for possible improvement of criminal proceedings. Because the need to remove inappropriate solutions and to regulate existing provisions of the law has been observed, and some of these issues have also been pointed out by remarks and proposals made after the law was passed. Because there is further development of the concept of modern criminal proceedings, especially through the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, but also new rules in European national systems according to which criminal proceedings on the one hand must comply with the basic common standards of regulation, particularly international human rights standards. On the other hand, it must be such that it enables communication and cooperation with other systems. Because the process of extending criminal legal cooperation between European countries is under way, especially among the Member States of the European Union, and thus the basic source of the rules of criminal proceedings must be arranged to enable more effective cooperation. Because it is necessary to optimally comply with the texts of the laws in question. Important substantive changes and additions of the Criminal Procedure Act relate to the following articles. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on criminal proceedings has been amended in such a way that evidence obtained by the application of medical interventions or by giving resources affecting the will of a person in the exercise of evidence by force, threat or other means of coercion cannot be used in criminal proceedings. So it's always bad evidence. Such evidence cannot be used in the procedure nor in accordance with Article 10(3). The law on criminal proceedings which do not regard illegal evidence as being obtained by violation of the law and freedom in the procedure of serious forms of criminal offences for which regular proceedings are carried out and where infringement of the right in view of the strength and nature is significantly less than the severity of the offence. However, with such evidence, it is not equal to deception because obtaining a false statement is a matter of a particular case that has to be appreciated by the court. According to that sentence, the deception was left out. Furthermore, the provision of Article 17 has been amended. The law on criminal proceedings relating to the initiation of criminal proceedings for all criminal offences, so that it is clearly defined that the initiation of criminal proceedings is linked to the confirmation of the indictment or other act of the court. So, one exception to which the case was not initiated by the court's decision but by the state's attorney has been deleted. The initiation of the criminal proceedings relates to the occurrence of certain consequences under Article 17(2), which is why the regulation of the issue is so much more important from the point of view of the rights of the defendants. In Article 38, the catalogue of the rights and responsibilities of the State's attorney was specified and complemented so that, in one place, all rights and responsibilities of the State's attorney were introduced in full and systematically. It should be recalled that the state's attorney is in charge of a prior procedure. Article 64 complemented the catalogue of the defendant's rights in criminal proceedings in such a way that as the right of the defendant, it was introduced that the defendant was present in the legal cases prescribed by the defendant. It should be pointed out that the catalogue of the defendant's rights was first introduced into Croatian legislation and therefore has special importance and covers all the rights of the defendants in the criminal proceedings. Furthermore, the addition of Articles 64 and 74 of the defendant and the defender has given the right to copy and record files and cases which serve as evidence in criminal proceedings, which is an important means of achieving good defence. In addition, Article 109 has been amended. The CAP, which regulates the way in which the arrester is treated after reference... in which it must be brought to the prison supervisor. [[The speaker is not understood because of technical interference.]] The first news is that the defendant doesn't necessarily have to bring in the same person who arrested him, but a police officer, so any police officer. However, what is particularly important is the obligation of a state attorney to interrogate an arrestee within 10 hours of his surrender to the prison supervisor. There are also specific cases where the detainee has to let the arrester go free. What's new is the introduction of a reason for the arrester to be released unless it's within 10 hours of his surrender to a prison supervisor being questioned by a state attorney. The term of the home prison was replaced by the term of the incarceration and Article 121. The law on criminal proceedings has been amended by a provision on jurisdiction to monitor the execution of a prison in a home in such a way as to ensure that the supervision is carried out by the police and the Ministry of Justice. Following the entry into force of the Prosecution Act, it is expected to be achieved through regional testing offices. The basis for the determination of an investigative prison in Article 123(4) has been updated in such a way that it is determined that the investigation prison can be determined if it is necessary to carry out the procedure uninterrupted due to the particularly difficult circumstances of the conduct of a criminal offence for which the punishment of a long-term prison is prescribed. It is also defined that it can be determined or extended if the maximum length of the investigation prison has already expired. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The CAP, which has now been designated for the threat of recurrence, the completion of an attempted crime or the conduct of a criminal offence that threatens to be notified through the police of the victim of a criminal offence. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The CAP has been amended in accordance with the Constitutional Court's ruling, the right to be deprived of liberty which it deems unlawfully deprived or restricts its right to address the President of the Court who, if necessary, will visit the prisoners and without the presence of a judicial officer to examine how the prisoner is fed, satisfys the other needs and how he is treated, and takes the necessary measures to address irregularities observed in this regard. Article 231 has also been amended in a way that, instead of the provisions on the confidentiality of the investigation so far, it has been introduced that the pre-confirmation of the indictment is not public. Any person who learns the content of the evidence store before confirming the indictment shall be obliged to keep it a secret fact or information they have learned on that occasion. The body taking the evidence store will warn the persons participating in the evidence shop that it is a secret crime. Article 285 governing the release from the obligation to bear witness has amended the way in which, in accordance with the Media Act, journalists and editors have been set free from the obligation to bear witness to sources of information and information they have learned in the performance of their profession and have used in the regulation of means of public communication except in cases of criminal offences against honor and respect committed by means of means of public communication and in cases prescribed by a special law in which the media law is considered. Furthermore, a significant change is in Article 404 where the new provision of paragraph 3 is the possibility of the hearing being held in the absence of the defendants if the proceedings are conducted for a criminal offence for which a sentence has been prescribed for up to 12 years and the defendant who has been called neatly did not have access or could not be served because he has changed his address and has not informed the court or apparently avoided the call. However, the possibility of holding a hearing in the absence of the defendants exists only if he was previously warned of this possibility and if the indictment was obvious in the presence of the defenders. Finally, Article 419 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for the provision of information in accordance with Article 419 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of personal data and on the protection of personal data and on the protection of personal data and on the protection of personal data and on the free movement of personal data and on the free movement of personal data and on the free movement of personal data and on the free movement of personal data. The other facts are determined only on the party's initiative, given that the previous proceedings are conducted by a state lawyer, so the party, the limitation of the inquisition maximum is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33771	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mrs. Lovrin, the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33772	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. At the 30th session held on 17 June 2009, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure with the final draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 8 June 2009, with a proposal to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The Committee discussed the draft law as a parent working body. In its opening statement, the applicant’s representative pointed out that the new Criminal Procedure Act is being fully applied in the cases referred to in Article 21. The law on the anti-corruption and organised crime office. The new rules of criminal proceedings are aimed at effective and rapid proceeding with the provision of the rights of the defendants and other persons. Amendments are proposed because the systematic implementation of education and workshops has established that there are obstacles to the effective conduct of the procedure, that there is a need to remove appropriate solutions that criminal proceedings must comply with international standards, that compliance with the relevant laws is necessary. The members of the board unanimously supported the adoption of a new law, noting that these amendments and additions are affecting a large number of articles and that it is not good to propose changes to such extent that the law has been adopted. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure provides the following comments, proposals and opinions. In support of the applicant's intensification to fully and accurately review the rights and duties of the State's attorney, it is proposed to review point 3 in the section where these duties are determined. It is proposed to review the proposal in Article 10(1) which deletes the word "deaf-blind" because it is a special category of citizens who have combined damages. This Regulation shall enter into The proposal proposes to harmonise the expression "not public and secret" which is contrary to the description of the criminal part of the breach of the confidentiality of the data referred to in Article 305. Penalty law. The opinion is that in the proposed provision, it should delete the words which they learned at the time to make it clear that the obligation applies to all persons who in any way have knowledge or come to the knowledge rather than to the persons who participated in the procedure. In Article 117 of the proposal, it is proposed to review the sentence of an investigative prison at home in order to bring it into line with the wording of the Prosecution Act. Following the discussion, the Committee on Justice decided with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act with the following amendments. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Reason: the word "justice" shall be deleted for the purposes of equating the text with the provision of Article 4 of the law on the European Court of Justice, so that the statement shall be uniform in the whole text of the law, because somewhere in the existing text is the expression of the European Court of Justice, somewhere in the European Court of Justice. Amendment 2 to Article 73 of Article 345 adds at the end of the sentence, which reads: "If the defendant has a defendant, the defendant is also delivered to the defendant", the word "indictee" is replaced by the word "indictee", because it is a person who is not yet indictee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Reason: Article 105 of the proposal relating to Article 504 is deleted. The law on criminal proceedings by adding point 4(1), Article 504 would extend the possibility of renewing the proceedings in the absence of the defendants. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The expropriation of Article 118 is proposed, on the grounds that the consolidated, therefore, article is proposed that the Legislative Committee draws up a consolidated text, because the consolidated text does not affect the content of the law and, by legal nature, is not the law as the Constitutional Court has said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33773	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33774	Thank you, Madam Vice President, honoring State Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. By listening to Mrs. Secretary of State who explained these changes, we listened essentially to ourselves talking to that same secretary, or to government representatives just a few months ago, all of this you heard from us, from the SDP Club, and in individual discussions. None of this was appreciated and we now come 13 days before the entry into force of this Law with amendments to the 119th article. As early as 2002, here I was as minister, then I formed a working group to amend and pass this law that would not contain a correction. So it's been seven years since then, it's supposed to be a vaccio legion because it's about significant changes, a whole other concept than we've been used to here for decades to the concept of criminal proceedings, and now since 2002 we've been in this situation that 13 days after the entry into force, you've been changing 119 articles. It's something that's inadmissible. Furthermore, it is inadmissible to cross the truth and to use the untruths of this reasoning, i.e. an assessment of the situation and basic issues that need to be regulated by this law and you jump into your own mouth. The government itself said that she spent her education when the law was passed, 15 / 15 The 12th was passed with state attorneys and judges that you would now be here in the assessment of the situation and in the light of the law, the bill argued that some issues appeared open after conducting education with judges and state lawyers. So, the truth is that, before that, no education had been conducted and that, of course, people, judges, state lawyers who would have to apply this law tomorrow had stopped and asked for some things. First of all, they ask about what we have been saying here, we have submitted the amendment that inadmissible evidence, illegal evidence that has been obtained in an illegal manner by force, threat, extortion, torture, you said no, that's fine. Now you explain it to all possible European conventions on the ban on torture and torture, which we warned you about, you disobeyed. And now you're convincing us that it's necessary to change that. Well, you suggested such an illegal and anti-constitutional norm, we warned you about it, you got the amendment, you kept quiet. Now you come to us with these changes, 10 days before this law should come into force in this one of its most important parts. And nothing to anyone. You're keeping quiet about the fact that this law is in the Constitutional Court, to the assessment of constitutionality precisely because of this norm. That approach is not a good approach. We warned, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, and individually, that a debalancing was created between the defence and the indictment. You said it wasn't like that, and now we see that a whole series of provisions have been respected by the Attorney's Office. The media warned you that it was unacceptable for them to answer for a breach of secrets when it came from the participants. Why would they find the source? You refused that at the time. That's what we discussed here and talked about. The media wrote about it every day, you kept quiet. And now you're saying that it later turned out, that later you heard somewhere. So don't be false, it doesn't seem like state bodies or their representatives. It can be wrong, so of course whoever's wrong is human. But out of one trouble, you got yourself into trouble, out of that trouble of lying to get out is not a good approach and is not allowed access. We've been talking about how the trial will begin for the defendant. How's that gonna get the state's attorney to start a trial? The official procedure is initiated by confirming the indictment, which we have also warned you about. And now, in your explanation, you claim that it really is necessary for all procedures to be uniform regardless of what preceded them to begin in such a way. So, the whole series, all over, there's nothing that hasn't been mentioned here that you haven't been warned until now here for a few months, I say, after that you come up with these extensive, extensive changes that are certainly welcome because they specify things. In fact, it's about the most serious law of a country. In addition to the Constitution, civil law or the Civil Procedure Act and the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act, these are the fundamental laws of a country. This is the law, the organic law, and it is normal that there is a large vacatio legion which has already been shortened by the delay of 15.12., so just before the constitutional break, so this vacatio legis has now been shortened, and now only 13 days. It's something that's really saying that we all need to imagine ourselves over this. Seven years is passed and this law is being prepared. Seven years. It means there hasn't been anything done on him in years, and there's always been talk of doing something. People in the task force have changed, too. There he was no longer allowed to be the famous professor of criminal proceedings, Davor Krapac, and imagine an explanation that he became the judge of the Constitutional Court, and then he can no longer, should not be in the working group for the making of this law. So for years, nothing has been done and we've been brought into this kind of jam. 13 days before the entry into force we have 112 articles changing. And where is this man's safety? The defendant, who could be innocent? This speaks of what the government is saying, what they think about the position of man and his fundamental rights in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33775	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33776	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, with the final proposal for a law. Exactly what we just heard was that it was the adoption of a new Law on Criminal Procedure, which is indeed one of the most important, I would say, the law in every country, organic law. It is true that it has been almost seven years, so there have been past mandates of different governments, that the law has been being prepared, but that not much has been done by 2007, but only in March 2007. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the principles where guidelines for the development of new laws were laid down. It's true that people have changed, too. Not because of some particular reasons, simply because it was just a matter of speeding up the work on this law because it was high time to pass. Some in the task force were not ready for this acceleration, thinking more time was needed. Well, somebody's probably gonna say it now, so of course it took more time because then the text of that law would be that we shouldn't change it right now. But I claim that for another three years it worked on that law that the situation would be very similar. However, in December 2008, the Law on Criminal Procedure was passed, one of the fundamental laws, and for us in Croatia the most significant newspapers in the system of criminal legislation. This law should and should ensure and guarantee a balance between the effective protection of society against the most dangerous attacks in such a way as to ensure that perpetrators of criminal offences are found, processed and based on laws punished and at the same time ensure that the principles of human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens are respected in the conduct of criminal proceedings. By passing this law, Croatia also met part of the conditions of negotiating criteria in the process in terms of speeding up procedures and reducing the number of pending old cases. The new criminal law rests on the reform of the criminal proceedings in the direction of conversion from a mixed type of criminal procedure to a criminal procedure of the acoustic type. This transformation has led to conceptual changes in many procedural institutes. We were also aware at that time that the future abandonment of the inquisitor maximum would be the most difficult to accept as judges due to years of different practice. And it is true that it was then warned of something and it is true that then there was an amendment intervention in that text of the law. We know that every ad hoc and amendment intervention then results in possible discrepancies, the mutual discrepancies of the provisions of one legal text. Therefore, that amendment's intervention was relativised, this acoustic principle, in line with the principle of equality of forces, parties in the process. But what was first and foremost this law should have led to a faster and more effective processing of all perpetrators of criminal offences. During the drawing up of this draft and the first bill, a broad professional public participated, including practitioners, judges, state lawyers. The principles have been implemented, a lot of research, but here we are today, I would also say with little objection to a number of amendments to this legislative proposal that we made in December last year, but it is also better that with the day of application of the first, or the first segment of that law for so-called. We have as well prepared the legal text as possible for the legal certainty of citizens to have a text and a law that is more quality if it can be improved at the very beginning of the application. So, let me not explain this widely now because the president of the proposal systematically explained the reasons and why certain provisions are changing. I think it is particularly important that it is of course other than that this law should be brought into line with the texts of the laws in question, and here I mainly think of the Law on Police Affairs recently adopted in this House, and then here is the Proposal for a Law on the State's Attorney's Office, etc. What I consider to be good and what should have been brought in, and that is, in Article 6, is that the expression of that norm has been changed in a way that clearly expresses itself and determines that it is an invalid evidence, that it cannot be used as evidence by the use of force, threat or other means of coercion. So, to be stricter than what he said so far, he said he shouldn't, but he didn't clearly prescribe what happens if it does. It is also good to determine the exact and uniform definition of the initiation of criminal proceedings for all criminal offences. So it's a confirmation of the indictment. But here, I might be troublesome here in paragraph 2 of this article, so I suggest to the applicant if there is anything he can do, because it is said if the legal consequences resulting from the fact that the criminal proceedings are in progress, then it is said of all the offences for which the fine or sentence of prison is prescribed for up to five years. We have far more serious criminal offences that have prevented the prison from being punished for up to five years, that practically legal consequence of the initiation of proceedings, so the law says is a condemning verdict. When a convicted verdict is written, it means a judicial verdict, then the criminal proceedings are over and it doesn't start. It's also a good provision on the rights of the detainees. It's a deadline for him to be questioned by a 10-hour state attorney. It is also good that the basis for determining an investigative prison is complemented in such a way that it is determined that an investigative prison can be determined if it is necessary for the uninterrupted conduct of the procedure, which is extremely important and that the victim of a criminal offence is informed. In addition, in the context of frequent complaints, complaints of proceedings during prison arrests are also a good provision which, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's ruling in Article 141(5), lays down the right of a person deprived of liberty who considers that it is unlawfully deprived or restricts its right to address the President of the Court and can then, without the presence of a judicial officer, examine the state of the prisoner and his rights in the course of his or her imprisonment. As regards Article 231 which has been sterilised in a way that the provision that is in the current text of the law which states that, which determines that the pre-confirmation procedure is not public in the proposal and that so far it has been smuggled that we secretly warn the applicant to consider compatibility, i.e. an expression that has Article 305. A criminal law that determines the protection of the confidentiality of data from proceedings, so as to see how it will then, in this way, protect the secrecy of the conduct of the investigation. Finally, an important debate giving opportunity and I consider it an extremely important institute to prevent the abuse of procedural powers of the parties in the proceedings, where the provision of Article 3(4) gave me the opportunity to hold the hearing in the absence of the defendants if the proceedings were conducted for a criminal offence for which the sentence was prescribed for up to 12 years, and the defendant was duly called, did not approach or be called for his guilt because he had changed the address did not notify the court or apparently avoided the call. Of course, to the possibility of holding a debate in his absence, he must be previously alerted in the invitation and must be present in the presence of his defender. Here is why we believe it is extremely important to give the tool into the hands of both the State Attorney's Office and the courts in order to more effectively prosecute, prosecute and prosecute the perpetrators of criminal offences, as on 1 July 2009, the deadline for the entry into force of the provisions of the new Criminal Procedure Act in relation to the so-called “Criminal Procedure”. acquittal crimes. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports these amendments, believing they contribute to the new and better quality of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33777	Thank you very much. These were statements on behalf of two clubs. We heard two legal authorities, a judicial authority, two former ministers. And now another legal authority has been reported for an individual debate, a colleague of the vice president of House Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33778	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, State Secretary, Madam and Gentlemen Representatives. I would like to explain proposals for 2 amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act and that is one to Article 231 and the second amendment relating to Article 573. For the purposes of this previous amendment, Article 231 is that Article 231 is replaced by the following: The law on criminal proceedings provides that investigations are secret or precise in the course of the investigation is classified, all persons who have the content and procedural activities during the investigation are obliged to keep the facts or information they have learned on that occasion, and the body taking the action will warn the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article that it is a secret criminal offence. The proposal for a law in Article 231 provided for a different formulation. He predicted the following. The action before the prosecution is confirmed is not public. All persons who have the content of the evidence store prior to the confirmation of the indictment are obliged as a secret to keep facts or information they have learned on that occasion and the body will continue to warn that it is a secret offence. This Proposal shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal According to the applicant's explanation, the law on criminal proceedings was amended by respecting the objections made by the Croatian Journalist Society. However, in point 55 of the Action Plan, the Strategy for implementation of the Justice Reform, Croatia announced in that action plan according to the European Commission and Brussels as one of the measures that when adopting the Criminal Procedure Act, the investigation will be classified. In accordance with that measure of 155 of the Action Plan based on the Justice Reform Strategy, I propose an amendment to Article 46 which amends Article 231 so that it reads: "The procedure in confirming the indictment is secret, all persons who directly or indirectly learn the content of the evidence action and before confirming the indictment are obliged as a secret to keep facts and information they have learned. The body taking up the operation shall warn the persons participating in the evidence shop referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article that it is a secret criminal offence." The second applies to the amendment to Article 573. The law on criminal proceedings. In particular, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which ceased to apply on 1 January 2009, in Article 400 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Law on Criminal Procedure, which expired on 1 January 2009. '90s. In the year, there were prescribed persons convicted by the courts of the former Yugoslavia during the communist rule for political crimes, politically motivated crimes or other criminal offences, if a condemnation occurred through abuse of political power, they may request the annulment of a condemning decision or other appropriate legal act. Under the abuse of political power, it will be considered to be a case in which a conviction has taken place in its sentence or has preceded an infringement of internationally legally recognised principles of the rule of law, of a democratic society or of a conflict with the public order of the Republic of Croatia, and if the person referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article has died, the audit may be declared by its successors in accordance with the legal order. Finally, in paragraph 4, the revision may be declared within 2 years of the entry into force of this law. The new Criminal Procedure Act completely left out the provision of Article 490 and all others relating to the review procedure on those cases, but left the possibility of exceptional legal remedies against decisions by military courts in the former Yugoslavia, Articles 570 and 571. The CAP. So, in addition to an unwarranted relatively short pre-exclusive period of 2 years for the review by the former CAP, the new CAP has now been committed in my view by a new injustice and discrimination since extraordinary legal remedies against the sentences of the former Yugoslavia's military courts have been continued, but not by other Yugoslav criminal courts who have made mass judgments exactly as described in Article 490(1) and (2), so by abuse of political power. Therefore, the proposal for this amendment is to remove this two-year pre-exclusive deadline, especially since this short pre-exclusive deadline is contrary to the intensity and content of the declaration... crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in the Republic of Croatia 45th to 1990. the year which confirmed and strengthened the meaning and content of Resolution 1481 on international revenge and crime won the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of the European Union on 25 January 2006, and adopted the Croatian Parliament on 30 June 2006, and is also in line with the European Parliament's decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the intensity and proposal of this amendment is to allow the revision not only against the decision of the former Yugoslavia's military courts, but also against other military courts. The audit excludes those convicted of crimes of war crimes, murder, serious bodily injuries, illegal acquisition of property. Therefore, those who have been convicted for these types of most serious crimes, but are allowed to launch an audit by heirs or human rights associations that would take place without judicial debates, to annul the judgments and procedures that are against the fundamental principles of justice, legal order and European law and Croatian law and the general sense of justice and therefore to abolish that period, for two years now, that is the content of this second amendment that I propose to the Government to accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33779	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Representative Ingrid Anitcevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33780	Since my colleague Shakespeare said, explaining his second amendment, I think it's absolutely acceptable and I believe it's acceptable for the government as well. This is only actually on the trail of that justice to correct the old injustices. And when fellow Shakespeare spoke this professionally, and also freely, because we have this not often and it is good that it happens that from the rulings the amendments come, the remarks come and even the amendments come. And when he started so hementically explaining the change in article 49, I expected major changes in terms of media protection and journalists, but I think it's well achieved in this way as it is now. And when he said, as he explained his amendment that pre-confirmation is not public, his proposal is to be secret, I think it's also a major advance. Thank you very much, and I also support that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33781	Thank you very much. It is up to MP Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33782	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's to these top legal experts, I'm actually not going to talk about legal issues. I'll speak as a politician and do it as a responsible politician. Because what we've seen now is that an opposition colleague supported the amendments from the ruling side of this assembly shows that it's something this House lacks, because today we'd avoid all this that we're discussing, that we're listening to what the opposition was talking about when this law was in previous reading and adoption. It is therefore evident that for the good law to be passed, it is not enough to have more hands in this assembly, but sometimes it is necessary to listen to an opposition that offers quality solutions in order to better pass the law. And especially when it comes to such important laws as this one. So I hope that in the future, they will listen a little more to what the opposition says in this assembly in the interest of citizens living in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33783	Thank you very much. No more reports. The applicant's representative does not want to take the floor. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the bill and the proposed amendments when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33784	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 373., proposed by the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. First, we will vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club, which reads: First, on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, third reading. Secondly, it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare and refer within 30 days to the Croatian Assembly of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, with the final proposal of the law, with amendments submitted and adopted in the second reading. Does the proposal's representative want to show himself about this proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Tatjana Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33785	Thank you, Mr. President. The conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted. The number of amendments to the text of the final bill is not enough to require a third reading. In fact, it is a total of 8 amendments, of which 6 are of a technical and nomotechnical nature and only 2 are of a substance nature, which the applicant considers not to be seeking further discussion and therefore does not accept the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33786	Thank you. I am voting on a proposal to conclude a SDP representative club that the government does not accept. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was not accepted because it was voted 27, no abstentions and 77 against it. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, representative Vladimir Seks, representative Damir Sesvečan and representative Ana Lovrin. I ask the representative of Mrs Vučetic, there is, all right, to be seen about the proposed amendments. First, the Committee on Justice, amendment number one to Article 43.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33787	All amendments to the Committee on Justice and all amendments to the Committee on Law shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33788	Okay. Thank you. So Amendment one, two, three and four accepted. They become an integral part of the proposal. Both the Legislative Committee on Article 117(1) and Article 119 of the two amendments. So these amendments became an integral part of the proposal. We have an amendment from Mr. Representative Damir Sesvecan to Article 46.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33789	The amendment is not accepted because it will be consummated by the adoption of Mr. Vladimir Seks' amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33790	Thank you. So this amendment has been withdrawn. He's retired. We have Mrs. Anne Lovrin's amendment to Article 46.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33791	The same is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33792	Unacceptable?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33793	No, I don't. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33794	Mrs. Lovrin's amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. We have an amendment from MPs and Vice President Vladimir Seks to Article 46.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33795	The amendment is accepted, but in the same way as the Proposer of the Amendment, Vice-President of the Council, Mr Vladimir Seks, suggested to the legislator and with the purpose of protecting the right to information as well as to protect the freedom of the media with a more precise and clear indication of which actions and at what stage of the procedure are secret, and which body and under what conditions may decide that a certain evidence action or part of the evidence shop is not secret. So the amendment to Article 46 reads. Article 231 is amended as follows: The procedure during the investigation is classified. The body taking the operation will warn the persons participating in the evidence shop that giving up a secret offence is a criminal offence when there is a public interest or other legitimate reasons, and it is not contrary to the interests of the investigation or to other provisions of this law, the authority conducting the investigation may decide that a certain evidence action or part of the evidence action is not secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33796	Thank you. Mr. Amendment Proposer, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33797	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have submitted an amendment in the original form that has also been submitted to the representatives for the sake of Croatia's failure to come into the situation to be suspected of violating the agreed rules with Europe. In fact, in an action plan related to the reform strategy of the judiciary to a extent of 155, it was dedicated to Brussels where Croatia committed itself to establishing that investigations are secret in the novel of the criminal, criminal proceedings in its legislation. After the action plan and the measure was submitted to the European Commission, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure where the Proposer of the Law was Government, i.e. the Ministry, proposed that the action before confirming the indictment is not public. So, it was excluded what Croatia had committed itself to be conduct during the investigation secretly and for these reasons I also submitted the amendment. But I immediately asked our negotiating team to be comparatively established, to establish a comparative review of the legislation, not to take an absolute ban on the secrecy of the investigation, but to allow certain procedural actions to be made public for legitimate reasons, to strike a balance between the interest of the investigation and the protection of the presumption of innocence and legitimate requests of the public for information. That balance and that balance, I also suggested to the ministry. The Ministry accepts this and therefore I accept this amendment as amended by the State Secretary, as this will also enable the protection of the secrecy of the investigation, the legitimate public interest and the protection of all interests of the participants in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33798	Thank you. So the motioner accepted the amendment in a statement that it was read here by Madam Secretary of State. Thank you very much. We have an amendment to article 116 of Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33799	The amendment is accepted but in a way. The title above Article 570 is amended and read. An audit and an extraordinary legal remedy against the decisions of former SFRY courts. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Persons convicted by former Yugoslavia's courts during the communist rule for political crimes, politically motivated criminal offences or other criminal offences if an appropriate decision has taken place by abuse of political power can request the annulment of a condemning decision or other appropriate legal act. Under the abuse of political power, there will be considered cases where convictions have occurred which in their sentence, pardon, or in the procedure which preceded it violates internationally legally recognised principles of the rule of law and democratic society or contradicts the public order of the Republic of Croatia. Where the person referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article has died, the audit may be declared by its successors in accordance with the legal order. If the heirs are an unknown audit they can also declare human rights protection associations based in the Republic of Croatia. If the audit is declared by associations based in the Republic of Croatia, it must also contain an excerpt from the register of the association from which it is apparent that the scope of its activities is the protection of human rights. New articles, 570.a., 570.b., 570.c., 570.d. and 570.e. shall read as follows: "Article 570.a. The audit shall contain the personal data of the convict, data on the judgment to be refuted, data on the facts and evidence on which it is based, the justification and signature of the applicant and, if the applicant is an heir, evidence that the convict has died or that he is his legal successor. The audit shall be declared by the county court in whose territory the court has its head office, which has made the first-degree decision. If the audit has been declared to an unauthorized court or if the Court of First Instance has its head office outside the Republic of Croatia, the provisions of Article 24 of this Act will apply. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The review is decided by the 3-judge council at the session. An incomplete or unauthorised revision will be rejected by the President-in-Office of the Council. An appeal may be made against that solution within 15 days. At the Council meeting, audit applicants, his authority and state attorney are called. The sitting can be held, although neatly invited persons do not attend the session. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Council may request the competent national authorities to collect and supply data relevant for the audit decision. The auditor, his authority and state attorney may make statements at the session to clarify certain issues relating to the audit. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The audit of the Council shall be decided by a An incomplete or unauthorised review will reject the council with a solution if it is not done by the President of the Council. The verdict will refuse the review as unfounded if it finds that it has been filed against a decision which has been convicted by the applicant of a war crime or another criminal offence for which the Republic of Croatia is obliged to prosecute under the rules of international law, a criminal offence that has resulted in the loss of the life of a person, a serious physical injury... "... No problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do you want to start over or where I left off? Do you want to start over? No problem. Mr. President, how am I going to do this? ... Therefore, Article 570.d. "The review of the council is decided by a verdict or a solution. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] An incomplete or unauthorised review will reject the council with a solution if it is not done by the President of the Council. The verdict will refuse to review as unfounded if it finds that it has been filed against a decision which has been convicted by the applicant of a war crime or another criminal offence for which the Republic of Croatia is required to prosecute under international law, a criminal offence whose conduct has resulted in the loss of life of a person, serious physical injury or if a convict has acquired an illegal property benefit for himself or another or if it is the act of the opposite public order of the Republic of Croatia. The Court will also refuse to review if it finds that there are no reasons why it has been declared. If it finds that the audit has been established, the Council will annul the verdict in full or in part the contested decision in the sentence of criminal liability. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Against the decision of the council of the county court, the applicant of the audit and the State's attorney may file a complaint within 15 days. The Supreme Court decides on the appeal in the Council of Five Judges. The Supreme Court may, by means of its decision, confirm, amend or abolish the decision of the County Court on the revision. If Article 570 to 574 of this Act does not provide otherwise, the review procedure and the appeal procedure against the judgment of the County Court on the revision will be subject to the provisions of this Act relating to the decision of the Council in the session on appeal of the judgment. The costs of the audit procedure will be decided by the Court in accordance with Article 151 of this Act. In Article 573, indent 1, the words ‘30 August 2011’ shall be replaced by the words ‘31 August 2011.’.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33800	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33801	Dear President, this is Rule 168, I suppose, or 169, which speaks of amendments. This isn't an amendment to the MPs. This is the government's amendment. The amendment of the MPs is quite different. There was added another pile of text, inserting new articles, to the amendment of MPs. This is the amendment of the government to be discussed. And this whole thing is going pretty unserious. This is the Code of Criminal Procedure, which regulates human rights and freedoms. And now that, the final version is done so that ultimately the MP gives the amendment, the government says that, we accept the amendment, but in a different form, dictates a bunch, a bunch of other texts, the MP says that, yes, I agree with that. That's neither being debated nor being voted on. It becomes an integral part of the law. This is the procedure against which we protest the most strongly and we think this whole procedure is being conducted in a non-business way. It's about the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33802	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33803	It is not a fellow Stazic about a different amendment, but only about nomotechnical techniques, different numberings. It's the contents of this proposal from the government. So it's not about any other intonation, it's about the one that's contained in my amendment. What exactly is this about? I want this amendment to bring back to life a previous provision, something amended by the Code of Criminal Procedure, a provision, I speak no debate, my colleague forgive me, I have the right to manifest myself on this amendment that I have made and I do. Don't throw it at me. It is, therefore, that it is coming back to life the earlier provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure in a somewhat altered form which requires for the interest of justice, to respect the Declaration of the Croatian Parliament on the condemnation of crimes committed during the communist order, which is in line with the relevant Council of Europe resolution to enable those persons for whom the courts of the former Yugoslavia have condemned during the communist rule for political crimes, politically motivated crimes, and which have been convicted by abuse of political power. This means that the audit can be audited and the convictions of these courts, not only of the military, but of all the courts of '45. in addition, one review procedure without debates of the court on the basis of the file shall be annulled and judgments and proceedings. For example, the one who was led, the verdict that was conducted and the proceedings against Cardinal Stepinac or the procedure to be annulled in that revised procedure in which Andrew Hebrang's son was killed... So these are the procedures that need to be done through the audits to make it possible for interested persons to resolve and initiate these audit procedures, that's another thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here's the thing is that it requires justice and justice, that none of these crimes of jurisprudence remain unpunished, that it be covered, that it was a legal and legal act of those courts that judged innocent people, condemned, executed, and sentenced to severe prison sentences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33804	We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33805	Mr. President, thank you. Therefore, Article 168(3) states that an amendment may be referred to the applicant's indication. I am surprised that such an experienced person as Mr. Seks is not referring to what the promoter said but to what Mr. Stazic said. So I ask him when he sees something like that next time he doesn't warn us from the chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33806	I mean, I really don't have words. Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33807	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I'm looking for a break of 15 minutes so we can look at what we can't see right now. So far, we are missing all the necessary elements to be able to declare this amendment, and I ask you to allow us at least 15 minutes of consultation, to look at the amendment and to look at the basic intensity that we understand and support, see and what are all possible ranges and consequences of that intensity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33808	Thank you. I'd also like to ask Mr. Vice President if he has shown himself about accepting the State Secretary's amendment or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33809	I have shown myself to accept this statement of amendments that I have submitted, but changed in line with the State Secretary's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33810	Mrs. Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33811	I, too, Mr. President, ask you to take another break for the SDP club because we didn't get anything in writing. We've been listening here for almost 10 minutes to a lady from the ministry who's been giving us some arguments that change the important content of this law. So we'd like an extra consult at the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33812	And 12.15 minutes means 10 minutes break for this and we're going on exactly at 12.15 minutes. Here you go. Please, let's not go any further. There's another law that needs to be passed. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we will proceed with our work. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33814	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS Club proposes to postpone the vote on this bill for two reasons. First because there is a procedural reason and that is because Article 490 does not exist in the current proposal. And the fact that another article has been extorted so that this amendment can be proposed can, of course, be the subject of discussion but we ask that this debate be brought forward because we did not discuss it. Secondly, as far as content is concerned, the content is complex, extremely complex. I understand that we from the SDSS Club not only understand but we also support the basic intensity but we would like to be sure which are the mechanisms, which are the subjects and which may be the consequences of such a formulated and in the ear of only the accepted and not the studied amendment, which was read by the State Secretary. We are in favour of making assumptions about the revision. Some of the cases are mentioned here, and I would not enter into legitimate matters but at least one of these cases has after it has received political rehabilitation probably also merits legal rehabilitation, but given the possible consequences that such possible content of the amendment proposal can produce in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, in mutual political relations we believe it is necessary to reconsider this. Me and other representatives of the SDSS Club have experience with similar elements of legislation in which the result of changes or proposals was not a universal legal solution but a partial right solution. Not that everyone concerned, who was the victims of the regime at the time in their justice, should be satisfied but only some. I'll give you one example. In a law that has long been in force when it comes to the return of property owned by the former state and former government of the then minority communities and other cultural institutions whose property was seized by force of political will and the activity of the Croatian and Serbian Cultural Society Education said Education you cannot get the property back. Why? Same act, same will, same mistake. I would like it not to happen in this case, and that all of them, regardless of what it was, whether those who were killed before the Glog of the island or those who were killed after the Glog of the island or at that time are also taking care of that fact. This gives us the impression that we are going into reform without actually having to consider the need for a universal principle of review, and then because of the lack of that universal principle, it will open up conflicts that are already beginning to open. We are not for these conflicts to be led in this way, we are not for them to once again open as the basic element of our political life and that is why I am going back to the beginning of what I said. The SDSS Club proposes to postpone the vote on this amendment and therefore to agree on this bill and then agree on what can be agreed upon and then join the vote afterwards. Otherwise we won't be able to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33815	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33816	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, let me say that the SDP club does not question the good intentions and the intensity of the proposings of this amendment. The SDP Club believes that it is necessary to introduce an institute to review political processes but we think that it is one matter that is so complex and in which there is the possibility of abuse, legal abuse and that it cannot be resolved in the way we have started, which is that the MP submits the amendment, that the Government significantly amends this amendment and extends it, that the MP, as we have heard, agrees with such text and that, without any vote and without any debate, it becomes an integral part of the law. The issue of reviewing political processes in the former state should be entered into legislation but only this article requires discussion in two readings because it is too serious a question to change the law in an unserious way. Therefore, the SDP club proposes to apply Article 167 of our Rules of Procedure. This article reads this also paragraph 1: "If amendments of such nature have been tabled that they substantially change or deviate from the final proposal of the Law, the Parliament may decide to postpone the debate to allow MPs sufficient time to prepare before the decision is made. This is a classic case. It's a classic case. The amendment substantially changes the text of the law. There is a whole problem and a solution to some problem, and the MPs did not get it in writing and couldn't, of course, follow through this reading fully what the amendment looks like. Therefore, Mr. President, we ask you to apply Article 167 to postpone the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33817	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Seks and Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33818	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This amendment contains only two amendments to the existing provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Under the existing positive provision of the Criminal Procedure Act, only a review is allowed against the sentences of the former Yugoslavia's military courts to be submitted as an extraordinary legal remedy and to request the annulment of those judgments. Before this law was allowed against all judgments. So here it is only required to allow against the verdicts of the general jurisdiction of the courts, the general jurisdiction not only of the military courts. And the second change is that two-year deadline for the audit statement has expired. And no one has filed a request for such an audit by a person or an heir. This amendment is aimed at abolishing the deadline because it is also about criminal acts that do not go out of date. The third amendment is that they are actively legitimate if there is no, if the person has died or if there are no successors, that persons, legal persons for human rights registered in the Republic of Croatia are authorised to initiate the audit procedure. So these are ladies and gentlemen representing all these three little changes. It's no change. And Mrs. Anticevic, you were saying, quote, when I was talking in my first reading the other day about this bill, you thought this was an excellent proposal, that you strongly support it, and now I'm surprised at the reasons why it is now going to be challenged. I repeat, nothing new changes except these three things. There are no deadlines, there are also judgments of the courts of general jurisdiction and legitimate human rights associations registered in Croatia are privileged to start, ask for these audits if there are no heirs and if persons have died. That's it, gentlemen. I ask the MPs and the representatives and the clubs who made these remarks, especially you fellow Pupovac, to respect these reasons and that we need to pass this law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, because the application of these other provisions should take effect on 1 July, therefore, for courts of jumping courts for the procedure for organised crime and corruption. And let's not have this whole procedure and this whole mechanism that's been voted on, these three moments before the three previous laws, now question it that there's one delay and that it can't be done just by these provisions, this law on criminal proceedings to pass the entire Criminal Procedure Act. ... Because look, what the secretary of state put out, she just technically subsumed all those provisions that were already in place, she just put them in one nomotechnical unit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, those who are interested, so I kindly ask you dear MPs and MPs to see what this is about, that this is not about any new amendments, that what has been read is the whole provisions of the law that apply to the Council when it brings, when it brings, in which time limits, which are in the existing law, it is only now that in this amendment it is put simply on, no-technically, in one place. Here's a colleague and colleagues who are lawyers who know it well and well, trust me because I don't know if it's necessary to take the risk that because of this legal provision, this whole procedure that is related to the adoption of the USKOK Act, the state courts. If anyone wants to take that risk, then let them say it. Why, which is why, which would be a reason, would be a serious reason for me, colleague Pupovac, to ask you to consider this, you see that. Let's not hitchhike, let's not hitchhike these provisions, the whole Penal Procedure Act, believe that's what this is about. That all other connotations are excluded because there remain positive legal provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act relating to the audit, for whom the audit, in respect of whom, as they are now in the existing law, remains.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33819	Mr. Pupovac called again, but I'd only like two sentences. Therefore, from this procedure the submission of amendments and the reasons given by the State Secretary in respect of the amended acceptance of that amendment exists, it can be understood that this is some new amendment, that is the point. It would have been far better if the statement the secretary of state said here had been shared to the MPs, it would have been far better. And then it would appear that what the vice president is saying is that they didn't come to the point, but they agreed, in fact, they did nomotechnically on the basis of the amendment submitted, but it should be seen, that's what MPs should have. I don't know how to get out of this. We're still missing this amendment to pass the law. And to be effective tomorrow, how can it be overcome. Let's say, it's possible to prevail by multiplying the explanation of what you have submitted Mr. Seks' amendment, you have that, by multiplying the reasoning and the amended amendment in the amended text, the form of the State Secretary, that the representatives get it on the bench and that we vote on that law for one half hour. How now, I mean, we can't put it off for ten days now, so on and so forth. We have to be rational if you want. So my proposal would be to have the secretary of state to multiply his reasoning so that by compatriation between what Mr. Vladimir Seks submitted, his amendment, and the Secretary of State was in a very long elaborate manner, which created the confusion, that this was really about the changes, to see it. Because I'm not prone to breaking up about us being outvoted now, etc. If that's the only problem, then let's at least study it. It's not some text that needs to be discussed for five days, but to be multiplied, to be given to the representatives on the bench, and then we vote about an hour and we end this thing. By asking you not to leave the Parliament, because then we won't have a quorum. If that's okay with you. Here, Mr. Pupovac asked for it, too. I ask you to respect that we will not now look at any business provision regarding this procedure, because it is a more important purpose for us to come to a solution than for someone to get a word in, and they shouldn't, etc. That's why I think even though you used five minutes to Mr. Pupovac's word and to try and make his contribution to it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33820	Mr. President. I suggest next. Let the Amendment Proposer withdraw the amendment so that we can vote on the Code of Criminal Procedure. We will do so, and when we agree on that amendment, that is, when we agree on it, I propose that the amendment come immediately after that to the Parliament's agenda in the form of amendments and amendments to the laws that we could vote on today. We do not know to what extent this amendment can produce universal or partial consequences, legally, which may be considered victims of that regime either in the political or legal sense of that word. We don't know, and the proposer doesn't say how much it's gonna cost. We don't know or know to what extent it will burden the loaded vessels anyway. And we ultimately don't know to what extent it will open up political divisions this unprepared and unconformed. I therefore propose, Mr. Vice President, at best, that we believe in the same thing that motivated you and that I want to agree with you and bring it together that we can accept it, that you withdraw the amendment and agree with it, and that we adopt this bill in the meantime.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33821	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33822	I have appealed, I have asked you to accept these reasons, to accept this argument and that it is all about three amendments, to amend that the actively legitimate human rights associations registered in Croatia are registered for the submission of the audit, to remove the deadline for submission of the audit and to expand, to return to the situation that the audits cannot be declared only against the verdicts of the military courts, but against all courts of general jurisdiction. I don't think I should withdraw this amendment and suggest we make a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33823	The situation is like this. Mr. Vladimir Seks, on behalf of the club, proposes not to accept this, this amendment in a changed form as read by Mrs. Secretary of State. By formally legally looking at this amendment, as we have done other amendments, it has been accepted in a changed form. I explained, and in fact, it came to my attention that the MPs had come to believe that there were some differences. However, this reasoning shows that there is no such difference. We can now accept this amendment in the form of the State Secretary and then, together with the amendments adopted, vote on the adoption of this law. In order not to reopen the debate, withdraw the amendments, open the debate on amendments, it requires time, but as it appears there are no significant differences. There are no significant differences, there is only nomotechnical alignment and an expression that explains these amendments. I think that's mostly, none of the major remarks he made here nor did he make, except that it was a little procedural whether accepting this amended amendment was acceptable. That's why I'm asking you to vote on this. The amendment was accepted by the applicant in the form of a State Secretary. So, accordingly, I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. Let's please get involved and vote on the law, along with these amendments, of course. It takes 77 votes to pass this law. Please, let's vote who hasn't voted or who's forgotten or who doesn't have the key, so let's make sure he doesn't have the key or anything. Please. The promoter seems to be making an amendment if he isn't. Here you can see that I was right, that there weren't some who thought they voted, but they didn't. Please score. The law was passed by a majority of votes, 77 votes for and 28 against, nothing abstentions along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33824	It is the 11th item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 350 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Commission shall adopt The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. And you received reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Justice Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The word is Drazen Bosnjakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33825	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, before you there is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Literature. A very short explanation, because indeed the scope of the changes is not great. Namely, this is a de facto consequence and this is a alignment with the Law on Practicery and the Judicial Exam. As you know, the Law on Exercise and Justice Exam is a new law that we have set up a completely different entry into the exercise, a completely different way of treating the trainees in our courts and a different way of passing the judicial exam. In order for the system to function fully, it is, of course, touching those trainees in the public notation, and therefore, these amendments to the Law on Public Literature change certain provisions where we say that the Chamber of Public Note is obliged to coordinate its education programme, meaning those theoretical educations of its public notaries with a programme that will have our judicial academy. Since we have been in the process of amending as if we were still trying to remove certain inaccuracies that represent the problem small in practice, which primarily referred to Article 13. The law on public records that prescribed what conditions would make someone a notary is. Well, as part of that article, we had one provision in paragraph 2, that the public notary could not be the one against whom the investigation was opened. Today we say that it can't be the one against whom a criminal trial has been initiated, because it might actually happen that someone is being investigated. After that, a criminal procedure was initiated, and with the grammatical interpretation of this article, we would be in trouble. The same situation is also the case when we are bound by strict distance procedures or in fact by the temporary disabling of measures where the notebooks could not act on the duty of the notary until the end of the criminal proceedings against them. It has also been regulated so far in a way that only during the course of the investigation, for example, if the investigation is to be completed, then the criminal proceedings begin and according to the current grammatical interpretation of the law we would actually have to tolerate them to continue their work. We therefore propose these two minor amendments, and we believe that this law is one implementation of the Law on Exercises that we need because such a system of exercise and passing a judicial exam really enables a very wide education of candidates for the judicial exam and we believe that it will contribute significantly to the quality of the staff we will have throughout the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33826	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Mrs. Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33827	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. The Committee on Justice considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration with the final proposal for a law as a home working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative highlighted all the essentials of the proposed amendments and additions. Members of the board unanimously supported the adoption of this law. The Committee’s view that the way in which the exercise practice of a public notary is regulated, which may last for the longest four years, is two years to obtain the conditions for the passing of a judicial examination and for a further two years to obtain the conditions for the submission of a public examination, is not good, the provision is not good because the same sets out difficult conditions for a public notary than the conditions laid down for judges, which is inadmissible in view of the nature and complexity of the proceedings of judges in relation to public notaries. It is proposed to make clear the obligation to comply with the programme of professional education of public notary practitioners and education programmes, i.e. that theoretical part in the public record chamber and in the judicial academy as it is in the law chamber. Following the discussion, the Committee on Justice unanimously supported the adoption and proposed the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Literature with the following amendment. Article 4 Article 127(1) is amended as follows: "The programme of professional education of public notary practitioners referred to in Article 123(6) of this Law, adopted by the Chamber, must comply with the programme of the Justice Academy of the Ministry of Justice." Paragraph 5 of the same article is amended and reads as follows: "The Chamber will determine by special regulation the way in which professional education is financed within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law." Explanation. In a clear and unequivocal manner, the obligation to comply with the education programme of public notary officers of the chamber and the Justice Academy of the Ministry of Justice is prescribed. The time limit for the adoption of the Regulation on how to finance the professional education of public notary practitioners is also set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33828	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of SDP club representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33829	The SDP Club supports amendments to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration. Namely, these changes want to be determined, to specify some of the doubts that occurred in the appointment of the notebook, at the temporary distance of the notebook. And thirdly, we are also talking about the education of trainees in the public notary and, in accordance with the amendments to this law, which we have discussed in the judicial bodies and the same way in law enforcement in the uniform education of all these practitioners in the judiciary and in the judiciary in a broad sense, such as public notary or notariat. However, the arguments here to be specified when it is necessary to remove the public notary from the service simply does not stand this doubt when the criminal proceedings begin, by investigating or confirming the indictment, when, according to the amended Criminal Procedure Act, which we have also discussed on a net basis, more formal proceedings and does not start with an investigation as it has now begun by adopting a solution to the investigation, i.e. strictly theoretically until the decision to conduct the investigation becomes legal. That's how it's been so far. But from now on, the criminal proceedings begin by confirming the indictment. It's quite clear to me why this administration that was preparing for the ministry this bill might have to know all the details of what the administration is doing for... And I'm sure you should know that from a resolute minister and a government when it comes to proposing a law like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now we've had a reason when criminal proceedings begin and yet more precision to remain this law which is absolutely not a bill that doesn't correspond at all with amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. There, these are things that should not happen in that vault, and for that is the Minister of Resort, or all of the government. Of course, these changes are supported because there were a lot of doubts about the current Criminal Procedure Act, which was defined in a different way, I say the way in which the criminal proceedings were committed because it also started in different ways depending on the severity of the crime. As for this training attitude and practice in this time I think that this is necessary in view of the frequent observations you know and in recent times which do not so often in public such education are the great powers of the public notary, it is simply more authorised by a lawyer who can correct the state's attorneyship or the court itself as one of the participants in the process, but a public notary that has special powers can do enormously with its impeccable or inexplicable work, which may be irreparable especially when it comes to some contracts, to a death contract or to a life support contract or when heirs can no longer correct a mistake. And that's why I think that this kind of time that's been determined here isn't without any meaning just so much that we're playing with whether it's a year and a half, two or three, but it's certainly come out of learning the issues of the public notary and we at the SDP Club, we're fully in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33830	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Ivo Grbic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33831	Dear Croatian Parliament Vice-Presidents, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration, which also brings the legislative proposal into line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. With the proposed amendments and additions to the law, I would say more precisely and in an unequivocal way, that the person who applied for the appointment for the public notary does not meet the conditions for designation if a criminal procedure is initiated against that person, which is a broader and more comprehensive formulation of the denomination obstacle for the public notary. Therefore, the current provision of the law has been prescribed that the person who has applied for the appointment for a public notary does not meet the conditions for appointment if an investigation is opened against it. It is also more precise to determine the case where a public notary is temporarily vacated from law enforcement if a criminal offence is committed against him for which a sentence of five years or more severe punishment is intended, or for an act which, by its nature, makes him unworthy to carry out a public record service until the finality of the criminal proceedings is brought to an end, and not as it is now prescribed only for the sake of an investigation which enables such person to continue to conduct a public record service after the investigation has been completed and the suspension is terminated, although it continues to be subject to criminal proceedings against it. Since the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination determines that the programme of education of public notary practitioners and the duration of the exercise practice is governed by the Law on Public Records, it is proposed to prescribe that the public notary in the public record office is practiced in order to pass a judicial examination and to obtain the conditions for a public record examination according to the programme of education of public notary practitioners. In order to achieve the conditions for passing a judicial examination and for a further two years for obtaining the conditions for a public record examination, the exercise practice may take up to four years. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Croatian Public Recording Chamber should adopt a mandatory programme of professional education of public notary practitioners, while the theoretical part of professional education and public notary trainees must be in line with the judicial academy programme and the practical part of the exercise practice shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on trainees in judicial bodies and judicial examination. Furthermore, the proposed amendments and additions are prescribed that public notary trainees, after 18 months of public record practice, have the right to access a judicial examination if they have performed a practical and theoretical part of professional education. For all the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Literature as well as the amendment of the Committee on Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33832	HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33833	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration are brought into line with the provisions of the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination in such a way that the chamber determines the compulsory programme of education, public notary practitioners for the purpose of passing a judicial examination, the deadlines in which the trainees have the right to access to a judicial examination. More precisely, the conditions for public notebooks are regulated, more precisely regulating temporary distance from the service by force of the law. So, we've heard a lot about Articles 13 and 18, and I'm not going to repeat it here. And I will finally say that the Croatian People's Party Club will support these changes and amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33834	Thank you very much. An individual debate, Mrs. Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is a very short proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the Law on Public Literature. It is quite already said, I would point out in particular that I am pleased to have this amendment when the service is moving away from the law of a public notary in the event of a criminal offence for the reason that we have so far had a provision of law that led to absurd situations that the public notary was away from the service during the investigation and when the investigation was based on that criminal procedure then there was no legal basis for distance, so the ministry, or the minister, had to do so in what way would require the chamber to initiate a tight procedure because it was the basis for a tight procedure but it was not for ex-legation of distance from the service. So this absurd situation is being corrected by these changes, and that's good. It is also good that this law is actually in line with the provisions of the Law on Trainers, that the exercise practice is evened in that theoretical and practical part. But what we have heard is that it is good to discuss whether or not it is good, what anyone thinks about this training practice in public notebooks for four years, but it would simply be if we accepted in this form the amendment and the addition of Article 123 in order to be in conflict with the views of the same article. Namely, in the current law of its last amendments and additions before this proposal, Article 123 was updated in such a way that public records were introduced to the public records of which the register is kept in the Public Recording Chamber, and that article says in its paragraph 7 if the trainee continues to work or establish a working relationship in the public record office after the legal examination has been passed, he will be considered a public notifier. Therefore, a public notary who has been a trainee for two years, after having passed the judicial examination, cannot continue to be a public record practitioner for another two years, acquiring practice and experience to pass a public record exam, but, according to the provisions of one paragraph in that same article of the current law, he is considered a public notary advisor. Similarly, the basic text of this law stipulates that only one public notary advisor can be employed in the public office. Therefore, he ex-lege if he passed the judicial exam becomes a public notary advisor until he has passed the exam for the public notary after which he can become a public notary, which also determines that he would limit the size of the office because the state is believed to transfer power to the public notary, but not to its possible crew in the office which will then be far more, so it is limited to the latest changes and the number of public notaries and the number of public notifiers. So here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to make an amendment in that sense to edit this Article of the 123s Act, and then I'm going to support these amendments and additions, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33836	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33837	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just want to say that the Proposer accepts this amendment to the Justice Committee. Indeed, the statement of the Justice Committee is far more precise than ours is in the proposal. Thank you to the Justice Committee. And here I can only say on the note that it was necessary to specify this timing itself or the time of the criminal proceedings, I think no-technically this covers it because if we were to write everything that is written in the Criminal Procedure Act, then we would have to write precisely what about the moment of the criminal proceedings when we have a criminal order or when we have a private lawsuit. That's why it's much more appropriate for us to say that it's when a criminal trial is initiated. A lex specialis Law on criminal proceedings he precises means all these situations that are different when the criminal proceedings are initiated. Nomotechnically it is possible, as counterpart Antičević said, but I think it was much more appropriate for us to go to this kind of nomotechnical method where it means we leave lex specialis to determine the initiation of a criminal procedure, which is the exact moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33838	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33839	15. Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on public notation. It was an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. No. 350 Proposer of Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee for Justice and Representative Ana Lovrin. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment committees and voted on them. It becomes an integral part of the bill and Ms Marina Dujmović-Vuković would like to make a statement on Mrs Anne Lovrin's amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33840	In Article 3, we accept but in a way that the second paragraph of the amendment reads: "The paragraph 7 is amended and reads as follows: the exercise practice of a public notary may take two years to obtain the conditions for passing a judicial examination.".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33841	Mrs. Lovrin?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33842	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33843	Accepted in the text as the secretary of state read it. Amendment 2 to Article 127 And that was on Article 3? [[Intruder: Article 4]] [[Intruder: Yes, yes, this is on Article 4.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33844	Yeah, yeah, okay. Therefore, it is accepted but in a way that paragraph 2 of this amendment reads: "The current paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 become paragraphs 4, 5 and 6.".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33845	If it's accepted... Okay, thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law was passed with 100 votes for, 1 abstention, nothing against along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33846	We are going to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the exercise of work for the general good at freedom and conditional convictions with protective supervision in the infringement procedure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 353 The Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, European Integration and Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Who's going to explain it on behalf of the proposer? State Secretary at the Justice Department, Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33847	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Infringement law has laid down criminal and legal sanctions between them and the work for the common good on freedom and probation with protective supervision. He also said that the enforcement of these criminal sanctions must be governed by a special law. There's no law like that, and that's the law in front of you now. It proposes that the power to carry out the work for the general good on the loose be taken over by law enforcement courts and thus connects the institute with the local community, while, in the case of a conditional conviction, it remains in enforcement with the Ministry of Justice, Commissioner of the Ministry of Justice. So it's a matter of this law to fill the legal void, have a certain anti-corruption effect, and a very strong link to the sampling system that will be presented through the legal text in this House during the next or next two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33848	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? European integration? Justice? I'm opening a debate. SDP's club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33849	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of a proposal for a law on the implementation of the general good on freedom and conditional convictions with protective supervision in the infringement procedure, namely for two reasons at least. First of all, it's good for and we think it's the best educational influence for these perpetrators, it's on the one hand. And on the other hand, if we disbursed our penalty system like this, I'd say even random delinquents. It's something that's very necessary. However, it seems to me here that it will still be necessary to provide certain resources for the implementation of this law, although it says here that no additional financial resources should be provided for the implementation of this law. This is one of the good solutions, and all the good solutions cost, at least in the beginning. And if I didn't, I'd like to say something because this opportunity requires that we talk about it, and I think it's very important. I'm gonna need you to shut down the computer prison. There'll be more and more people who won't be able to pay, or if they can, it's kind of their last item. I'm going to jail, and in a way, because he didn't pay some felony traffic ticket for the wrong parking lot, the wrong parking lot, he'd rather go to jail for spending that money. That's one thing. Another reason, perhaps there is no such means, and unfortunately it will become more and more frequent. And the third thing, it was a common monster to make fun of the system in that way. They know there's no room, so then they subscribe, they wait for order, and it's a joke then from a system that's being implemented by just the ones who broke the law. A serious state should not allow those who break the law to laugh at it. It should simply insist on the execution of fines. The state can't execute a fine. How can banks do that? How can a bank with its fiduciary be nice for an unpaid last war take the whole house away? That's what we gave them with the laws. We are constantly opposed to it especially in this time of recession. It's just gonna be a matter of time and talk about it, but I'm just saying here that there are a number of situations where there's property, but the state just doesn't get to mess with smaller amounts and charge a fine if it's not elegant from an account, whether it has constant incomes, so that's how it's done. But by swimming and this is the state, of course, because then it's expensive, inadequate. But she has to do it, not because it's economical or not, because such a procedure is ultimately far, far more expensive, more complicated than itself and often and insignificant fines, but it needs to be done to send that state message. It thus has an educational effect that it will do everything, that it will invest all the resources to satisfy justice. It's the only way for citizens to respect the state and take it seriously. And what are we doing? We've got this Institute of Suppletor Prison. It couldn't be done at the first moment, and then we fill up the penitentiary, prisons that are full and full and expose one person to a criminal infection. And we can see the color is now not only a criminal infection but also an infection of other infectious real diseases. Therefore, the situation is serious in our prison system. We need to find all possible ways and find ways to unburden him and in this way favor something that's so well-checked, which these people, when they do one task, are very priced and it has unsuspecting educational influences on such persons, that society has given them confidence in freedom, but that they still do something for the general benefit. It was not, we have, that the data and cases from Europe are known, and even from America, from which for many years and decades and decades and decades have been used by this institute, that those persons who have not really been convicted of some negligible offenses, when they have been exposed to this kind of work for the greater good, not only have they turned their lives away, but have become great advocates of humanitarian work because they are happy, because it is good to do good, and it is a joy for every person. All they have to do is give them a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33850	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33851	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must say that I welcome the adoption of this law, but I consider it necessary and alert to the problems I expect in the application of this law. In fact, working for the common good as a substitute for a prison sentence, as a substitute for unpaid punishment, is a measure that I absolutely support. However, of course not only as a measure to reduce overcrowding in the prison system. However, the text of the law must not only be a list of good wishes but its implementation must also be confirmed in practice, and there is a danger of discrediting this law and the whole idea as it was in the case of civil service of a military period where it is actually inappropriate, I would say by implementing the law itself all together, it turned into one, so I would almost say burlesk. For this reason, I will be extremely important and special regulation on the determination of institutions and other legal persons in which this work will be carried out for the general good, which will be adopted by the competent minister in accordance with this law. In my opinion, it must not happen that the work for the general good is considered, for example, doorwork in the offices of the state administration or delivery business and that is similar to what we had in the civil service of the military deadline and what actually discredited the entire system. I am particularly concerned by the provision that the time and daily duration of the work will be adapted to the needs of the convicts. The convicts, however, are persons who need to do something for the system, and the system does not need to be adapted to them to adjust their practical and working time. It's one provision I find unacceptable. In addition, I consider it particularly important to establish in addition to the list of institutions and legal persons in which the work and control system of those institutions will be carried out, which is not provided for in the text of the law itself, but also the introduction of control of the entire system as a whole. I must point out that I see the purpose of passing this law in particular in punishing vandals that we have as a state, as a society in general, very big problems. In particular, I would like to emphasise the fact that we practically have such a situation that it pays more to our citizens to take out garbage on the streets, because it is less cost to pay the fine than the legal and appropriate procurement process, for example, the container for the disposal of such waste. Perhaps one example from the countries of the European Union. A few years ago, we were all shocked when one of our high school high school graduates was arrested in a building in Germany, and he was given a fine of 50,000 euros for straddling walls. It's something that we have a problem that practically nobody deals with. The police don't care about the walling at all, but it's one of the crimes that the police would still have to deal with on the one hand, and on the other hand, through this law, we can in some way fight vandalism that's gone beyond our control. In the end I want to say I support this law, I am pleased to have it passed, but I also want success in its implementation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33852	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33853	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Therefore, this law, which is before us, regulates the enforcement of criminal and legal sanctions, the work for the general good at freedom, and the conditional convictions with protective supervision of adult convicts in criminal proceedings, which is regulated in Article 1. Namely, the new Criminal Code, which has been in force since 1 January 2008, stipulates that the special law will regulate the enforcement of these criminal sanctions, hence the work for the general good at large, as well as the conditional convictions with protective supervision, which are often referred to as alternative sanctions in practice. The characteristics, i.e. the advantages of these alternative sanctions, especially in criminal and criminal proceedings, are primarily to express them instead of taking away freedom, i.e. The sentenced person shall not be referred to the maintenance of the prison sentence, that after maintenance of the prison sentence it is not necessary to include through the various institutions of convicts in the regular life of the community and that alternative programmes are more successful than re-adivism or are at least as successful as prison. As for the Institute of Labour for the General Good at Freedom, it has been introduced and exists in our criminal justice system since 1 January 1998 when the new Penal Code came into force. The institute is not a special type of criminal sanctions, but has been established as a substitute for a pronounced short term prison sentence of a maximum of 6 months. Unlike working for the common good on the loose, a conditional conviction with protective supervision in our criminal law has existed since 1978 when the Criminal Law, under probation, was regulated and protected. The new Criminal Law introduced work for the general good on the loose in such a way that for 300 kuna fines, therefore 300 kunas of fines are replaced with one day of work for the general good on the loose, with a restriction that a certain work for the general good on the loose cannot be determined for a shorter period of less than 3 days or more than 60 days. In addition, the Criminal Law prescribes the possibility of a provisional conviction with protective supervision with a period of 3 months to one year, with the possibility of applying the prescribed specific obligations. Therefore, a conditional judgment with protective supervision shall apply in the case where the conditions for a conditional conviction have been met, but in view of the person and circumstances in which the perpetrator of the offence lives, the court may assess that he needs assistance, protection and supervision in order to fulfil the obligation within the time limit of verification in order not to commit a new infringement. In order to be able to carry out these two infringements, it is therefore necessary to adopt this Law on the exercise of work for the general good at freedom and conditional convictions with protective supervision in the infringement procedure. As regards the implementation of this law, it is important to stress that the exercise of the work for the general good on the loose is placed in the jurisdiction of the criminal court according to the place of residence of the perpetrators, given that this work should be carried out in the local community of perpetrators of the offence and in the institutions with which the infringement courts will enter into a contract. As regards the enforcement of a conditional sentence with protective supervision and a special obligation to safeguard the safeguards imposed in the infringement procedure, their enforcement is prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the enforcement of a conditional sentence with protective supervision laid down in the criminal proceedings, i.e. According to the Act on Protection Control and Work for the General Good at Freedom. Therefore, for the reasons set out above, and the reason why this law harmonises domestic legislation with the acquis of the European Union, in relation to the enforcement of the criminal-law sanctions imposed on freedom, I will support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33854	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33855	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. If this bill didn't have article 13 in it, I'd say it's ideal. Article 13 is the one that says that within 3 months, the Minister will adopt a Regulation on determining institutions and other legal persons where the work for general good will be carried out. I asked them why they didn't do it more often. But they asked me, Mr. Representative, do you know where to send them to work for the greater good? What institutions and legal persons in Croatia are currently defined, how many, where can we send them? I said I don't know. You see, if only every tenth was decided to work for a general good for three days, to come in line and do three days because it's a minimum of three days, each of them would wait about five years to come in line. What's the point of all this? Indeed, there is a part of the citizens who do not wish to avoid paying the fine, you will simply never be able to collect from them, nor with the help of the banks because they do not have current or jury accounts and have no money. They have those who avoid, deliberately avoid paying the fine. This measure would also allow for the reduction of pressure on prisons, would allow for sanctions on those who should be fined, and judges avoid giving such penalties because they know that they will never be paid, and rather leave the cases to end in statutes or it is simpler, but they have unpaid penalties. Especially in a part of the population that is well-known, especially with us in Međimurje. And say, what do we do, send them where? For what offense can a judge say work for the greater good? For a violation that's scheduled to be fined up to 500 kuna, is it? Up to 500 kuna or is that increased maybe? No, I don't think so. Up to 500, right? For how many violations is a fine of 500 kuna? For what and how much? The law should monitor amendments to the Criminal Code where sanctions from those 500 have been raised to 5 thousand. Then it would make sense. Therefore, it is already limited to a small number of possible citizens who will be able to apply this. And now I'm going back to this article 13. Is it a good idea for the minister to rule it out? Why aren't there any interested in that? What will the rulebook do to make more room for work for the common good? What will the ministry or the minister or you sitting here on behalf of the ministry do to make it possible, after saying a measure of general good at freedom from 3 to 60 days, as the law provides for 3 to 60 days, to be implemented in a way that knows where to send it? For example, in each county there are about 5, 6, 10 legal persons and institutions with a capacity of no less than 150 people who will be able to execute this criminal sentence. So the law, as good as I am to the norm, with this rule and the ambiguities that will change in practice, how we will increase the interest of legal persons to accept people to such work will not be any progress, will remain as old, we will have a new law without possibility... And in the end, I ask, and why not with individuals? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's just legal? And individuals tend to maintain green areas, for example. It's legal activity, they got a job at the competition when the city called. Why just legal people? OPG, family agricultural economy, it's a natural person, not a legal one. So by defining institutions and legal persons, institutions and legal persons practically... a possible round of possible candidates where it would be conducted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is why I doubt that there will be more important progress in all of this, and that will be seen, say, or can be seen within a year of the adoption of this law, whether there will be a more significant shift in the expression of such measures because I remind you that in the explanation of one other law, it is visible that six years ago, all year round, if I do not cheat 630 such judgments, if I do. In six years. And those who are spoken in such a verdict are half of them not citizens. Therefore, and in reason of not a word about it and unfortunately the minister is not there, this good law will be blocked by the regulation because it will only again be a clear new administrative act, if indeed the executive board or what it is called in the ministry does not realize that it is cheaper than building new prison facilities and something will do to extend to both the possibility of physical persons and that someone is interested in being involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33856	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33857	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you gentlemen to the MPs for this truly comprehensive debate on a law that is apparently not so important and in any case not so content and scope great. But what we seem to think is that the opposite of a fellow Lesar law is certainly not ideal but in any case it is good. And we should trust that the regulation that the minister will prescribe will define the institutions where the institutions and legal persons, where this will be executed, will be executed and implemented by this institute. The fact that this institute is relatively little is used means that it needs to be encouraged and that courts should encourage it to accept it as much as possible and will be the task of this ministry in the next few months and the next year. In any case, it seems to us that all these remarks are good but that they are not really contrary to the applicant's intensities to regulate this area which has not really been sufficiently arranged so far and that it promotes it to respond in a quality way in the judicial system and to this not dilemma but this need, the modern need of time. What seemed good to us was to accept and accept the amendments of the Committee on Law because, in a legal technical sense, they actually better edit and define the institutes that we have arranged. There is so much, and it seems to us that the regulation will make a very good living in the execution of this sentence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33858	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33859	16. Final proposal for a law on the execution of work for the general good on freedom and conditional convictions with protective supervision in the infringement procedure. It was an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. No. 353. Proposer of the Law Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. In the course of the debate, the Proposer accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee and did not vote on it under Article 169. I am giving the Rules of Procedure the final draft law on the exercise of work for the general good on freedom and conditional convictions with protective supervision in the infringement procedure. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill was passed mostly by 101 votes for, 2 abstentions, nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33860	We go to the following point: - Final bill amending the law on general application items, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 349; The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, European Integration, Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Drazen Jurkovic will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33861	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, this is the Law amending the law on matters of general application. The National Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Accession of the European Union also provides for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Application in order to bring national legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union in Chapter I. "Freedom of movement of goods." That proposal aims to delete the provisions on cosmetics with a special purpose which the category is not regulated by the legal property of the European Union and also poses obstacles to the free movement of goods and objects of general application. I note that those provisions shall enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, thereby removing fully the obstacles to the free movement of general application cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33862	The Committee on Health and Social Care, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. At its 25th session, the Committee on Health and Social Care discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the law on general application matters with the Final Proposal for a Law. In its opening statement, the applicant’s representative pointed out that the applicable law on general application matters regulates the concept of the subject matter of general application and provides for a high level of protection of human health in that law. The proposed amendments ahead are part of the process of harmonising national legislation with the acquis of the European Union and harmonising with the provisions of the Food Act. In the debate, the committee members supported the proposed amendments. By erasing the provisions on cosmetics with a special purpose which is not regulated by the acquis of the European Union, compliance shall be carried out with the Treaty establishing the European Community and obstacles to the free movement of goods and articles of general application highlighted on the Committee shall be removed. The provisions of the proposed law in the cosmetics section with special purpose will take effect on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, allowing for flexible adaptation of national legislation, European Union legislation, the opinion of the members of the Committee. After the discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law amending the law on general application matters in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33864	I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33865	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending the Law on general application matters refers to the fact that in 2006 the Croatian Assembly adopted the Law on general application matters governing the concept of the subject of general application, the conditions to be met, the general conditions for the production and placing on the market, the systematic laboratory examination, the rights, duties and powers of the competent authorities in relation to the general application cases produced in the Republic of Croatia or imported and placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of this law apply to both raw materials and general use additives. In order to fully comply with Articles 28, 29 and 30 of the Treaty on European Community, the adoption of a law amending the Law on general application matters is envisaged in order to bring national legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union in Chapter 1 on freedom of movement of goods. That proposal amending the law aims to delete the provisions on cosmetics with a special purpose which the category is not regulated with the legal acquis of the European Union and also represents obstacles to the free movement of general application cases. In addition, it would only mention articles that change according to the applicable law. That is how Article 2 defines the concepts of the law and its meaning. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 16 speaks of persons in the manufacture of cosmetic products and cosmetics with special purpose. Article 17 refers to the obligations of the entity in the business of general application. Article 18 defines the laboratory tests of the health regularity of the subject matter of general use. Article 20 refers to samples. Article 21 speaks of the jurisdiction of the inspectorate. Therefore, this amendment and the addition of the law also lays down the terms of application of the same. The Croatian People's Party MPs' club will support changes and changes to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33866	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33867	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law, and the subject of general application are materials and objects that come directly into contact with food and objects of broad consumption. Materials and articles that come into direct contact with food are materials made of which objects from general use that come into direct contact with food. And the items that come into direct contact with food are dishes, accessories, equipment, devices, packaging that are done in food business. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions apply: Children's toys including products intended for infants and children under the age of three to facilitate feeding, sucking, calming and sleeping, and the product for adult entertainment. Cosmetic products, cosmetics with special purpose, means of reflecting cleanness in the household and industry, including those used in the manufacture and placing food on the market, disinfectants and... for home use, tobacco, even tobacco products, accessories that come in touch with mouth and mouth cavity, pipe, cigaretter, etc. I'm not happy to mention this, but that's what it's all about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Certain items and means that come into direct contact with the skin or mucous membrane when used. Therefore, it is fully evident from the above how many categories cover these items of general use and how broad and very important the same area is. And therefore, of course, it is necessary to keep it under surveillance and this is this mentioned law on general application matters of 2006. And this law therefore states that in order to protect the health of the public, the concept of the subject of general application is to be regulated, the conditions which must be met, the general application of the general conditions for the production and placing on the market of the objects, the system of control of the subject, the systematic laboratory examination to monitor health regularity, the subject of general application, the rights of duties and the powers of the competent authorities in relation to the subject of general application produced in the Republic of Croatia or imported on the market of the Republic of Croatia. So it can be said that it covers, of course, everything and that law has fully accepted new procedures regarding the standard of quality, the safety of the subject matter of general use in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health. Here's about health protection in this House of Highs has really been a lot of talk, about the cost of treatment, and also about the necessary means. Of course, it was also about smoking and non-smoking, the protection of non-smokers as well. So it is also necessary to mention it, and surely it is very important and important covered by this law. There is also the other part of course mentioned by the predecessors that is our harmonisation of legislation with EU legislation, compliance with the criteria. So in this respect, we are also following these changes that are now ahead of us. Therefore, in order to fully comply with Articles 28 and 30 of the Treaty on the European Community, the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union is foreseen by the adoption of law on general application matters in order to bring national legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union in Chapter 1. - freedom of movement of the edge. So it's all said, and here it's about a little change, it's about cosmetics with a special purpose. It's not a big procedure. And cosmetics with special purpose are preparations used on the skin or come into contact with mucous membranes and other parts of the body and have a systemic effect. And now these days when we hear about cosmetics other than the one with systemic activity, a lot of media is said that cosmetics has a lot of corticosteroids in it, etc. There's a public panic right now. And it's certainly in that part you need to explain it. But this is really about harmonisation, because this category is not about the legal gain of the European Union. And that's what this is about, and I would also feel free to say that it's about one cosmetic change in some way in three articles. Articles 14 and 16 and 17 to be deleted are simply deleted. So cosmetics with a special purpose and that would be settled. And what is important is to say, when it is first implemented that this law enters the date of Croatia's accession to the European Union, it is first except in Articles 5 and 6 which refer to inspection and Article 6 which speaks of laboratory surveillance where those reference laboratories are listed as reference laboratories. The second moment that is important to emphasise here is that on the day of Croatia's accession to the European Union, businesses are being controlled by the import of general use items from the Member States of the European Union are being transferred to internal traffic whose supervision is carried out by the Sanitary Health Authority inspection. Thirdly, on the date of the entry into force of the Republic of Croatia, a request to carry out the production and placing on the market of general application cases in the territory of the Republic of Croatia may be submitted by a legal or natural person established in any Member State of the European Union. Fourthly, on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia, the activity of production and placing on the market of objects of general application may be carried out by legal and natural persons established in any Member State of the European Union if they fulfil the conditions laid down by this law and regulations adopted under this law. On the fifth, on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia, legal and natural persons established in any Member State of the European Union shall submit a request for the performance of the activities of the production and placing on the market of general application items shall be recognised as equally valuable evidence in respect of the expertise, work experience, knowledge acquired, certificate of competence and expertise, beliefs or other documents, certificates, certificates issued by the competent authorities of those Member States of the European Union or other legal persons shall carry out tasks on the basis of public authority. This was the case with those laws on healthcare professionals, etc. So it may be unnecessary to repeat the same, but it is fully evident that this law will also improve this very important area, that what we said at the beginning of the high level of health care will also be ensured and therefore should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33868	Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33869	Dear Mr. Vice President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal for a law on general application items with the final proposal for a law under P.Z.E. 349. The question arises as to why this law is proposed by emergency procedure and is proposed to fully comply with Articles 28 to 30. Treaty on European Community. Namely, the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession of the European Union provides for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on general application matters in order to bring national legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union in Chapter 1. - Freedom of movement of the edge. This proposal aims to delete the provisions on cosmetics with a special purpose which the category is not regulated with the legal property of the European Union and also poses obstacles to the free movement of the subject of general application. There are three moments here. The first moment is the full harmonisation of legislation in this part, it is established as a prerequisite for the temporary closure of negotiations with the European Union in Chapter 1 under the heading freedom of movement of goods. The second moment is that further provisions of the legislative proposal need to be explicitly aligned with the provisions of the Food Act "National Journal" 46/07. and 155/08. in the part in which it relates to the activity of the reference laboratories. And the third moment, the proposed Law amending the law on general application matters respects the special time and process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and allows for the flexible adaptation of national legislation to European Union legislation. On Article 2, Col. Milinkovic fully explained the concepts. I will only highlight one moment and that is, as far as business is concerned with general use matters is in fact a business procedure regardless of whether it is taken for profit or not for public or private purposes within which transactions related to any stage of production, processing, storage, transport or distribution of the subject of general use are carried out. I will also highlight Article 14 which states that the Regulation on specific conditions for the production and placing on the market of general application items is brought by the Minister responsible for Health. And what I may not have noticed my colleagues said in front of me. Article 18 that laboratory tests on the health regularity of the subject of general use may be carried out under 1st test laboratories under 2nd reference laboratories. The laboratory tests referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may be carried out by health institutions or other legal entities. The Minister responsible for Health shall, on a proposal from the Reference Laboratory, adopt a minimum annual sampling programme for the systematic monitoring of the health validity of the subject-matter of the general application. With regard to supervision of the implementation of this law, the Ministry of Health is carrying out. The inspection of the implementation of this law in the exercise of production control and placing on the market of general use items shall be carried out by competent sanitary inspectors and border sanitary inspectors. The inspection of the declaration and quality of the subject-matter of the general use on the market shall be carried out by the economic inspectors of the State Inspectorate. The Croatian Democratic Union will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33870	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Drazen Jurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33871	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank the honourable MPs for accepting the amendments and the addition of this law. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall accept the amendments of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Council of the Republic of Croatia to Articles 6 and 12 of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33872	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33873	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the law on general application matters. The emergency procedure was P.Z.E. No. 349. Proposer of the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee which was adopted during the debate and is not voted on. I am voting on the final draft law amending the law on general application matters, please let us take part and vote. The result? This bill was adopted unanimously by 102 votes along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33874	Now we would have three points that are organically related, so he would suggest we conduct a united discussion. It is a proposal for an annual implementation, a solution on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2007 with the Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the 2009 statistical activities and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Statistics. This would be directed to conduct a united debate, to begin first with the 2007 Implementation Report, and then to propose a 2009 programme and then to propose amendments and amendments to the law. That looks like consent. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on official statistics, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 341 - Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2007 - Proposal for an annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2009 Please State Secretary Drazen Vikiæ Topić to explain this bill and these two programmes and plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33875	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and Mr. Representatives. As Mr. Vice President of the Parliament has said, I will briefly seek to explain these three points which are very closely connected to each other. Thus, the Annual Implementation Plan 2007 provides for the implementation of 282 statistical surveys and 63 other statistical activities in 16 authorised bodies. So it's about that rather extensive job. Other statistical activities concern professional methodological works and development projects aimed at harmonising, meaning harmonisation of Croatian statistics with statistics from the European Union. It's the key to what we're doing and this new bill of law. Projects are carried out over a period of many years, some of course, and it is not possible to display them collectively always. Most of the statistical activities are carried out by the State Statistics Institute, which is 164 statistical surveys and 53 projects. If I were not to burden you more with these numbers, I would point out in the end that all planned regular research according to the 2007 structural economic and production statistics programme of agriculture, forestry and fisheries were carried out according to plan. In parallel with regular research, projects were carried out in the field of statistics on plant production, livestock, small units and registers of agricultural holdings and agromonetary statistics. Of course, this is also the subject of the 2009 proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia. This paper is predicted in several subgroups and I will read very short names. So it's about classifications, it's part of the PHARE programme in 2006, it's planning to build a classification base where all statistical international national classifications that would use the Institute to collect data are stored. So then we have business registers. In 2009, there is a forecast and expansion of the statistical business register by adding a new statistical unit, a group of companies. Then we have population analysis. New activities to be carried out in the area of population statistics in 2009 are related to the preparation of censuses, households and dwellings in 2011. Then the labour market. Methodological development and calculation of the labour cost index were carried out during 2008. During 2009 ... regular quarterly calculation of the labour cost index according to EU regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So further harmonisation of our system statistically with the European system. Personal consumption and household consumption. We have health and security, justice and administration, national accounts, structural business statistics, short-term business statistics, money and finance, agriculture statistics, environmental protection, science and technology. There, he would still complete this brief review because it would be all the elements to be included in the 2009 plan. Thus, during 2008, the preparation of instruments for the implementation of statistical research in the budgetary allocations for research and development, the so-called board, and the implementation of the research planned in 2009 was launched now that everything was prepared for information and operationalisation. This was, of course, the same in the framework of the National PHARE Programme, which enabled significant development of statistics on science and technology in the Republic of Croatia on research on human resources in patent research and technology, research on high technology production branches and technology balances, as well as the introduction of a regional component in all these research in science and technology. Here, Mr. Vice President, that would be short for these two first points. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33876	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33877	Thank you very much. There you go, ladies and gentlemen. As I said, the law is actually nothing more than a complement of the existing and harmonisation of our statistical system with the statistical system of the European Community, so I will only briefly specify four points that are crucial for the amendment and addition of the Law on Official Statistics, with the final proposal of the law. So, this proposal suggests the following: a change in the legal position of the state administration's office in the county department relating to official statistics, so that this job is taken over by the State Statistics Office. As of 1 January 2010, officials and appointments of state administration offices in the counties doing these jobs are being taken over. Secondly, the number of members of the statistical council is increasing from 13 to 15 so that members of the statistical council become representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. In this way, a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Croatia is implemented. Thirdly, it is established unequivocally that, for the purpose of performing official statistics, the State Statistics Office has the right to use all administrative data sources and data to collect methods of monitoring the compensation that these consequences are administrative data sources and data for the request of official statistics holders without compensation, I apologize. Fourthly, that the State Statistics Institute and other official statistics holders may, under the conditions of a certain law, transfer individual statistics without the identifier to which the provisions of the Privacy Act and the protection of statistical data apply. I would conclude in the end, in accordance with the conclusion adopted at the 65th session of the Section for Economic Coordination held on 18 May 2009, in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Statistics, with the final proposal for a law, point 4 is amended as regards the grounds for the adoption of the laws under emergency procedure. And yet, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to conclude that we accept all these amendments that have been made and Mr. Vice President we accept all the amendments that have been made to the Statistics Act. ... Here, thank you very much. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] I've made it a little longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33878	No, no, nothing, though. Thank you very much. What about the committees? Legislative? European integration? Finance and the state budget? Gender equality? I'm opening a debate. HNS representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33879	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a quick reference to this law, I see we're all tired together, but just a little more patience. Therefore, the basic issues covered by the Law on Official Statistics are fundamental principles of official statistics, organisations, positions, jobs and coordination of official statistics systems. On the basis of Article 7. The law on official statistics offices of state administrations in the county and the administrative body of the City of Zagreb are in charge of official statistics. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Law on Official Statistics of the Office of State Administration in Countys and the Administrative Body of the City of Zagreb shall be responsible for the tasks of official statistics based on the content and time limits of a specific programme and the Annual Implementation Plan, shall be responsible for the collection, production, processing and dissemination of statistics, and for the processing of administrative data and data collected by the observation and monitoring method for the areas of the respective counties and the City of Zagreb, in accordance with the provisions of this Act. These bodies are not an integral part of the State Statistics Office, but make an important contribution. The assessment of official statistics in the Offices of State Administration in the county and units of the administrative body of the City of Zagreb in charge of official statistics affairs has shown that the current situation in relation to the tasks and development objectives that the statistical system must achieve in the next period is not satisfactory. More efficient allocation of human resources and information equipment within the statistical system in an effort to improve the quality of official statistics can only be ensured if state and county levels are involved. The current division of competence is not a good basis for improving the statistical system. In order to adapt Croatian statistics to European standards and to develop the statistical system of the Republic of Croatia, a new organisation of the State Department of Statistics and change the position and role of statisticians in the offices of the state administration in the counties responsible for official statistics services is needed. The new organisation of the statistical system of the Republic of Croatia, as proposed by this proposal, is a legal assumption for the realization of further tasks. The process of integration and restructuring of the state administration’s offices in the counties responsible for official statistics could take the next few years to take into account the complexity of the process itself as well as the role of the Office of State Administration in the counties responsible for official statistics’ activities in carrying out the list of population planned for 2011. The adoption of this bill will ensure a better organisation and further development of the statistical system of the Republic of Croatia as an extremely important segment of European integration in line with European Union regulations and tailored national needs. Finally, I would only mention that the implementation of this bill does not require funding, except for the means of information to be planned in the offices of the state administration in the counties, i.e. in the division of the Central State Administration Office, to plan for the divisional National Statistics Office. Therefore, the Club of HNS Representatives will support such a proposal to amend and amend the Law on Official Statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33880	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33881	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Madam and Gentlemen Representatives. Here is a brief review of the 2007 report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. An important element of this Report is contained in the fact that the implementation plan of statistical activities carried out by the State Statistics Office in cooperation with other official statistics holders is a continuation of compliance with the standards of the European Union. The annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2007 provides for the implementation of 282th regular statistical research and 63 other statistical activities related to expert methodological works and development projects aimed at harmonising Croatian statistics with European Union statistics. Furthermore, in 2007, the State Statistics Institute launched various activities both domestically and abroad, and in this respect it worked to adapt existing and develop new research in the area of population statistics, labour market, education, research and development culture, personal consumption and justice and administration. Special improvements in 2007 were achieved with regard to the reliability of data and their availability on websites. During 2007, activities were carried out that provided some of the most wanted data such as annual and quarterly gross domestic product with all components, regional gross domestic product at county level, prices indices. Some of the important macro-economic aggregates such as savings, investments, available income and others. I will list only two important newspapers that took place during these activities in 2007 where it is evident that the quality and volume of statistics is increasing from year to year. For example, the labour force survey carried out in accordance with the methodological rules and principles of the International Labour Organisation and Eurostat. '96. And in 97, she was only once a year, and since '98. She spent the year until 2006 on a continuous monthly basis. Since 2007, labour force polls have been conducted continuously, weekly throughout the year. The results of the survey conducted by this survey are published three months ago, and the data collected are obtained from demographic and educational characteristics of household members, characteristics of the main and additional work carried out by the person in the past, working hours, activity and others. In 2007, a labour cost database was prepared and delivered to Eurostat. The programme MB Phar 2005 which started in January 2007 also included the calculation of the labour cost index. The necessary variables for the calculation are set, and the data for the calculation will be downloaded from existing research by the State Statistics and Tax Administration. Furthermore, when we talk about annual, the proposal for the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2009, of course, it is important to note that the implementation of 277 regular statistical surveys and 78 other statistical activities relating to expert methodological works and development projects aimed at harmonising Croatian statistics with statistics of the European Union. The total appropriations provided for, therefore, and necessary for the implementation of this year's implementation plan for 2009 will, of course, be provided from the state budget, amounting to just over 108 million kuna. Of course, the Croatian Democratic Community club fully supports the proposal for the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 and the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. I will now take a brief look at the Law on Official Statistics, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Statistics. The Law on Official Statistics is fully in line with the requirements of the legal property of the European Union and with the basic principles of official statistics of the United Nations and of the European Union. Official statistics provide impartially and in accordance with the basic principles of official statistics to the State, the economy and the public reliable statistics on economic, demographic, social, health and environmental conditions and ensure that the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia relating to the production and dissemination of official statistics are met. In the current Law on Official Statistics, which has been applicable since 2003 to official statistics on the monitoring of areas of the county, i.e. the City of Zagreb, public administration offices in the county and the administrative body of the City of Zagreb are responsible. It is important to stress that these bodies are not an integral part of the State Statistics Institute, but make an important contribution, and they currently employ 199 statisticians in the offices of the state administration and 34 statisticians in the administrative body of the City of Zagreb. The current situation in relation to the tasks and development objectives that the statistical system needs to be achieved in the next upcoming period has proved to be not satisfactory. An increase in the quality of official statistics can only be ensured if the state and county level is included, which means that the current division of competence is not a good basis for improving the statistical system. Due to further adaptation of Croatian statistics to European standards and to the improvement of the overall system of statistics, a new organisation of the State Statistics Institute is necessary and changes in the position and role of statisticians in the offices of the state administration, in the counties responsible for official statistics affairs. The main problems of the Office of State Administration in the counties in matters of official statistics arise from the unclear institutional status under which formal-legal staff performing these tasks belong to the Office of State Administration in the County, and the tasks carried out are within the jurisdiction of the State Statistics Office. Such status results in a lack of mutual professional, staff, education, material and other support. Following an analysis of the state and data collected in the offices of the state administration in the counties responsible for official statistics, the possibilities for improving efficiency and economics in the collection and processing of statistics have been identified. That is why this bill provides that the work of the Office of State Administration in Countys in the section relating to official statistics affairs is being taken over by the State Statistics Office on 1 January 2010. Officials and deputies of the Office of State Administration who carry out official statistics shall also be taken over. Furthermore, the right to use business premises used by officials and subsistence officers in official statistics and all equipment, food and other documentation by 1 January 2010. Another newspaper proposed by this law is that according to the recommendation of the Special Unit for HITROREZ, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have a total of 15 members. This is all for reasons, since craftsmen are an important part of the economy, it is proposed that the Croatian Chamber of crafts also has a representative in the council. In addition, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship collects data for the purposes of analysis and monitoring the effects of small economy and economy promotion measures in general, and because of the very large and important impact of the economy, it is also proposed to appoint a member of the ministry in the statistical council. The adoption of this bill will provide a much better organisation, but also further development of the statistical system, which is why the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33882	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33883	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, no doubt statistics are important for planning, for analysis, for making strategic decisions and many people who have the opportunity to manage the use of reports and communications from the Bureau of Statistics in order to make their decisions and with the help of what our Statistics Office does. The famous British statesman Winston Churchill said that there are lies, great lies and statistics alluding to the fact that many people say about statistics in different ways interpret them. We also had such cases in our political practice, for example during the coalition government, in different ways the ruling and opposition represented the height of external debt. So they read from the same data that the condition was good, and the other was disastrous. Then the stakes changed, and then those who read that the situation was disastrously suddenly found reasons to say that the situation was good, and these others warned that the situation was the same, if not worse than it was before. But we do have a case, the latest case, so that so-called. Creative political statistics from this year, and this is how the State Statistics Institute last week calculated the amount of minimum wage with the government's blessing. In fact, during the adoption of the laws according to how the government explained to parliamentarians and that it was unequivocal, the amount of minimum wage should be 3013.07 kuna, and according to the calculation of the State Statistics Office, it is 2814 kuna. Therefore, it is a difference of 199 kuna and some lip, and as such users have about 70 thousand, it is clear that such a creative political calculation saves employers 14 kunas a month at the expense of the most socially endangered Croats. In order not to be seen in the parliamentary debate, our colleague Lesar, who gave the amendment to that fact on May 29, 2008 and the government representative said that the calculation of the salary should be 3 thousand and 13 kuna, not 2 thousand 814 kuna, so the calculation is exactly like that and there is no dilemma. But when the law was applied, the law suddenly began to apply as it did to employers. For example, in 2008, it was said, it is clear that the growth of the minimum wage is, therefore, the share of minimum wage growth, the share of minimum wages in the average salary is growing, and it is clear that it is the coefficient to be obtained from which the minimum wage is then increased. But a year later, however, the government is trying to prove that it is now right and that the law is now questionable. So, apart from being given a dubious bill, and then after they refused the amendment with the reason that it was unequivocal, now at the expense of the most socially vulnerable workers, the employers were saved out of their 14 million kuna pockets. And now we're talking about negotiating. In this very example, we have seen how statistics are exactly what Churchill will say, and what many others say. Some say it's the exact sum of incorrect data, it would be more accurate if the incorrect sum was sometimes the incorrect sum of accurate data. In the hope that the 2009 statistical research programme will be dominated by professional, not political statistics, the SDP club will support the 2009 programme, the 2007 report and the proposal for a Law on Official Statistics, which will transfer these people from the county to the State Statistics Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33884	Thank you very much. Would you like some? Not anymore. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And these three points of the agenda. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for the Regulation of the Market in Railway Services, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wires for the Transport of Persons. And maybe if those three points are absorbed with point 37, why do we already have the conditions 'el, the Annual Defence System preparedness report. And probably around 13.00 hours of voting tomorrow on the debated agenda points. And then after the holidays at 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-18-0.u33885	19. Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2007, the Government is the applicant. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2007 is hereby adopted. Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal for a conclusion. The result? This proposal for a conclusion was accepted by the majority of the vote 91 votes for, 4 abstentions, nothing against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue to work in the extremely poor participation of MPs and MPs this morning. ... With the hope that things will improve over the course of the day, because they might have scheduled a vote somewhere, so that clubs can invite MPs somewhere half one to one. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We move to the agenda point announced as the first today, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets in Railway Services with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 357 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Branimir Jerneic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
