ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, this proposed law or amendments thereto shall be governed by the payment of a special tax on passenger cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft imported or sold in the Republic of Croatia and also by the payment of a specific sales tax on used passenger cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft which buy or acquire legal or natural persons. What changes, what are the most important changes? First of all, in terms of taxation by special taxes on vessels and aircraft, so far the base of taxation for vessels has been expressed in meters and for aircraft the number of seats. These amendments to the laws leveled the criteria for taxation with passenger cars and motorcycles, and the tax base is now determined according to value. The tax base constitutes a selling price, of course without the value added tax, which comes at the end, i.e. when importing a customs base increased by the amount of customs duty. So the quantitative indicators are replaced by the values. The proposed amendments to the law also added new price classes with corresponding levels of special tax. I note, therefore, that so far the last class has been over 350,000 kuna, but three additional classes are now being introduced, with the last one above 500 thousand. According to these changes, on the basis of the sales price between 350 and 400 thousand kuna, the specific tax is fixed at 98 000 and 48% at over 350. Next class between 400 and 450 thousand, paying a fixed amount of 122 thousand kuna plus 53% at over 400 thousand kuna. The third added class is between 450 and 500 thousand kuna, with a fixed amount of special tax of 148.5 thousand kuna, 58% to over 450 thousand. And finally the last class at all values or on all bases p over 500 thousand kuna is paid at a fixed amount of 177.5 thousand kuna plus 63% at an amount of over 500 thousand. This law also proposes that the subsequent payment of a specific tax on the increased value of a vessel which occurred because, at the time of import, the delivery of a vessel did not have an installed or uninstalled or off-board engine. So, for example, there was a power engine less than the engine that was later installed on the vessel in question. The specific tax will be paid before the vessel registration, so that registration will not be possible without proof of the specific tax paid. It is also important to mention that a revised definition of the subject matter of taxation of new passenger cars and motorcycles imported is also possible, thus complying with the customs legislation. A new personal car or motorcycle is considered that car and motorcycle that has never been registered, where the year of manufacture is not important. You know, in our current law, we've had those years. Thus, when importing a new passenger car and motorcycle, if it had already been registered, it would have paid a special tax as per the vehicle used. Therefore, the level of the special tax would be determined as for a new car or motorcycle, and would increase by 50%, i.e. for private cars, by a cylinder of more than 1600 cubic cm and by a motorcycle of more than 250 cubic cm by 100%. We have also finally amended this law, or we propose an amendment in terms of increasing the amount of fines for offences committed. The lower limit of fines from 500 kuna so far is increasing to 5 thousand, and the upper limit from 50 thousand to 500 thousand. In this law, we can finally say, so what we want to achieve is, above all, equalising the criteria of taxation, so between cars, motorcycles, vessels and aircraft, also taxation towards the economic power of the taxpayer, and among other things by increasing these levels of fines, we can also count on a slightly greater expected fiscal impact. In the very explanation, we have therefore stated that the expected effect at an annual level is about 150 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38227	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the 38th session held on 27 July 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Act amending the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, with the final proposal of the law and as a parent working body. Introductoryly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the proposal to amend this law refers to certain changes in the amount of special tax, to taxation of new and used passenger cars and motorcycles, and to vessels and aircraft. The criteria for taxation of vessels and aircraft with passenger cars and motorcycles shall be evened, and the tax base shall now be determined according to the value rather than to the length of the vessel, i.e. according to the number of seats as before for the aircraft. Physical indicators are replaced by values, which raises the degree of fairness of taxation, i.e. the additional increased character of taxation towards economic strength. An increase in the amount of fines for offences committed is also proposed, and the implementation of this law is expected to increase revenues in the state budget to 150 million kuna annually and 30 million kuna in 2009. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget commends the new draft amending the law, in particular because the basis is changed, taking into account the rational basis, the value, not the length of the vessel and the introduction of new tariffs, especially in the case of fixed fees, but also the latest most important, and these are penalties for non-compliance in the event of an infringement. The Finance and Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament supported the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt this law by emergency procedure and decided by majority vote, 7 for, 2 against the adoption of the Law amending the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38229	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38230	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to remind you that about a month ago, by adopting the Taxation Act, we have implemented the harmonisation of Croatian excise legislation with the same legislation of the European Union, but only regarding alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, energy and electricity, so for those products which are taxed also in the European Union. In addition to the products listed, Croatia collects excise duties, whether or not specific taxes and on coffee, luxury products, non-alcoholic beverages, private cars and other motor vehicles, and on vessels and aircraft, unlike the European Union, which do not collect excise duties on these products. Today, we are discussing a legislative proposal that would increase excise duties on cars and other motor vehicles and on vessels and aircraft as one of the proposed anti-recession measures, and since it is an anti-recession measure, then this law is also adopted by an emergency procedure. As much as an increase in the tax anti-recession measure could be, we talked about it yesterday when we discussed the VAT law because when the tax increases and the price rises, and the consequence is to refrain from buying. On the other hand, the reduction in sales results in a reduction in revenues in the state budget. However, the application of this law is expected to have a certain fiscal impact. According to estimates, the secretary of state said, an additional 150m kuna per year should be made available to the state register. The effectiveness of the application of this law should also contribute to a significant increase in the amount of fines. When I say a significant increase, then I note that it is about the fact that the penalties are mostly tenfolded and that, with the effect of restrictiveity, will also contribute to the increase of the country's budget revenues. While I am already talking about the fiscal effects of the application of this law, I must say that the revenues from excise duty on cars in the first quarter of this year have been reduced by as much as 41% compared to the same income in the first quarter of 2008 and this fact is certainly one of the reasons why this law was being amended. The aim of these changes is to increase the level of taxation, i.e. taxation against the economic power of the taxpayers, which means that buyers of expensive cars, motorcycles, vessels and aircraft would certainly pay a higher tax. And just briefly about the content of these legal changes. First of all, new passenger cars and motorcycles that are imported are defined as subject of taxation according to customs regulations in such a way that new passenger cars, i.e. motorcycles, are considered to be those cars or motorcycles that have never been registered and where, of course, the years of production does not matter, or has no impact. Furthermore, the equalization of tax bases of all subject matter has been carried out. It means cars and motorcycles and boats and aircraft, both sad and importable to their value. So far, there have been differences in the tax base with respect to the length of the vessel, and in the case of the aircraft, the number of seats. Thus, the tax base for the calculation of a specific tax constitutes a selling price without VAT in the case of a domestic tax case and the customs value increased by the amount of customs duty, if applicable, in the case of an imported tax case. A specific tax on all subject matter of taxation shall be paid in a fixed amount according to the price classes, with the addition of new price categories with increased values to this legislative proposal as well as the percentages of the amount of the part of the tax rate above the above limit of the previous price class. For vessels, it is prescribed that the excise duty must be subsequently calculated on the added increased value of the vessel which at the time of import, i.e. had no installed engine or the installed engine had less power than that which was subsequently installed. Without the special tax paid, it is not possible to register a vessel. It is important here to stress that personal cars and motors on electric power plants have been released from paying a special tax. Finally, only a note that the provision on the payment of a specific sales tax used, hence old cars and other motor vehicles and vessels and aircraft has not been changed, so on used cars, motorcycles, boats, yachts, boats and aircraft, and a rate of 5% will continue to be paid. In view of the fact that this legislative proposal simplifies the collection of special taxes on cars, motorcycles, vessels and aircraft through an increased level of fines, it ensures stronger discipline and more effective application of the law. And finally, what is most important in these times of crisis highlights the principle of taxation towards the economic strength of the taxpayers. Now, these are the reasons why the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38231	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38232	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The law on special taxes on personal cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft that we have today on benches and which we are changing falls under a number of other laws in the laws of a type of emmenter. Namely, that law is full of holes. We see that 150 million kunas were leaking through those holes, and so much less came into the budget because of what was in that law and made it possible to avoid paying taxes. I'd just like to ask you colleagues and colleagues, who were those holes left for? How'd you pay your taxes? Taxes for vessels per metre of vessels. So a 15-metre fisherman and a 15-metre luxury yacht, same base. Is this left to make it easier for workers to get to the boat on 3 May? Planes. How did they tax themselves? Four-seat agricultural and superluxurious tycoon rides to Dubai pay the same tax. Is this so that Slavonic farmers can easily get to agricultural planes, that they can spray their agricultural goods? My colleagues and colleagues, but we can see that the government knows very well what these emental laws are, and when the water comes to the throat, it's these emental laws that come out of the drawer, and they patch up the holes. Clearly, this year's impact and next year's impact on this law will be significantly lower in years of recession compared to 3, 4 or 5 years ago. Then it would be 150, perhaps more than 200, 250 million kuna, clear for the budget, but then it was necessary to help clearly your friends, nephews, tycoons that finance these or those political options, and now you need to save the budget through and through this clearly and your armchairs. My colleagues and colleagues, there's nothing left for us but to support this law. We also heard from colleagues from the SDP, and they will do so, but it is also unfortunate that this law comes to our benches in July 2009 at an extraordinary session, I repeat, when the water came to the throat. That's not how it works. That's not good. There are even holes like that that allowed someone to get to their yacht, to completely avoid tax and buy a special trough, imported it and then built a cabin and engine in Croatia and ate a donkey wolf. These kind of emmenters of the law are likely to be a large number on our benches for the next few months. Citizens will finally see how it was done and who, in essence, those laws were adapted to, whose needs, whether the needs of citizens or someone else. So the HNS club will support the law, but we are sorry that it comes to our benches only now at an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament in July this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38233	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38234	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State and Associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here is another law that is directly related to the final rebalancing of the state budget that was on the parliamentary benches in the debate this week, and whose adoption we expect by the end of the week, and accordingly it is tied to certain... the measures taken to bring this rebalancing part of the revenue and expenditure side into line, and accordingly is one of the four concrete measures which have been taken with this rebalancing and done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So just to remind you that these measures are related to the introduction of a special tax on wages, pensions and other receipts, that it is related to fees for providing services in electronic communications, that they are related to the Law with an increase in VAT, and therefore finally, as this topic we are talking about, is related to equalising the criteria of taxation of vessels and aircraft with personal cars and motorcycles, which is also the topic that I am talking about right now. And right away, I would like to say in the context of work materials and suggestions that this law is also intended to go and progressively towards it, I dare say purchasing power, and above all, according to the value of the vessel of the car or motorcycles, and that is how it affects those who are richer, and in this way we can also make a positive determination about it. In particular, the proposal for an amendment relates primarily to certain changes in the level of specific taxation taxes, both new and used passenger cars, motorcycles, and vessels and aircraft prescribed in Article 6. Special Tax Act. Therefore, as my predecessors have said in accordance with this proposal, the criteria of taxation of a vessel whose tax base was determined according to the length expressed in meters and aircraft whose tax base was determined by the number of seats are uniformly taxed so that the tax base for all those products is now determined according to their value. What is still to be said is that this special tax is paid at a fixed amount, determined according to the belongings of taxation to individual... i.e. the basics, and are extended by adding increased values and a prescribed percentage to the amount of taxation price exceeding the lower limit of a given price class. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also important to mention here a new definition of new passenger cars and motorcycles carried out under customs regulations according to which a new passenger car and motorcycle are imported, and certainly that car and motorcycle are considered a subject of taxation that has never been registered before, where the years of production are not of particular and important importance. It is important to point out once again that these changes further boost taxation towards the economic strength of the taxpayers. This means that customers of the above mentioned goods from motorcycles to vessels, both in relative and absolute terms, what is purchased more expensive, and these taxpayers bear a higher tax burden. And so economic power comes especially to expressions, and thus and precisely economically stronger legal and physical persons pay even greater obligations. Also when we talk about the revenue and disbursement side of the budget, which is why one part of this law here as a proposal, the Ministry of Finance is saying that an annual inflow of around 150 million kuna is expected within the revenue side of the budget, so speaking through a one-year period. Certainly, when it comes to vessels, it is therefore important to say that the arrangement of the payment of a specific tax is particularly regulated for non-installed vessels, which do not have an off-board engine, and in the context of, or during, the time of import, or delivery, and that the special tax is subsequently charged on such vessels at the first registration, at the competent customs office, which means that it is not possible to register only such a vessel without such a tax. Of course, further to this law is closer and I explained the subject of taxation from personal cars themselves, motorcycles to vessels, and in an unequivocally clear way, it explains the subject of taxation itself, and in a special way also explains the tax base itself where the sales price itself is found to be the tax base of the special car and motorcycle tax. And the sales price itself within the meaning of this law is the price without value added tax, and in the case of imports, the tax base is the customs base which is increased by the amount of customs duties. Certainly, at the end or at the end, we realize that it has been observed that the processing of this topic is insufficiently high and the criminal provisions that have two essential characteristics above all. So one way is to discipline taxpayers in those goods, first of all we think about vessels where so far there has been a total mess of both importing registrations and one part of the use of those black charters and so on. Thus, such increased criminal provisions want to introduce order in both the purchase and registration of those vehicles from the car to the vessels and ships. And in this way I think that it has a very good impact on one smaller part of the budget itself. Given that and the adoption of this law is both direct and budget rebalanced, it feels with its revenue side. I can conclude that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38235	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38236	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Here's my predecessor from HDZ asking himself why are these criminal provisions so mild? So why should they punish the elite? They can't be touched. The poor girl who worked on Sundays was supposed to have her skin ripped out. Those who light a cigarette in a catering facility and should be punished, but those who smuggle on yachts etc. They need to be spared clearly. Who's paying these special charges that we've been talking about in this House for a few days? So it is clear that these crisis taxes will be paid by the Croatian poor, and on the other hand, who will not pay those taxes will not pay the elite. Who pays these taxes? Here we go. Those 2% on the salary of 720 thousand 167 workers plus 247 thousand 323 pensioners. That 4% pays 310 thousand 352 workers plus 42,000 and some pensioners. A total of million 319 thousand 842 citizens will still be covered by the criminal tax plus 4.5 million people of the Republic of Croatia who will pay 1% higher VAT. Now, we can say that these crisis taxes are paid by most workers, now will be paid by local self-government and unemployed and pensioners, and they will not pay these special taxes, say, by shareholders on sales, by managers for sale of players, by buyers of expensive yachts, by limos, by airplanes, because they will be refused today, by artists who, on TV soaps, earn millions of kunas who buy villas in Istria and elsewhere, also by priests, because they do not receive wages, but also receive compensation and so on. I understand the opportunities in Croatia, we sink and then it is understandable as well to introduce some new taxes. So, for example, by tax on salaries and pensions and other receipts, this year should bring a budget of 755 million kuna, in the year ahead of us around 2 million kuna, by increasing the VAT rate to 23% in 2009, the budget will bring about around 500 million kuna, the annual effect is a billion and a half million kuna, by amending the Taxation Act on Cars, aircraft, vessels, this is the law that is now in question. By the end of the year, about 30 million kunas could be made there, at an annual level of about 150 million kuna. The unemployment fee, for example, increased 22% in June. If the government has decided to cut the compensation which is embarrassing, the savings will be 15 million kuna this year. Total cost means fees are reduced at an annual level of 127 million kuna, to 1 billion kuna and 80 million kuna. And don't let me count on it. What is later, it is support for the preservation of jobs. That's where 200 million kunas will need to be allocated from the budget. And that's certainly a good thing. I keep asking myself how it is possible for one Croatia to keep going down and I told this speaker a few days ago that a small Montenegro is and we call ourselves the leader of the Western Balkans. So, in Montenegro, the pension went up twice this year, first 3%, and now about two and a half percent. That means somewhere in the first half of the year 6 to 7%. There's a pension going down in Croatia. How is that possible? Here is now and one Serbia has begun to take a Croatian approach to the European Union and now we see how credible we and they are that I do not speak any further. But let's let it go now where it's all going. I have the impression that there may be parliamentary elections ahead of us before the presidential elections will take place, but perhaps at another time. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How? ... The impression can cheat. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I don't know, God forbid it happens. Clearly, if that happens then the opposition must accept this challenge and rebuild the Croatian house because it would be difficult for you gentlemen in HDZ to lead the government and to make it easy for the opposition. When it's so hard to run a government, why everyone's so feverishly struggling to run this country. So how do you build this Croatian house from the beginning? All institutions from the Parliament should be reorganised, there should not be 152 deputies here, from the government, not be 19 ministries or as many as there are until the Office of the President of the State, from agencies to local self-government, from public companies to non-profit funds, etc. So this law brings 30.5 million kuna in 2009. In 2010, it would take 150 million kuna, but I doubt those figures. That's certainly a little bit, but let's do something again. It says that somehow we used all the reserves. We see that special taxes are introduced on SMS phones, we take even the unemployed, we save as much as we can to save, soon a capital tax is likely to be introduced. If we're gonna tax interest, I don't know. Careful with the property tax. Why? For more citizens in Croatia, for example, owns an apartment in their own possession than in Germany, Italy or one Austria. Why is that? Because of the social housing we've been buying or buying, I don't, 90, 91 for 5, 6, 7 thousand marks, etc. Unfortunately, those who are not likely to have such an opportunity will never have. It's not fair, but it is. But no one wonders if the tycoons should ask where they got that first million marks or euros, or if I don't know the dollars. It's not enough just to introduce these taxes now. How is it possible that no one would ask them anything? How is it possible that we don't have, say, taxation of monopoly or taxes on tourist land? The law will be later but in the first reading debated what they will say that this year, none of them will pay a single kuna to whom neither the poor one nor the poor one will pay. This tax that we're talking about right now, I'm afraid when we're going to cut car sales to some extent, individuals aren't going to buy Audi, BMW, they're going to buy Passat or I don't know what. But you know why I'm saying that? I come from a city that last year had $114 million exports, only 6 thousand residents. So in my Buzet, there's an export per capital of about 20 grand. One small Buzet with 6 thousand inhabitants 3, 4 times more exports than the entire Dubrovnik-Neretva County. For Dubrovnik the bridge is built, I also agree it would be better to build that bridge for Peljesac than one handball hall if nothing makes the value of the property around that bridge grow, why not. But I ask myself who for the needs of the Istrian export economy will build the train tunnel Učka or Ćicicarija because they tell me from Dubrovnik it is clear if you want to come to Zagreb you have to cross over another country 12, 13 kilometers as far as Neuma is there and we in Istria if we go to the railway to take goods to the other end of Croatia we have to go 200 kilometers through Slovenia and extend our journey by 50, 70 kilometers and automatically that a series of goods is less competitive than it would be if we had that train tunnel. But what's the point of me telling this law? One Buzet "Cimos" i.e. The Croatian car industry exports about as many car parts as it imports. That was the principle that existed somewhere in Buzet by the end of 2004, it has changed a little. So the smaller imports of cars will be smaller exports. That specifically meant Buzet, the Cimos, the Citroen. So I certainly won't buy a car of 300 or 400,000 kuna, unfortunately not even 200, but so this doesn't get in our heads in any way. The yacht will not be bought by anyone in its name. It was absurd to say that the excise duty on a yacht of 20 meters like that "Little Vitre" was paid at 165 thousand kuna as much as on a small fishing boat or on a small boat. Some will say that VAT on yachts is not paid, if you buy it at the company, you pay the VAT and write it off later, but it is everywhere, if someone raises the economy by that investment. Since I've never been on any yacht, I don't care about yachts, but some of those charters, and that should also be said, complete the tourist offer and without any sailboat or any motorboat or tourism can't go. I'll do it again, I don't care about those yachts, but this is up to "Cimos" but also a few more of these Croatian, let's say, car industrial systems like "Munja", "A.D. Plastics" etc. I care very much. As far as IDS is concerned, IDS will also vote for this law. I'm going to repeat once again that the taxes, unfortunately, don't pay the elite. Taxes in this country usually pay for the poor, so workers, local administration, unemployed now, pensioners, and I think the elite will get away with it again normally. It is not fair, but unfortunately in Croatia it is. So, IDS will vote for this bill, but on the other hand, without us increasing the consumption of small people, I'm afraid with these new taxes, it doesn't say well. And how can we meet them? To introduce a differentiated rate of 10% VAT on domestic food, electricity, gas, water. In one word, if we want and the revenue in the budget you have bigger we will have to increase consumption. Because of some other budgetary inability, I'm reading now, for example. For example, if the HAC comes to credit, it's easily possible in the year ahead of us to expect a roadblock. The European Bank, we read today, does not want to finance the Podravska Ipsilon or highway to Sisak. In this way they can probably fall out of next year's programme not only Podravski ipslon but also the bridge on Drava, Doli-Dubrovnik road, Zagreb-Sisak, total of four investments planned at 8.17 billion kuna. Otherwise, on the other hand, and it will hit largely, I would say, that consumer or income-related side of the Croatian budget. Anyway, let me just say, just this morning I was pulling some data from 2001 to 2007. Croatia opened 487km of highway, Slovenia 142km of highway. Now you should see how much is in this and foreign loans. For Slovenians, no kuna or any of their prior to the tolar or the euro or I don't know what. All in all, we also see gas consumption falling 20% compared to 2008, and all this says that we're not writing well, and it falls and sells cars in the 5th month by 66% compared to the 5th month of 2008 and so the question is, what are the effects of a tax like this? All in all, we will vote in favour of this bill, but I'm afraid some of the particular effects will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38237	Thank you very much. You know what, as certain things are repeated here to infinity, it's dangerous to call for restrictions on fundamental rights and freedom of man and citizen, so that it sails across the Adriatic in registered yachts. At least it was one man, and the other hundreds of thousands are not interested in what they're sailing. Can you think of anything else? This has already been licked so much that it's more boring for everyone to listen. Let a man rest, for being driven by you and the media. On behalf of the HSLS club, Mr. Ivan Chehok. Here you go. Come on, stop it. It's humiliating.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38238	Mr. President, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We, both as a club and as a social liberal party, have already made several statements about this, the latest in the debate on budget rebalancing and the budget for last year, aware of the fact that the burden of this crisis needs evenly on the principle of social justice, justice, to bear all. Since social justice also requires the equal distribution of the burden of submitting the crisis to all citizens, we have also been of the opinion today that it is necessary to finally determine what are luxury goods or what is the consumption of those goods and services that we might call social luxury or personal luxury in consumption, which, of course, depends on some kind of system of social values or social values which unfortunately is very difficult to distinguish and recognize in Croatia. Since there is often one official or we can say so public scale and another private or other hidden, it is quite certain that in a country where you look at the average habits of the population, the latest data suggests that each of our primary schoolmates or 80% of our primary schoolmates from 6th to 8th grade own mobile phones, which is above the European average or that over several years, those golden years of low interest rates we were recordrs after buying a car by the number of residents or, say, already known data that alcohol drinks are being used in Croatia or, for example, cigarettes. So, of course, you need to think about what actually is a social luxury or a luxury in personal consumption, which is some kind of good and service that we might call common spending or personal spending. Our opinion, it is good that it started with a special tax precisely on private cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, because they also have the most impact on the external debt of the Republic of Croatia, given that we are all aware that a lot of these bank loans that were raised by citizens have been raised precisely for vehicles, for vessels, for certain other goods and services that we may not be able to call normal or daily goods and services. It is absolutely certain that Croatia, which is in a crisis like this, but also because of a demented system of values, I have already spoken of, should consider higher excise duties, therefore not only on the taxation of luxury. We are indeed a country where it is amazing that the tax revenue has been dropped for several years and in the price of oil products, even in excise duties when it comes to alcoholic beverages or when it comes to cigarettes. Amazingly, I can testify from the local level that in the days of the biggest tourist traffic you can't actually record the growth of consumption or excise duty, which actually says... which local self-government has the right, so what it says is that tax invasion is quite high, which says that we do not have the means of supervision and collection and in some way makes it impossible or makes it difficult for us to use these excise duties and excise duties for what we might call priority on a scale of value. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An example was mentioned here of Scandinavian countries which today are the most social countries in Europe, which are looking for their ways and now coming out of this recession that hit some more, some smaller ones, and it is quite certain that the examples of these countries show that just high excise duties, for example, on alcoholic beverages considered a luxury or high excise duty on cigarettes are actually being poured into the state register, the state budget in such a way as to finance education. I don't think there's really any obstacle to us raising excise duties on a pack of cigarettes and financing education or what we're going to call or declare on a scale of social values essential. I will also mention the often highlighted example that today in Croatia in cities where unemployment is 20 or 25% you can't sit on the terrace in the morning, because they're all full, but that because if you want to sit in one Sweden or Norway in the city center, not only will you have places to sit but you will be able to lie down and lie down because there is no one on the terraces because, of course, the price of coffee is average in Norway, for example, 40 or 45 kuna, that I am not talking about the price of alcoholic beverages. But that is why they are financed, they have one of the best welfare systems, a system of state and public subsidies, a system of state or public scholarships for higher education, etc. Therefore, we will certainly need to think about this and that, by tax, or excise duty and luxury tax, we finance something that I say on a scale of social values and according to the principle of social justice, we can call social priorities such as, in my opinion, education is quite certain. What is not good, of course we can pass this law, but we all know that reality often resists administration and then, of course, those who spend luxury goods are looking for holes in laws or looking for opportunities to avoid paying taxes on luxury taxation. This is the fact that, unfortunately, so far in Croatia, we have not found ways to effectively monitor them, to track down those who, for example, used vessels or private vehicles for their own purposes, but have reported them under other needs or under some basic means and thus avoided paying taxes, reported it to companies. I think the ministry and the entire state inspectorate need to find more effective ways to put an end to it. In Croatia, it must be known what goods are for or what they are for personal consumption, which are crafts or other capital resources for business, business, activity, core activity, etc. Therefore, I think that with this law, the ministry will need urgent and all inspection services to strengthen supervision because again this is actually going to raise tax evac, we're going to raise a real waste of tax resources, fiscal resources, and in some ways we're going to get even more into a gray economy zone in which of course we won't even know what the real effects of this law are. So, of course, with my say, I would immediately ask the Ministry to report to us within 3 or 4 months which are the funds and in what way the funds have been raised, how much more the funds have been raised and how this supervision has been strengthened, that is, whether these luxury goods and services are used for their own personal needs, whether they are therefore personal or used for their basic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38239	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38240	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Well, I have to say, in this law, it's a controversial time to bring it, the time when the water came to the throat and when it was about filling the budget, that is. This law depends and fills the budget for the next 2 months. Because I say next, you'll see from the debate. And that's why I'm extremely sorry that yesterday's debate on the increase in value added tax was not until 8 p.m. hidden from the public eyes, because I'm going to remind you that it's 2003. The HDZ pre-election programme was a reduction in VAT from 22% to 20%, and in 2007, the pre-election programme was that there would be no new taxes. So in both cases, the pre-election programme has not been achieved and this week the government is proposing a whole series of new commitments, but not at any time, but at a time of crisis. And what I said last night, and now I'm going to underline, when in one of the Swiss states and states like the work of foreigners are being debated, it's going to be a referendum. Thus, two opportunities to introduce new taxes and burden both citizens and the economy are one to hold a referendum on this, and the other to hold elections. I must say that new intrusions at a time of crisis seem recessional, not anti-recessional. New imposes at a time of crisis mean weaker tax collection, not better taxing. They mean weaker revenues from the state budget, not better revenues from the state budget. New pressures in times of crisis also mean weaker consumption, weaker consumption generates a weaker offer, or weaker production, lower production means an additional drop in economic growth, burden for both the economy and the citizens. And that's something you can see from the plane, and that's why we can now tell you that this effect will work to fill the state budget in the short term. He may improve a blood count that is anemic in the next 2 months, but for the 3rd month, however, it will come precisely because of these laws to a weaker charge of the state budget. Taxes are introduced when the economy is growing, when the businessmen are willing to pay the tax price, but they are introduced when the money knows where to turn, when that money is targeted, not when that money is used to collect the budget. At a time of crisis, the economy and citizens need to be taxed. This is said by all examples of developed countries that have adapted their legislation over the past year to this and bring down interest rates, reduce VAT rates, encourage the economy and relieve the economy, and not introduce new taxes. We have proposed to introduce an inter-stage VAT as recommended by the European Commission of 10% on elementary food, baby diapers, on the most important things for life. This is proposed by the European Commission, instead we have a proposal for new taxes and what this is, but also what is the value added tax. It is a message that is contrary to everything that the European Commission is doing, what the United States is doing and it certainly is not good. New taxes, in particular value added tax and this tax 150 million value added tax, are projected to generate 1.5 billion plus 150 million, etc. on an annual basis. I must say, and once again I will repeat that the new taxes at a time of crisis mean a weaker collection of those taxes, that new taxes mean a weaker charge of the state budget, and that this is certainly your fault. You'll see in three months. In order not to say, the classification by which the taxation zone for motor vehicles, vessels and all things in it will be extended, as we say from our point of view there are no controversial things, but we repeat the disputed time in which it is brought, it is disputed that we will not direct that the economy grows, we will not focus on creating added value, creating a tax mass from which the tax will raise more funds to the state budget, but rather, we are actually taking from one limited cake even bigger cakes to save current commitments and that cake is becoming smaller and smaller. The sooner we take the tax, the sooner we take the bigger tax, the smaller the cake, and that's why this law is recessional, not anti-recession. It will speed up lower charging of the state budget, not speed up better charging of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38241	Thank you. Mrs. Zeljka Antunović. She's gone. Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38242	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to be short in this special tax on personal cars and boats and not talk about these taxes we talked about yesterday, so I'm going to stick to them, since last night wasn't a TV broadcast, so some obviously used today to say what they were supposed to say in front of the TV cameras last night. So special taxes on private cars, vessels and aircraft, but also other motor vehicles we've heard this already very well paid under the special Law on Special Taxes, so the current situation is approximately that aircraft owners are now paying taxes according to the number of seats and it's amounting from 7 thousand kuna to 30 thousand kuna. The owners of the vessel are currently taxed depending on the length in meters and whether it has a cabin or has no cabin. For a yacht without a cabin, a tax is paid from 6 thousand kuna to 48 thousand kuna, and with a cabin of 15 thousand to 150 thousand kuna. Car owners from 100 thousand kuna to 150 thousand are taxed with 15 thousand kuna, clear plus an increase of 23% for the value of the car above the cost of 100 thousand kuna. Most certainly, cars are taxed over 350,000 kunas, with a excise charge of 98 thousand kuna, and it has been increased by 48%. That's about as short as this, so let's hear what the situation and position is at the moment. And these amendments to the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft the criteria are changed absolutely completely, because taxation goes in accordance with their value, therefore, and the tax is paid at a fixed amount. So that's how we get a new quality. Anyway, whether it's about the car is, is it... Year of production this year, two or three or I don't know how many years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the same thing is brought on motorcycles and all of them. It is only important that it is not registered so far on imports and that all those customs regulations that are in force and now are clearly respected. So regardless of whether or not he was slightly older after a year of production, it is important that he was not registered so far. As can be seen, we clearly have a table that clearly shows us and gives us all these standards that we are talking about, but as so far clear buyers of more expensive personal cars, motorcycles, boats, aircraft would carry a higher tax burden which is absolutely on the spot, and especially those whose price exceeds 5 hundred thousand kuna, because they would pay a excise fee of 177,000 and 500 kuna increased by 63% of the amount exceeding 500 thousand kuna. So that's the maximum amount. What's important is that according to the estimates that were made is that the budget would be a year-by-year thought is certainly about a full year of about 150 million kuna. So far, it counts by the end of the year about 30, so that's kind of an estimate. So we can't even bring some final courts now, because the full financial effect of this law, and like others, will actually be seen only next year, so all these laws are essentially just what we will be able to judge in 2010 and the assumptions are clear and projections of the 2010 budget, given what we will see by the end of the year. What is important is also highlighted in this law, and the previous one is that the Government and this law have clearly shown respect for all members of the ruling coalition, and I certainly support this and for future clear agreements and needs, and this is a sign of respect for all, because as I said yesterday only in this way, therefore, by respecting all and one mutual conversation and dialogue, we can come to the ultimate, or best solution in the interests of all citizens. I therefore support not only this law, but also anyone who will be adopted in this way and who will certainly be proposed to this House of Commons on these grounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38243	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Josip Salapic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38244	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft. Not to repeat myself with my colleagues who have supported this law, I will, above all, support it, for the clear reason that it is the intensity of the legislator who is before us. The intensity is certainly the consolidation of the fiscal revenues of the state budget, which is not to be ignored that this year, according to this proposal, we will be pouring 30 million kuna into the state budget, and next year about 150 million kuna. This law is one in a series of laws that we will discuss and pass this week, which follow the third rebalancing of the state budget and which is preceding the draft budget for 2010. This law sends a clear message to the Government of Croatia that the time has finally come for the position of the applicant, as well as some financial tax experts who have so far warned that some existing legal solutions have de facto, and a favorite of richer citizens, who have tried in some ways to avoid paying taxes, thereby directly damaging the state budget and incomes of the Republic of Croatia. This law is heading that way. This law goes towards preventing malfeasance, preventing tax evasion and preventing non-payment of the state budget. This law, which is another anti-recession measure by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, wants a clear message. The time has come for all those citizens who have financial opportunities, who are richer than others to consider this law citizens who can afford such luxury vessels, planes, cars to rich citizens. Not what we heard yesterday that citizens who have up to 3,000 salaries or pensions are considered wealthy citizens. This is ladies and gentlemen and citizens following this transfer of laws to wealthy citizens. This law will make it clear that those with incomes have opportunities and should pay taxes to the Republic of Croatia. Of course there will be problems in this law. Some will try to avoid, we heard from fellow Lesar two days ago, that some will try and register vessels, aircraft and cars in other countries, but this is our task here to find other opportunities together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The time is ahead, we showed clear what we sent to the citizens on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia a few days ago, which we are prepared to do. That the time has come for the ruling HDZ to show its citizens that we are capable of running the state and that the time has come to end all malversions. I support this law. I consider this law an anti-recession measure and I consider this law necessary, so that at this point we can do everything possible to fill in the fiscal... state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38245	Thank you. We have Mr. Dragutin Lesar's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38246	Just a brief correction of my colleague's attempt to quote my argument the other day. I didn't say they'd try to avoid paying taxes, I said they'd do it. They have been doing this for years in a way that the residence addresses are reported in other countries, and they actually live in Croatia to avoid not only paying taxes on expensive vessels, aircraft and vehicles, but also all other taxes that Croatia should pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38247	Thank you. We have one replica. Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38248	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Salapic is in the part you're talking about in the future and I can agree that it's really time for those who can afford such luxurious products of single prices, to pay the tax in an adequate way. But what remains very unclear to me, so it's unclear how many actually will be the effects of financial, if we consider what the predecessors were saying about the enormous decline now already today, consumption. Let's just take the cars, so somewhere over 50% has fallen buying cars, all kinds, even the most luxurious ones. But I'm interested in what the government and when the government are going to do, so this is about new purchases, I guess, if I read it right. What about those who have planes today, who drive luxury cars? What about them? In what way and how does the government intend to tax them? And they have registered I don't know somewhere out there, a residence or a boat or cars, etc. Or do they have them or bring them in nicely under their own companies so they use them as a fol-based means of business? So that's what seems to me to be an important issue at this point. Yesterday, we talked about taxes, how to call them all, how to talk about the need and what the government obviously doesn't intend to do at the moment. What about the capital gains tax? What about the property tax? What about the dividend tax? So in that sense, it seems to me that the welcoming intensity of this law remains an open question of what about those who have bought the most luxurious products so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38249	Thank you. It's just time to sign up for 10 minutes for registration at 10.42. The answer to the line, Mr. Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I would tell my colleague that so far there have been positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia, so people who have registered and bought vehicles have had the opportunity to register their vehicle under the existing positive legal regulations. Here we are talking about a legal solution for the future. What I need to warn you. Yesterday we didn't talk about the hack and we talked about the solidarity tax. This is one of the anti-recession laws, a law that will see its estimates only at the end of this year, next year and the 2010 budget. I don't think we have to tell our citizens 100 times, scare our citizens. Citizens must understand that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible, that we talked about the solidarity tax yesterday, and today we are talking about a tax on the rich. We're mixing pears and apples with colleagues. Today we are talking about a tax for the rich, whose estimates we will see by the end of 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38251	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I can actually welcome this little progress, which so far has actually been unacceptable for excise duties to be charged per meter of the vessel, i.e. by the number of seats on the plane. And I'm glad my colleague said this is a tax on the rich. However, I am sorry that this tax on the rich was not applied, nor did it come before, but we first taxed the poor. And it's actually a tragedy for everyone. Actually, before we even look back at this law, I'm going to say something. In fact, I have personally proposed some amendments and some maritime regulations to prevent and prevent abuses that are clear to everyone. In fact, the Law of the Sea did not stipulate that, for the entry of a yacht or boats purchased abroad, it must be attached and proved that a legal customs procedure was carried out. Also, the new Maritime Law as well as its amendments and additions have, unfortunately, managed to prevent illegal activities with vessels on our sea since, according to experts, there are many inaccuracies, indiscretions, contradictions and generality of certain provisions. Similarly, it happened with the boat and yacht regulations. Namely, as the provisions of the Law of the Sea, the side of the yacht are defined as a water object for sport and entertainment that has a foreign nationality and which is considered according to the regulations of the State of which the state belongs. The port captains of each side of the mega yacht authorized to carry more than 12 passengers in no way should they treat as a passenger ship. And now we're wondering if the port captains will when some of our tycoon imports that mega yacht will be considered the same as a yacht or a passenger ship, and whether or not they'll be charged on the same fee. For example, let us remember in the 2007 "Evening List" quote: "A yacht worth 10m euros has come. She sailed into Split's port, proudly took her place and spent 3m euros on interior planning afterwards.". The Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, etc. the excise duty was paid in the amount of 150 thousand kuna unless the vessel was considered a passenger ship. And now let's figure out for ourselves what the percentage of the value of the vessel is. And now we're going to compare this case to the amendment proposal and the addition of this law, and I said before that I don't understand why cars and vessels are taxed in the same basket or on the same criteria. But it's too short a time to talk about it now. I'll stay on the previous example of that yacht. In the proposal for Article 6(1), it is also amended in the proposed way according to the table, so we see from the table that the above is the value of paying a special tax on cars, motorcycles, vessels, etc. The value of 500 thousand kuna and we see that in the Republic of Croatia, vessels worth 10 million kuna are imported, so it says. I'm sorry, 10 million euros, which is 74 million kuna. Therefore, almost 150 times the proposed above in the proposal to amend and supplement this law. So, the same criterion for a half a million kuna vessel and for that of nearly 100 million kuna. And that's why I suggest that further values be made not only up to 500 thousand kunas, because if they are placed in the same basket, cars, vessels and planes, they are actually vessels and we know that vessels have more value than cars. I suggest that this process continues to increase the number of classes. And I would also like to refer to Article 4 of the Law, State Secretary, I kindly ask the Article 4 which highlights, quote: "This article proposes changes in the amount of fines in order to ensure more effective application of the law and strengthen discipline in its implementation." It turns out that the implementation was effective and should be more effective with this change. However, the criminal provisions in Article 13(2) of the existing law prescribed that fines of 20 thousand kuna to millions of fines would be fined, etc., in Article 7(6) of this Act. However, Article 7 of that Law contains only four articles. It is therefore not clear which boat, yacht, inland navigation boat referred to in Article 7. It means that paragraph 6 of that Article does not exist at all. Therefore, in practice, the application of these legal provisions has so far been questionable. Let's remember the last change of this law was in 2004. So, for six years, this provision could not have been applied in practice because of such a formal formulation. Only now is Article 4 of the proposal proposed to replace paragraph 2 of point 1 behind the words: paragraph 6 with number 4 and all to ensure a more effective application of the law. That's what the effectiveness of this law was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38253	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38254	Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, President. There are three dilemmas, three reasons why I probably won't support this bill. The first is that only part of the claim is that these changes will increase budget revenues. After reading that the government explained that it would receive a new 150 million kuna on an annual basis, I looked at the state budget for the past year. In the last year, a billion 452 million kuna was collected on behalf of this special tax. In the second rebalancing for this year, it was planned that from the title of that tax the state was incometing 933 million kuna and in the third, it increased to 964 million. So, in the second and third rebalancing itself, the government was aware that the special tax on motor vehicles, yachts, boats, planes, aircraft and other luxury would be lower than last year. However, I see the problem in the following, that in the first half of this year, revenue from that title is reached 392 million kuna. If it's 400 million in the first half, in the second 400 it's an annual level of 800 million. And with this increase, it shouldn't go to an annual level of 150 million, which means 875 million maximum. Why is so much less income achieved in the first six months and less planned for the whole year? Does this mean that the sale of these long-term goods has fallen so much or those particularly expensive vehicles, aircraft and shopping vessels, which actually changes this law, because up to 350 thousand, if I'm not mistaken, is no change but only above that. And those naives who had registered it in their own name have now started shopping on behalf of and on behalf of the companies that own it. If you want to convince me, please let me have one single name in Croatia, Croatian capitalists, that word in the Assembly as if it itself is something negative, and we are in capitalism, so one single name of a capitalist, a wealthy citizen driving in a car, a plane or a yacht registered in his name and bought as a natural person. I really don't know. For all those that the media has passed on as a big news purchase of something new and expensive, it always turns out that it's actually owned by companies and you're aware of that in the Ministry of Finance. They take S-class vehicles to Leasing, and on the roads these vehicles are driven by people who have no connections with companies, but not only private companies, but also public enterprises. And in public companies together, driving on roads is driven by people who have nothing to do with these companies. And I want to believe that in that action plan that the government ordered public enterprises to bring, you will pay particular attention to who drives those vehicles on Croatian roads. So why do rich Croats and Croats buy cars, planes, yachts at the expense of their companies? There's one reason that's 23% heavy, which is that they don't pay value added tax in that case. An ordinary citizen, an ordinary mortal under this bill, if he buys a car worth 100,000 kuna, which is not some luxury, you will admit, will pay 15500 kuna of this special tax and 23 thousand kuna of VAT. The same car bought at the company's expense will be cheaper for 23 thousand kuna. Now, if this bill, but also the law as a whole, and in particular the ways in which tax administrations behave, would be such that this abuse would be reduced to a minimum, because it can never be made to the end of order, but to the minimum, yes, then this law would have my support. What I just said I know you know about the ministry and most of the people in the Parliament, but it's only year after year that we find out and do nothing. It is good for the government to think about it this way, but it is not good that one solution to the tax evasion of the privileged caste of this country's citizens will continue to be able to manipulate the purchase of property, while avoiding taxes. Other types of manipulation that happens precisely because of taxes and these, but also by all others, when prominent citizens deserve heroes and heroin, say Croatian sports, but also other categories, report their residences in tax havens in order to avoid a single kuna of paying taxes to Croatia, but are also rewarded from the state budget for their sports results. Is it fair, is it equal to that of the citizens in front of the laws of this country, and is that equal to the burden of the crisis in which Croatia was found? If you convince me, Mr. Secretary of State, that it will be done but indeed order in the work of tax administrations and these manipulations are reduced to minimum and with Leasing and purchase of a vehicle at the expense of the company, and in fact for private companies, and often even happens that these yachts go charter and legal which also those down at sea who should control know it, but still do nothing, then I would vote for this law. But in the conduct of the tax administration through this law, I have not seen radical changes and hence my reserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38255	Thank you. We have a replica, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38256	Thank you. What you're asking your colleague with the right question is what the background is and what will be the effects of this law I think is the real question. This is basically a story for naives, a story to throw away, and a way to contain the justified anger of citizens, that here and the rich will pay for something. If they paid what they owed to the state by now, the state would be in half the trouble. You may say who owes you everything and in what amount, but you have turned to the little ones. They're the ones you keep going through books with. Therefore, the story of the vessel tax should return to the story of where the funds for the purchase of those vessels, for the purchase of the aircraft. That's the real question. And what does the Bureau of Money Laundering do to you? Therefore, this bill, as counterpart Lesar warns and rightly warns, would not obtain the results that should rightly be expected to win them, because they already have them registered, and now they will even more register vehicles in other countries, so these yachts and boats will be carried out by foreign flags, and most often by those countries where they already have real estate, and they have real estate thanks to the fact that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering has not worked or done its part of the work, and neither does it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38257	Answer, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38258	My colleague Ingrid, I'd like to correct your position a little bit. It is not only this increase in tax for naives, I would say that this is an increase in taxes for honest Croatian citizens who have so far paid neatly according to the laws and they will now pay higher taxes. Those who have so far avoided paying that tax, or manipulations that they did when buying the goods in question, will still be able to do so. But I repeat my concerns if there is a realisation of this tax for this year 800 million, that's as much as 45% less than the income of last year. 45% less. That's why I think this 964-million-dollar ambitious plan is recorded in the third rebalance is really too ambitious.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38259	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38260	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, I fully agree with your exposure, except for one sentence. I'm not gonna support this law. Comrade Lesar, I agree, all the problems you warned about will remain unsolved by this law. But this law is an extremely unfair law. I'm asking you for my river fishermen who, when buying a boat worth 10 times less than a 14-metre luxury yacht, pay the same tax. That's not good. When your farmer in Međimurje together with his colleagues buys a farm plane, then he pays for a four-seater just like for a luxury four-seater of a tycoon flying around this planet. That's unfair. This existing law allows the tycoon to buy a yacht in parts, to make it in Croatia and avoid any giving. That's unfair. So at least we take one small step, a small step, and then we press the government to start solving all the other problems that you have quite rightly stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38261	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38262	Comrade Doric, you've given good reasons for voting for this law. I'll think about it when the vote comes, but before the final decision, I want to hear the debate of my colleague Maric, and then I will make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38263	Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go. He's gone. Mr. Goran Maric, so we'll find out very soon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38264	Thank you very much. Here, I got inspired by the debate of my colleagues, and then I didn't have to prepare myself specifically. First of all, I would say that I agree with Dr Doric, who said that the current law is an emmenter of law, full of holes. But if I were to use similar terminology, then this law, which is proposed, is more like a trapiste, and that is why I personally welcome it. Also, I'm glad that you've told your colleague Lesar that given all the criticism and all the criticism, that we still have to vote for this law and how much I know my colleague Lesar, and even after what I'm saying now, I believe he's still having second thoughts, but he'll eventually decide to do it anyway. Regardless of the major failures in the current law, counterpart Caine, who spoke, did not say correctly that the same tax on a yacht of 20 metres and on a fishing boat was paid. He wasn't the same, but he wasn't fair. This bill corrects these irregularities, these economically unfounded foundations and illogical bases, because the tax base is not logical or economically justified in the due meters, but as it is now in value, financial amounts. We also heard from colleague Jelash when she said that tax hikes would reduce consumption. It is true that the increase in taxes affects price increases and the increase in prices affects the increase in consumption. But also that impact intensity depends on the type of product. There is a greater impact on the goods of broad consumption, and very little impact and is the least elastic demand on luxury products. So the impact on the purchase of luxury products because of the increase in taxes and price increases will not significantly affect, and here I would say about how rich and buy it, how they decide to buy it. There's an anecdote known recently last winter when he was driving in the snow, stopped in the snow, his expensive limo car stopped in the snow. A friend came to pick him up with some big, impressive jeep, tied him up, left right away. He asked what this jeep was called, but he told me what he called it right away and said buy me that one and that jeep. Likewise, individuals from the helicopters see a handsome villa on the Opatija coast and say, you see, whose is it, you buy it. That's how you buy about luxury goods, and this law is exactly going to tax those and income them, and I believe the effect will be. To be against this law is to be against income to the state budget on the basis of such. The truth is this, and I used to say that, Mr. Lesar, 20 days ago I think that many buy yachts on companies and use them for private purposes. Therefore, for the overall effect of this law, it takes really parallel measures of the Ministry of Finance to itself, it is no problem for them to use for private purposes, only that this is treated as such and the effect will be even more economically greater in the Ministry of Finance on the revenue side, only if it is treated as a profit... Then everyone will be paid, like it's a team, not the cost of a company, and I don't mind that they buy for companies because it'll be even more effective if it's treated so justly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have here only a small remark on the amount of fines that are good, but the ranges seem a little too large for a fine of 500 kuna to 50,000. The Ministry of Finance should be careful to avoid subjectivity in assessing the level of punishment because it is a vast range of 500 kuna to 50,000, from 2,000 to 100,000 kuna for the same or similar offence. There's a danger of subjective application... /The speaker doesn't understand. So it is a pleasure to discuss this law because it has nothing to do with those who are the most damaged in this crisis. It affects only those, and it only collects taxes from those who even in this crisis are the richest. And that's why I'm going to warmly support this law and appeal to my colleagues... that he is also voting for this law, because it seems to me that he is still having second thoughts in this House. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38265	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38266	Comrade Maric, you've convinced me. Especially with this comparison that so far the law has been like an emmenter cheese, and that after this intervention, it will still look more like a trapiste. I hope you're right. And counterpart Doric gave good reasons. He said this is at least a small step in improving the law, but these parallel measures of tax administration behaviour, which counterpart Maric also advocated, and perhaps this correction of the printing error in fines from 500 kuna to 50,000, can be corrected by the government's amendment. Maybe there's only zero in there, when the transcript turns out one zero at 500 kuna. But by the end of the year if there are no parallel measures and the behaviour of the tax administration, colleagues Doric and colleagues, Maric, I will declare you guilty that the law has not been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38267	Answer Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38268	Thank you, dear colleague Lesar. I'm glad you respected your colleagues, Doric, and my arguments, that you have made clear the benefits of this law. I will also accept the criticisms you will give me if there is no effect from this application, but I hope that the effect will certainly be given to how critical we have become in relation to and how we are discussing all the laws in this House and I believe, and this bill is also proof that even in the Ministry of Finance the new wind is blowing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38269	Thank you. And a replica, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38270	Well, here's a nice explanation for my colleague, Maric, how the rich buy, so they save, to avoid all possible taxes and the like. And now just one example of how the poor buy, especially when they don't buy with their money. Here, for example. It's not exactly about ships, but let's say it's about bend trains, pieces 8. Bought without a tender, by direct contract, insecure for these roads, during 2003 here is the chairman of the HZ Supervisory Board, Mr. Slavko Linic, who buys 36m euros of trains with a tilt. And what my colleague Doric says, he says we should fix the road first, then buy a hospital car. Look, we didn't fix the tracks, we didn't fix the tracks, but we bought eight trains at the time. So by throwing the money in the way they are, are they correct? No one claims it was this accident, that it was this train, but it's interesting that before that accident, a simple train went through the same emulsion without a problem. But it's not just trains, there's other things to buy right now. So let's say for 4 million euros mobile inspection and ticket sales on trains that have never been mounted, because they haven't shown up normally good. And at the end of the story, 4 million and 36 million euros, that's 40 million and 800 thousand euros, obviously thrown away. So that's how they buy the poor if they buy the state money. But that's why we're talking about the savings that should be now, because this power is being thrown out, and the government here in 2003 has been saving in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38271	Answer, Mr. Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38272	Thank you very much. My colleague Markovanovic, you say the rich are buying. Well, rich people buy, usually rich people buy luxury products. When they see a new powerful jeep, a new yacht or helicopter, they are impressed by this powerful new technology and probably more motivated by buying that technology power than they are by the price. And I also believe that they are convinced that they will be and feel more powerful in such powerful technology, so it further motivates them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38273	Thank you. And individually last, Mrs. Nada Cavlovic Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38274	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So regarding the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Tax that we can call the tax on luxury products that we are discussing today, we see that the changes are related to the determination of the amount of the special tax in taxation of new and used personal cars, as well as vessels and aircraft. This law also equalises the way in which new passenger cars, other motor vehicles, and vessels and aircraft are taxed, so that the tax base for all those products is their value. The question arises why so far the vessels and aircraft have not been taxed at their value,... the tax base determined according to the number of seats for aircraft, i.e. by the length expressed in meters for vessels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the applicant himself states in the assessment of the situation that these changes achieve a higher level of taxation, given that these changes intend to further increase taxation against the economic power of the taxpayer, which means that buyers of expensive cars, vessels and aircraft would pay even higher taxes. So is it not one of the basic principles that tax should be paid according to the economic power of the taxpayer. This principle here has obviously been disrespected for many years. That is why all those who have so far acquired expensive aircraft and vessels will not, of course, pay this new amended and larger tax. They paid taxes on expensive yachts by length no matter what the value of these yachts was, and at the same time in that same law that we are changing today, all those citizens who bought private cars and motorcycles paid according to their value. We wonder why planes and vessels were not also taxed according to their value. Obviously, the state has not wanted to tax the rich so far, because it shows changes in the tax base just now. Also, why doesn't the state introduce a tax on property? Why don't you finally introduce a capital gains tax? Why is there no tax on dividends paid at millions? The easiest way to see it was to introduce income tax, wages and pensions, and those who have acquired huge wealth on the question which way, this tax obviously won't pay. Furthermore, it is said to be one of the anti-recession measures, is that it means measures, which would somehow help Croatia out of the crisis. That's what counterpart Bernardic was talking about. However, we feel that it is quite wrong. In the recession, new taxes should not be introduced in the crisis, or existing taxes should not be increased. But that's what we do. In the recession, in the crisis, it is clear that we are additionally taxing citizens, increasing the value added tax, which will ultimately result only in weaker charge of the state budget, or we will not achieve the effects that we want to achieve by introducing new taxes and increasing the existing ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38275	Thank you. We have replicas, Mr. Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38276	Well, as far as taxes are concerned, I'm at differentiated rates and tax hikes for those who have to and should pay more. But most of the time in this country there is a problem that I think by taxing me as a magic wand problem. At the same time, services and institutions don't work. Those to be investigated and examined shall establish from where and in a lawful manner whether the money bought and purchased by means of lasting or valuable goods has been obtained. I agree with my colleague, Maric, that there is nothing better than nothing. And that's how much I agree with my colleague that I should refuse my taxes. Yeah, but make sure it's not enough to pass the law. And since his colleague Markovanovic flew in on the bending trains. Now I'm going to come in and answer him, that the state needs to control the state-owned companies that have been buying twice the complete information equipment that's been standing in storage for the last four years and has never been put into operation. So let's get on trains and this information equipment I don't know how much they have to do with taxes, but since fellow Markovanovic flew in, now I'm giving it back, but I don't think it's a contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38277	We need to question each other. And not because this is, or we don't want this or because this is this, we're not going to do this or because we're not going to do this. No, not both. Mrs. Nada Cavlović Smiljanec, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38278	Well, you said your colleague Hanzek right. In fact, the question arises where individual taxpayers, i.e. entrepreneurs, have so much resources and so much money that they can buy expensive yachts and planes. It is that otherwise there are regulations in this country, there is an Income Tax Act and the Tax Administration is obliged to compare incomes, it is obliged to compare with the assets that these entrepreneurs have acquired and thus by year's economy to determine whether the assets they have acquired could be covered by those profits that entrepreneurs have acquired during the year. However, I must say that in the IRS, this taxation procedure is carried out very little, it is almost not implemented at all and is implemented as tragically selectively as possible. Not for those who have enormous wealth and small profits, but rather for those who are not political likers. Goes to check on those who have little. And for those who have great and buy luxury yachts and real estate, they are well aware of what bonds they are. Unfortunately, they don't have that data check.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38279	Thank you. Replica Mr. Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38280	Thank you. I personally think this law should be supported and his intensity is good. As some will avoid it, try to avoid it is another thing, but the intensity itself is good. What's not right is that we bid on tragedies here. A great and terrible tragedy occurred a few days ago, not six or seven years ago, and to bid on it for political purposes is unforgivable. We need to show a pitet first of all to the victims and family members who lost those people. And anyone who's to blame for what happened because of sloppyness, for possible crime, for illegal irresponsible behavior, let him answer. But dear gentlemen, those trains have been driving for six, seven years, there was no accident she happened the other day. She happened the other day. And all we know by means of information so far, those responsible for this accident are guilty of being sloppyly doing the job that's responsible. They did it irresponsiblely. And it's not good that at the moment we declare the day of mourning in the state, we introduce it into this hall as an argument for the political reckonings that are really beneath the belt.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38281	Are you in favour of the rule of law, right? We're all up for it. No exceptions. And when we say that, we've all answered our questions. We keep the law and the law. Finally, Mr. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's just a brief thank you to everyone who participated in the debate. I'm particularly glad as we've heard I'll say cautiously most will support this law. There's still a few undecided ones. But also just a few remarks about your comments and suggestions on this law. So we've heard this comparison several times in half between yachts and, say, a fisherman, or a vessel for that purpose. It should therefore be made very clear that, in the existing law and thus these amendments to the law, if the vessel is intended for its registered activity, it is released in accordance with the existing Article 7 which is exempt from paying the excise duty. Also when we were giving and when we heard in the debate so parallel to cars whether SC or already which classes or jeep excise cars are paid by everyone. regardless of the purpose, regardless of the registered activity, whether a legal person or a natural person. And finally also one remark, that is to say, the noted MPs Šimac Bonačić, related to these infringements and Article 13, mentioned herself in the debate that we can thus say that we have caught a good part of these certain abuses, but a clear answer and I think thanks for its observation that, on top of this law and the Customs Law and the General Tax Law, we can do and actually exercise control and control, that is to say, prevent possible abuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38283	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. 3., Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 417. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to show himself, Mr. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary. Amendment to Article 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38285	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. Allow me a few words of explanation. So, yesterday in the debate it was clear and I thanked everyone in the final word for the comments and suggestions, in fact, at the very hearing of this law which was practically original from '97. And he was subject to his changes in '99. and in 2000 and 2001 when, in fact, you all recognized the quality of progress in terms of value taxation. The proposed amendment therefore adds new classes to those proposed by amendments to the law. However, the proposed amendment deviates significantly from the principle which is, in fact, the fundamental intensity of this law. So we come into a situation with calculations and simulations of certain items of taxation, so vehicles, aircraft or vessels ranging between 500 thousand kuna and million kuna, that we come into a situation that if we apply this amendment, we actually come to a situation where a more expensive vehicle would actually be relatively and absolutely less taxed, so in terms of taxes less income than an expensive vehicle. It certainly can't be acceptable to us because, as I said, it actually cuts with the intensity of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38286	Thank you. Mrs. Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you know what, colleagues under this law, this is a small shift, but as I said yesterday, it's not appropriate for cars and planes to be placed in the same basket, or vessels. Therefore, if the upper limit is 500 thousand kuna, we are wondering which vessel costs 500 thousand kuna, i.e. we know that it has much greater value, and that is why I have asked for an increase in these payment classes with this amendment and I would ask for a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38288	Thank you. I suggest we vote on the amendments by raising our hands, it'll go faster. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 100 votes for, 5 abstentions, nothing against. Moving to 7. Proposal for a law on support for job conservation, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 418 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal to discuss the proposal by emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Miljenko Pavlakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38290	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is a draft bill on support for the preservation of jobs. It is clear that, given the global economic and financial crisis that also covers the economy of the Republic of Croatia which has been manifested in the fall of economic activity, which has clearly been very evident since the second half of 2008. Therefore, we have been thinking that it is necessary to limit these negative consequences to regulate the specific law by this Law to provide support for job conservation, and that is because of the impact of this global economic and financial crisis on their economic activity. In order to avoid greater redundancies of labour, this law would aim to preserve jobs to restore economic and business activity and growth to a level that was clear before this global crisis. This proposal would pay off employers' support if instead of cancelling and cancelling the Labour Treaty to reduce full-time working week from the current 40 to 32 hours a week. That would preserve full employment. All employers, who during 2007 and the first half of 2008 would have done profits and during the second part of 2008 and during 2009 would have the right to develop a part-time programme and on the basis of the consent obtained from the working council, the union commissioner or, in the absence of this, the Croatian Employment Office would have the right to this support. Supports would be paid in such a way that the amount of the difference would be paid to the amount of contributions and to the salaries of workers due to the reduced working hours up to a maximum of 20% of the total contribution and the difference in net wage of workers resulting from the same reduction of that working time of 10% and the difference for workers who support the child or are 13%. Clearly, this minimum wage would remain as a fixed category under the Minimum Payment Act, and for those who have minimum salaries would only be paid up to 20%. In this way, it would have come to the meeting of Croatian businessmen to try to reduce the very cost that would have taken place with them and thus would have kept jobs for our workers and there would have just been another effect, which is that if workers came to the register of the Croatian Employment Office, there would have been a much higher cost of the state itself in this sense, and in another way, a further budget would have been filled through payments of contributions from and on pay. At the same time, as we influence budget filling, we felt that preserving these jobs would make workers more income than those that are allowed through the Croatian Employment Service. According to ours, I will dare to say the most unfavourable assessments that have been made that, in the budget, the redistribution of funds under the division of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and in the head of the Croatian Employment Service for this support has provided 200 million kuna. I must point out that these are the estimates we've come up against the current movements that are most unfavourable. It's not to be expected to occur in that phase, but the funds are secured. In this way, I would like to point out once again with the basic goal of preserving the jobs of employees in the Republic of Croatia, providing funds to employers who will leave people employed and you will not send them to the Croatian Employment Service and thus welcome the moment with full employment when economic activity is restarted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38291	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38292	Honorable President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well, surely this global economic and financial crisis has affected economic developments in the Republic of Croatia, and as a consequence, we have a significant drop in employment, i.e. an increase in unemployment. The registered unemployment rate currently in Croatia is 14% for June. Such a negative trend in the labour market needs to be stopped as soon as possible to prevent the new negative consequences of job layoffs, especially in those economic sectors that are most affected by the recession crisis, which are primarily food, wood, textile, metal and other industries, and we must not forget about construction there. To help employers reduce labour costs and preserve most jobs until better days arrive, or start new economic activities, this law is welcome. I believe that even the opposition I believe will not criticise him too much. The initiative to adopt the Law on Support for Job Conservation, i.e. to shorten the working week in those economic branches that feel the increased effects of the global economic crisis, has proposed an economic council with the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the end of last year. All the social partners were unique in support of such an initiative to save jobs, means to stop the workers being fired. The proposed law regulates the payment of support to employers in order to reduce full-time working hours of the week, which is now 40 hours per 32 hours per week, i.e. If you cut that working time by about 20%, that weekly fund would be reduced by hours. Experiences to introduce a shortened working week exist in the European Union, which has also recommended to its members a reduction in working week in order to preserve more jobs in crisis conditions, as I believe you are familiar with the EUROSTAT assessment so that there may be around 8.5 million workers in the Union without a job in this and next year. So here are those who are critical of us, I think that this data should also say that the crisis is not only in Croatia, but also in other European Union countries that are certainly economically far away, far stronger than Croatia. Our neighbouring Slovenia cut that week from 40 to 36 hours, and in Germany some companies made decisions to work the week only three days a week. The support that employers will receive through this law consists of two parts. The first part is 20% of the amount of the contribution means between old and new salary and 10% difference between old and new salary in net amount, and 13% for child support workers. In order to achieve this commendable support, employers must normally submit a request to the Croatian Employment Service, at the latest by 31 June of next year, means 2010, which means they have to prove their business difficulties, but this law excludes those employers who are chronic losers or are in a blockade or used by the Institute of Temporary Work. So only those who did not do business with losses in 2007 are entitled to the right, but with profits, and during one half-year or throughout 2008 or early 2009. Employers will also have to develop a job conservation programme, i.e. the programme of reducing working time and obtaining the consent of the working council or union commissioner if they do not have a working council in the company, i.e. if they do not have a working council or a union in the company, they will have to get consent from the Croatian Employment Office. The companies in which this law applies will submit a list of employees to the Croatian Employment Service, which will pay support on the basis of that list as well as contributions to pension and health insurance. Although this draft law introduces a new form of state support to be financed from the state budget, it will not be necessary to provide additional funding, given that the Croatian Employment Office has already provided these funds for the payment of state support under this bill. This measure is a measure to overcome this crisis, it is welcome and I believe that there is no common sense against workers staying in the field of work and in the sphere of labour relations, but to be fired and the fact that they are burdened by the Croatian Employment Service, themselves, social care centres and I don't know everything to whom. These supports are paid while the law is in force, so it's one in a series of these laws with a certain duration, so this law has a period of time until December 31st next year. And precisely from all these positive intentions that the law has prescribed here, the Croatian Democratic Community Club has supported this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38293	Thank you. HNS representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38294	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is because of the overall situation in which we are in, and there have been very many words about it in the previous two days, there has been a slowdown in economic activity in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, resulting in an increase in unemployment. The Croatian Employment Institute records in the first six months 5% higher unemployment compared to the same period last year or we have 12431 people as newly reported. 50% of them come directly from a broken working relationship. Due to a significant decline in GDP, industrial production, due to growth in gross foreign debt and a decrease in general consumption, there will be an increase in the cancellation of the labour contract. This law introduces a new form of state aid that will preserve employment at the existing level. The funds will be in the budget by redistributing the item providing material and legal protection for unemployed persons and in an item that has the means to co-finance new employment. In view of the assumption that by the end of 2009, there could be 50,000 workers left out of work, this Support Act should cover about 250 thousand workers who will be reduced by 20%, and this requires 200 million kuna. With this proposal, the employer's law obliges to pay contributions, and the short working hours of 32 hours would be calculated as full-time. I will not repeat all the details that my colleague Kunst spoke of in this law, but I will finally say that the representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club will support this bill, but only as a short-term solution to the economy that has been found in endlessly great difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38295	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38296	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Well, I also agree with Mr. Kunst that no one of common sense at this time on these occasions in this country at this hour should be against this law. 2009 Croatia will run out of 50, someone may say 80,000 jobs. And indeed, at this point, we all agree, there is no greater priority than saving jobs. That's for sure or it should be a priority over priorities. At this time in the Republic of Croatia, we have about a million 580 thousand workers, on the other hand we have a million 180 thousand pensioners. It's this famous ratio of 1:1.37,38. In Istria is this ratio of worker-retired 2:1. However, if we add 300 thousand to that number of 1 million 180 thousand pensioners to 300 thousand of us who are in public service, local self-government, state offices, etc., then we get an average of 1 worker versus one pensioner, i.e. under quotes of upgrades. If so, and that is so, then it says that we are all matured together for a serious reconstruction of the state and local apparatus. Let me quote here in the introductory assessment of this law, where it is literally said that because of its influence, it is thought of the crisis, well, the economy and the labour market of the Republic of Croatia there has been a significant increase in the number of newly registered persons in the unemployment records. In the first 6 months of this year, the number of unemployed in the Croatian Employment Service records was 5% higher than in the same period of the previous year, i.e. the newly reported 12 thousand 431 people, more than in the same period of the previous year. The overall trend in labour market developments is the growth of the unemployment rate, the decline in employment rates, as almost 50% of newly reported unemployed enters directly or from a broken employment relationship, and in May of this year, the registered unemployment rate was 14.4%, as well as the overall macroeconomic trend, which for the first quarter of this year points to a significant drop in gross domestic product 6.7%, a drop in industrial production of 7.1%, a growth in gross foreign debt, a reduction in general consumption is necessary in order to prevent an increase in the number of unemployed, i.e. further cancellation of labour contracts and the prevention of additional cost of job lay-offs to apply the principle of flexibility in order to allow business operators to adapt their business in emerging circumstances, etc., etc. The situation already shows that it is extremely serious, we will have to, in addition to the reconstruction of the state and local apparatus, probably cut the support, implement a new pension, probably a new tax reform, suspend some low-return investments, reportedly to have been discussed yesterday where investments in road construction amounting to 8 billion kuna would have to be left, we will probably have to close down some off budget funds under the budget, etc., etc. Why is that? Well, logically, prices increased by 16% in 2005 to 2009, and our budget grew at a rate of 33%, much faster than gross social product and it was understandable that it was then spent by the state under quotes. It is interesting, one text I have received, I will read only the opinion of the Croatian Employers' Association where they literally say they are satisfied with the government's proposal for a law on support for job conservation, which will help companies who have problems in business because of the economic crisis and decide to shorten their working week. Mr Kovacevic, that from this HUP association, says they are excellent measures, but there will be problems in their implementation because it is said that many workers will now not agree to a week's cut. As we've heard from the secretary of state, this law will be provided for around 200 million kuna this year. A large number of companies in Croatia as part of their anti-recession or I don't know what to call it, even in January this year reduced the pay of the gentlemen to their employees and there, I dare say, that difference was even much bigger than what the government cut its employees. There were cuts around 20%, and now workers' salaries will further impoverish this famous solidarity tax of 2, and 4%, respectively, that is, the state. By shortening the working week, too, it cannot be done without the consent of the workers, and they will now find it difficult to accept it because their receipts have been greatly reduced. By cutting the working week, it means, of course, a proportional wage reduction. According to the government's proposal for short-term support, they will be double. One difference between the full salary and the one reduced after the work week cuts that the state will pay in its own budget, while the other are direct wages for the difference in wages, but the state will cover a maximum of 10 to 13%, only if the worker supports the child. The bill is simple. If employers were to cut 20% of their wages due to a reduction in working week due to this unemployed Friday, workers' income would at best be reduced by another 10%, which is likely to be more. This third job-cutting pays in only eight months, that's perfectly logical, he'll try to avoid it. To be clear, I would dare even at this point say that often these little merchants, small caterers, small employers, are even in a worse position than the workers who work with them. Why? If the craftsmen match their entire assets, they work as grays, and their situation is final, ultimately uncertain. If they come into trouble, and many will come, they simply go away and pass generations and generations. Everyone is over-indebted, no one is able to get to a business loan anymore, the question arises as long as they manage to maintain an existing number of workers. According to the HUP estimates, the Croatian Employers' Association, so help is needed to preserve 130 thousand jobs in the Croatian industry. If nothing was done by the end of the year without a job in the Croatian industry, there would be at least 50,000 people left. How many state aid to potential users for the shortened working week at HUP could not be estimated because in most cases support will be sought by parts of the company, etc. So it's not the whole firm, it's the parts of the company. And just one more detail. Kovacevic says there will be no problem meeting the criteria companies must meet to qualify for support. The law makes it clear that the employer must prove that he did not deal with losses in 2007, that his loss did not occur before the end of July of last year, but in the second half of 2009 or in the first half of 2008 or in the first half of 2009. Support clearly, what we all know, we see cannot be obtained by employers who have some outstanding obligations based on contributions and taxes to state bodies. What we all need to be afraid of in this way is an additional decline in public spending, meaning additional budgeting, we are afraid or we should be afraid of social impact even though, once again, this is simply a good measure. It is better to save one job with a minus salary 10.15%, than to transfer the burden 100% to the worker or state through the financing of the stock market again, the work, which is again financed from the budget, i.e. The remaining employees' salaries. However, I doubt this law can save at this point and the textile industry, small trade, shipbuilding can no longer save, except for the olive trees, everything went down as well as construction comes into serious problems. If he gives up this road construction in return, he should immediately start building some hospitals and so forth. Two years ago, in Istria, we said about this way, that we are first in crisis because of the export character of our economy, plus tourism, but we will also be the first to come out of this crisis and that recovery is now in action. But we also asked ourselves what would happen to those who work exclusively on the Croatian market. Now here we see that it simply follows this chaos, if clearly those who work with the Croatian market are not monopolies. I think you know who that applies to. Who's to blame for this? Let's let the government or former members of the government, let them rest, rest them, four and a half million people clearly have concerns about what will happen to their salaries, loans, pensions, etc., but I don't think we're largely guilty of this situation in this country of people who are in power, so we're in opposition, including the media, the green, I don't know who doesn't. Why? Because we simply fought, we competed on who would drive more investment out of Croatia, not Croatia. From 2000 to 2009 we drove foreign investors who were willing to invest around 5 billion euros here. With these 5 billion euros, about 50,000 jobs could be opened this year, and unfortunately Croatia will lose them. These 5 billion-euro investments, it doesn't matter if it's about tourism, industry and the like, agriculture, would certainly raise the gross social product by 10%, would certainly increase exports by 10%, and I repeat, we simply tried to drive out more of these investments. This year we see, the good MPs already have over maybe 3 salaries, the rest of the public sector are left without one and a half salaries, in 2010, this trend will unfortunately continue. Now what we've done, we've done. At this point, and we will, we can't get to any relevant capital because no one in the world is going into anything under quotes. What we've done with such one behavior, fighting against everything, we've done evil to the nation. In the end, what happens? In 3.4 years, the foreigners will buy us even cheaper, we will sell ourselves even cheaper, and today we see for ourselves and that you want no one interested in any investment in the Republic of Croatia. And what's he saying? It says that we literally have to start over, work, not oppose every investment, not just looking for what we're going to do in that Kennedy state, but ask what we can do for our country. The clear policy of new taxes, the question of how much it will help, should enter what I know about the European Union, should also be said, regardless of the decline of that mood among citizens to the European Union, that the European Union is calling for problems in Croatia is not to blame. We need to deal with the neighbors, we need everything, everything needs to be clear, but we also need to pay salaries, pensions, and it's getting harder and harder in this country. Why? Among other things, and because of this policy, we will do nothing or should be against everything. That's what I was going to say, and for the end of the IDS will vote for this bill clearly, the law is simply extorted. How logical about this later, but at this point something that can still help the remains of the Croatian economy as much as it can. Because if we lose 50 thousand jobs by the end of the year in industry, whether domestic or export, then the revenues in the state budget will continue to fall in the time that is beneath us, and then this would indeed be a disaster for the budgets, either of the state, whether local self-government and 4 and a half million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. I mean, once again, the law is logical, and we don't just have a place to go, but we also accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38297	Thank you. A few corrections. First Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38298	I'm having a hard time seeing a fellow Caine, so let me cheer him up. One correction. So at this point, he says colleague Cain that no one invests anything in Croatia, which is not true. Here we have just finished talking about building with one company of 5 manufacturing halls, with another production hall, then a residential settlement of little of 5 such larger buildings. So going these days happens. Fortunately. Therefore, fellow smiles please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38299	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38300	Well, I would correct all of the catastrophic hunches of Agent Cain that everything in Croatia would be catastrophic, so he counted. I just don't know, he's scared of everything, he's a very scary man. And I don't know where he got the courage to run for one who's going to be a disaster for president of the state. That's amazing how there is. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38301	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majedenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38302	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's Agent Cain. He says we've made five billion foreign investments. That's really not true. And if you had followed the state budget reports since 2004, then you would have noticed that there was a constant trend in foreign investment. And the government has been encouraging foreign investment since 2004. The fact is, and this is said in the Croatian National Bank reports for all those years that the amounts have been constantly increasing, that they are indeed Croatian National Banks. And the fact is also that when the crisis occurred in 2009, it fell something. But only because the countries are also in crisis. So countries in Europe and the world in crisis and, of course, that money invests in their country. Therefore, you cannot say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has driven away 5 billion foreign investments. I think it's really unserious and that we need to monitor a little budget and budget implementation here in Parliament, not just do some politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38303	And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38304	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I will correct the incorrect assumption that this law has been extorted. From who? This law is the result of government talks and agreements with social partners and understanding of the situation in which those export producers were found. This is the result of agreement and understanding of government and social partners. But it's for nothing to correct a colleague of Cain, because the more you correct him, the more incorrect allegations he makes. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38305	SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38306	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd say there's a law in front of us that's been done by formula. Great, great, good idea, catastrophic performance, resulting from bad law. Bad law. To say what we have heard so far about the need for such a law to be passed so that an initiative that has not been mutilated since yesterday, which knows other European countries, is almost too high. A few days ago a newspaper issued a reprint of their old newspaper with some important events and reached my hand with a date of 12. Nine. 2001. And in that paper, I was warned of an interesting title. It came out said in the newspaper Vidovic's plan, "against poverty with short working hours". Can unemployment be reduced by part-time? I guess so. The more such a possibility is recommended, etc. So, gentlemen, eight years ago, I initiated the adoption of a law like this at a time when we had great unemployment and, of course, I have nothing against the idea itself, and I think she's welcome and she's not in any way premature. I would rather say that it is too late, despite the fact that most European countries with such initiatives and laws are still on certain deadlines in times of recession or crisis. Why is that a good idea? So simply because it is incomparable to open a new job rather than to save an old job. Because, by the principle of social justice, it is better for people to have any income than not to have any income, which is because of the principle of more quality charge and budget preservation, it is better not to pay out of the budget unemployment benefits, but rather to receive in the budget and in the funds contributions, taxes, etc. So there's no doubt about it. It's the law, the initiative that's welcome and I support. Now, what's wrong with this whole story and why is it sad that every good idea and every good initiative must be compromised as it was done in this case? The first thing isn't true, someone quoted from my predecessors the union leader and the representatives of the HUP that they've both both been hand-in-hand in favour of this law. That's just not true. They supported that law at a time when it was not known that it would go with the tax that we are exactly or which, unfortunately, we will vote very likely on my very gravely, or you will vote tomorrow. So in another time, in a completely different context, this idea was accepted. Secondly, the performance itself was not accepted, and the performance says this. I'm quoting a union leader who said, "What you get on the bridge, you lose on the keg." It has never happened that the principle that employees, those who work, help those who are unemployed, are trafficked to their opposite. It's a case here. This whole story is funded from reduced unemployment benefits. So the unemployed are funding employees. It's a completely upside-down principle. Another thing, why is it hard to believe that any of this law will come true? It's hard because this bill disowns a worker who goes into the regime, gives up 90% of his journal. Who is it if he's not 100% sure he'll get fired ready for it. On the other hand, workers in these companies after the first directors cut their salaries, then they were derailed by the state with their taxes. The law now requires that trade unions also because union leaders or labour council representatives must give befel, they must give support to go in such a way that they also participate in the reduction of workers' salaries in these companies. It's very hard to expect anyone to take advantage of it. What's going to happen? It will happen because companies that have minimum salaries could be expected to participate most often in this whole, that they will apply. That's not certain now either. It is very likely that the work on black will be further increased and that we will have the effects actually which in the light of this law, what we want to achieve with them, we will not achieve. Why didn't we do what the whole world does? Well, there's a country about 15 kilometers away with which we have all kinds of disputes but that sometimes makes something good. Well, they have that law, they have good results. They have already saved about 20,000 jobs in the small country of Slovenia, 20,000 jobs have been saved. And how did they do that? Well, they went to what the Austrians and others did, and they went to a flat-rate amount of 60 euros for those employers who cut the working week 40 to 36 and 120 euros for those who went from 40 to 32 hours. And everyone happy, I think another 150, 160 companies waiting to get involved in that whole story. It's the same time-shared period in which it can be done, etc. In this law of ours, the bill of law I welcome it is stimulated that people work legally, do business under the law, pay their obligations, have working councils, have unions, etc. That's good, but I'm not sure that in the middle of all those restrictions that we've predicted here that there will be enough interested in actually one such law. So, if you were to ask how to treat this bill I would say the initiative to armpits, no solutions at all. Don't do what we did a few months ago, with which we boasted so much and thank God that we did it in line with European laws, that we brought in some kind of support for the unemployed to take them so drastically now. A thousand thousand kunas will get less unemployed than the state we now have. That's not a good story. On the one hand you're correcting something, on the other hand you're taking it. If we really want to, if we want to help people who have jobs at risk, employers on such occasions, then the laws are so formulated and they're not a good way to really help them. I believe in good faith in this case when it comes to accepting the initiative but fight God's people not to take that money for the unemployed. We didn't do anything that way. Social security or the uncertainty of a large number of people will increase and will not decrease. It's either going to be, or it's going to be smaller than it is without this law, but that's no one's goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38307	Thank you. A few corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38308	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I am correcting Mr. Vidovic's claim that a good idea has been turned into a bad law. ... A good idea turned into a good law, the only enforceable law right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Mr. Vidovic himself quoted his proposal and initiative from 2001 while he was a minister, while the SDP led this country to launch such an idea and initiative to introduce a shortened working week, which apparently did not come up with support in his party until such a law came into life. There's a lot of contradiction. I think it's hard for people who listen to this, to understand that he supports such an initiative. He suggests in 2001 and the SDP does not support such an initiative while they were able to do something smart in time during their reign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38309	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38310	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I will correct the two incorrect allegations of Mr. Vidovic who says so. The first is "The whole story is funded from unemployment benefits.". That's incorrect, Mr. Vidovic. "And other incorrect social security will diminish." That's not true. We are just talking about a proposal for a new law which, in fact, makes another effort by the state to strike a balance between fostering the economy and preserving social cohesion and justice and the stability of the entire economic system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38311	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38312	Thank you very much. Well, MP Vidovic put out a whole series of incorrect allegations, and I'll only try two. First of all, it is not true that the social partners did not participate in the drafting of this law. From three union centers, five of them had their own representatives but all agreed that they were involved in the drafting of this law. So, the law was attended by social partners and it is the first incorrect or as Mr. Vidovic said yesterday that it was a lie. Secondly, it's not true that 90% decreases. You need to get into math, counselor, so you'll see that that's about 37.2% of the difference between old and new gross salary and 10% or 13% depending on the child, and that's somewhere if you're going to count on a thousand kuna, it's about 440 kunas that are going to be lost, I'm talking about a thousand kunas if that's all we're talking about, the difference. So it has nothing to do with 90%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38313	An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38314	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President. This Final Proposal for a Law on Support for Job Conservation is already set out in Article 1 of the Inaccuracy Act. In this regard, Article 1 states that in order to limit the negative effects of the global economic crisis on the labour market in the Republic of Croatia, this law regulates conditions, heights and ways to support jobs. What's the impact of the global crisis doing here? So, the government doesn't admit, they're running away from any responsibility again, not a word of it. So again we have everything to do is guilty, first, second, third, but never the government is guilty of anything or is responsible for anything. Running away from responsibility can't fix things. So, what we expected if the government were to seriously admit the situation and soy part of the responsibility in it. It's not here. If I didn't repeat everything my colleague Vidovic said, I just wanted to say something. We have a bill of law to treat a worker's wages as a felony. We know that in these times of crisis, individuals and companies come into serious trouble. However, this is also an opportunity for many to hunt in the cloudy and they will do so. So both at this point and those who can pay wages don't do it or don't pay it in full. Likewise, many remain without a job and when it is not necessary and when it is not justified. In response to this proposal, the government responds with an administrative sentence that is not true in that part, so it says so. The criminal law has often changed, and it would not be good for the sake of legal certainty for it to be blackmailed and entered into our criminal legislation, so as to send a message in such a way that the state will not tolerate such a situation. However, the government says it is legal, that the amendment of the Penal Code in that part would make the legal system insecure. So there's no intention of basic protection of workers in his fundamental rights, and that's payout. Therefore, here is also this bill for these reasons, so where the situation is not recognised, which is why we have already brought here and because it says that paying the worker is a criminal offense to lead to legal uncertainty. So the question is, whose legal certainty is this government protecting? Those who refuse to meet their basic obligations, thus damaging both workers and his family and the entire state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38315	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38316	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ingrid, I'd just like to add that not only does it hit the worker here, this law contains some other items that are absolutely questionable to me. Therefore, criminal provisions say that an employer who pays the wages irregularly or does not pay compulsory contributions will be punished, not less than or equal to 100 to 200 thousand kuna. Take one small entrepreneur who meets all the requirements for support, gets support, and in these crazy times when you don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, let alone in three or six months, he doesn't manage to pay his salary or pay his contributions. You will ask this small entrepreneur to pay a fine of 100 to 200 thousand, and he can't even pay the price. Absolutely unsustainable. I suggest you take his money back, make a commitment to him in relation to his return to support, but don't punish him. Because this is a time when such punishments are unsustainable. And the other thing that also relates to what Ingrid said, but also to the predecessors, in the law that is going on the agenda, in the light of this law and to the assessment of the sources necessary for the implementation of the laws that are being cut off from the support of the unemployed, this Government, or the Proposer, has written, not us who are saying so, but has written that this law will save 30 million kunas during 2010, and these funds will be channelled towards measures and support for the preservation of jobs. Oh, please. You wrote it. And if it wasn't tragic, it would be funny and it really confirms what my colleague said earlier that he was taking people who were left without a job and rerouting those funds to people who, thanks to everything else and this law that we welcome, would save their jobs. Well, at least watch out for these formulations if nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38317	The reply to the replica, Madam Representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38318	This is a serious problem that you are saying that both small employers and craftsmen will not by their own fault come into a difficult situation and that the state will ruthlessly punish them. And that's exactly why I'm saying how necessary it is to amend the Penal Code and, in an urgent sense, that non-payment of wages to a worker is treated as a criminal offence. We have well formulated it in a way that we have said exactly about those employers who unjustly, so without their guilt or purpose, with their guilt, do not want to pay the workers' wages. So, it's not an administrative measure like this one wants to punish such small ones, as a rule, small employers. So, the intensity was just to punish those who deliberately and in these particularly difficult times avoid their basic obligation, pay the worker's salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38319	Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38320	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the first thing I'm going to say right now is I'm going to support the adoption of this law for the reason that I believe that preserving jobs at this point for the Republic of Croatia and for its citizens is of paramount importance. The impact of the economic and financial crisis therefore required to limit its negative consequences to bring about one such regulation in order to keep as many jobs as possible and to record as few registered unemployed workers as possible from the Croatian Employment Service. The aim of this bill is to pay employers back if, instead, they cancel their work contracts to reduce full-time from the current 40 hours to 32 hours a week and thus preserve full-time employment in the entire company or at least in one of its organisational units. Article 3 of this Law provides for how much support employers would receive to reduce full-time employment. My colleague Kunst talked about it on behalf of the club when he spoke in detail, so I won't say it again. But here, Article 4 of this law regulates the employers who would have the right to support it, and I do not think it is possible for them to mention once again that the employers who did not do business with the loss in 2007, further which in the second half of 2008, i.e. the previous mid-year 2009 had a loss in business, which did not occur in the period until 31 July 2008, that these employers had to develop a programme to save jobs by cutting jobs, that they had to get the consent of a working council or a union commissioner for this programme. If they do not have a working council or a union commissioner, then consent must be given to the Croatian Employment Service and that there are no outstanding obligations for contributions under the special regulation prior to the submission of the support application. In the opening part of this proposal, the Proposer explained in detail that this law does not require additional funding since the funds from reducing unemployment benefits will be targeted at preserving jobs, and also the funds intended for an active employment measure, the active employment policy is visible that, up to half of this year, they are almost not used at all, and will be focused on preserving jobs. I would like to point out, of course, that this is also a short-term measure which I firmly believe will preserve the number of jobs in the Republic of Croatia and that there will be no greater inflow of unemployed people in the record of the Croatian Employment Office. Here, once again I point out, I support the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38321	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will also point out once again what the aim of this law is by shortening full-time working hours to limit the negative effects of the economic crisis on the labour market in Croatia through the adjustment of the conditions of height and way of providing support for the preservation of existing jobs, living jobs. Therefore, a new form of state aid is introduced to preserve jobs when an employer who is forced to reduce his economic activities. Besides, the purpose of this law is clear. He wants to shrink, as we've heard so far, but it's not too bad to repeat again, the inflow of new jobless unemployed and keep the current employment rate at this level. In order to reduce the duration of full-time to 32 hours a week in the state budget, two hundred and two hundred thousand workers are provided with EUR 200 million because it is time under this law that counts as full-time. In any case, it is one of the measures with a limited duration to overcome the negative effects of the economic crisis. It should also be said that the cost of disbursement of these aids is much less than any costs which, possibly by virtue of the applicable rules, would be paid to workers, i.e. damages if a job contract were cancelled. This law makes it clear that this government continues to invest in the economy, as well as insurance, as I have already said, social cohesion to act quickly and effectively on emerging risks, that it is ready for new challenges in line with the available conditions and opportunities. Finally, this proposal for a law as a new framework for state efforts is a contribution to the balance between the promotion of the economy and the preservation of social cohesion, justice and stability of the entire economic system. So these are the reasons, that is, all the reasons why I will support the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38323	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I am, in any case, supporting the Bill of Support for Jobs, simply because I think the workplace is some fundamental right from which, later on, we will see, it can eventually draw some other fundamental rights. So, I think this law was necessary, that it comes at a time when circumstances have led us to realize that a special law on support for job conservation is necessary and regardless of the possible objections and concrete proposals that they make, I think that, with any amendments, this law can absolutely be supported. But here are these few days and today related to the same topic, only in the broader context, employment, work, income, money we have at our disposal and how we will spend it more or less independently on the point of the agenda of water of the same debate, the same dialogues in terms of replicas, correction of allegations, all in some way the same and very often mentions the word hacks to actually turn from one topic to just one specific. It's been said of a hack, but it's been harassing for a long time, and the harassers have always been, so it wouldn't add any special value to it except some political or political dimension. But something else that is extremely important for all these discussions, including the budget rebalancing debate, the budget itself, and all these laws that allow budget rebalances to be implemented, I haven't heard from anyone what I think is important and essential. Of course the workplace means employment, but employment should mean work, and work should mean efficiency. I have not heard in any debate talk about work, talk about commitment to work, that work particularly efficient work can produce something that will get us out of crisis or not allow us to fall into crises and responsibilities for work and those who work and responsibility to one why, with the rebalancing of financial work and employment rebalancing. Of course, in the first place, it's always about the amount of work. Whether there is work or no work, but also depending on the efficiency of the job it has, on the number of jobs, on the need for these jobs, on the height of the salary as a stimulant or on the reward that comes down to the uranium, we come up with results that can fertilize or remain just like that. There are only two ways employers can make it possible. One is the state, the other are entrepreneurs, people are willing to invest, risk their own and make their own products. But speaking all the time about the expenditures of the state budget, and it is related to jobs and to the insurance of receipts in those jobs, very little was said or almost nothing was said about filling the budget. We also remember past times where it was important to be busy, work, always less than what you will be paid for. I remember my own experiences from the Soviet Union then, Russia, Moscow where employment was to guard the first steps of the escalator, and then it was about how busy everyone was. We are also aware of the situation in our economy, the shipbuilding that has problems, the construction industry that has problems, the textile industry, the metal industry, etc., which again comes down to the question of certain efficiency, rationality of business, losses and theft as Ozren Matijašević said the other day, how much she built in the Split square, for example, built and taken home. It's all a question where we're building our condition today, because I don't believe that the state exists as an abstract term. We're all state and all that's going on in the country is a picture of who we are. The garbage we leave on the beach after, in some cove after we leave and enjoy that morning there's garbage we'll find in another bay. It's not someone else's garbage, it's our garbage. So, it is very important that the consciousness of an individual who builds the consciousness of a society is built on, and I think that we work too little to show how responsible a man is to himself and to society and how effective he is, how sabotaged he is. By thinking that the efficiency of this Assembly and our fellow Members is not in the amount of work in terms of greater and longer speaking, but less speaking and less debates. One reverse proportion, that is, my judgment is based on relatively short experience. Something else that seems very important to me when we talk about our economy, the state of the budget, that is, the state of all of us, that is, the amount of text messages, the number of cell phones, phone calls. That's one story I had yesterday with my colleague Maric a little bit of a clean talk in one of these linguistic attractions that work on black gives birth to a gray economy. I guess it washes out with time. There's no colleague Maric. It washes away, so that black paint turns to gray. But obviously this one parallel life that exists in times of crisis and beyond the crisis means something, so to preserve jobs and the state's income, it's very important to control that one gray zone or if you want to work on black to bring it. In just one morning, a few days ago, in just one morning, I was referred to as a parliamentary representative, and of course knowing that in that profile of calling and occupation, I was intervened for 270 million euros in investments provided by the money, but somewhere in a drawer stands either here or here or there. So this shows that all those who had to solve a problem, some complaint, give some document, etc., are not aware of how much they are part of that budget and look at 270m euros in salary of a thousand euros or 500 euros. How much of the pay that's standing is blocked. It's partly on the trail of what counterpart Cain was talking about, mentioned in one of his upstairs speeches, but I wanted to say that it's not a question of government, but that it's a question of general consciousness, that it's not a question of state-owned apparatus, but of our consciousness, because that one machine lasts forever, constantly and not changing by choosing those who will be at the top. That's why I'm not worried about the question, I mean, I'm worried, but I have my own experience, so I'm saying I'm not worried. I do my home rebalancing every month, so it makes sense for me that the state has its own rebalancing. A man must adapt to the circumstances that he is. I'm used to living not on the credit account, although I was raised at the time of the loan, because the credits that were being devaluationd and everyone who took the loan was counting on him to raise 100 today and will return 10 tomorrow in some other time. And maybe that consciousness is still in our heads, living on account of what I produce, and when I produce it, some of it goes... I myself had a crisis in business almost until bankruptcy in the beginning of 2000 but again with my work and my colleagues and working associates came out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I absolutely support the concern of keeping jobs, but I also encourage the topics of discussion to make employment more efficient and thus reduce the problems that we have been talking about today and these days for as long as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38325	Thank you. Three replicas. First Mrs. Zeljana kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I would actually like to replicate to an esteemed colleague of Roshin who was talking about this good law that we're going to discuss today. And I, like you, Mr. Roshin, support the preservation of jobs, and I believe that you, as an employer, are formerly very sensitive to the area. And you said so I'll try to complement you, that regardless of the suggestions we made today in this debate, this law may, in your opinion, be supported. I agree with that. But I believe that no one in this debate has pointed out enough, so I will try to supplement you, said that it would be cheaper to co-finance the retention of employment than to pay unemployment fees. The result of the global crisis is seen in the Croatian economy, and I believe that this is a measure that can prevent any negative trends that could occur that the law we are discussing today is not being passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38327	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38328	Well, certainly, the addition of my conviction with your replica is good and useful. And I would just like to point out in my reply to the replica as well and point out how much of course it depends on the nature of the man, because there are people who walk on the Split Riviera and say that I won't work for 5 thousand kuna to kill me. It's below my level. Well, don't do anything but work for it. But it seems to me that the question is to protect the downside that a man needs to waste his time rationally. So in the Assembly, maybe time listening to some debates that are actually useless in the meantime, do something else that may possibly be useful that I am trying in some modest ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38329	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38330	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. So here I would like to sort of praise Mr. Roshin's debate, because it seems to me that through that debate he tried to appeal to the return of ethics to finance and to the importance of work and how important it is about jobs. And what we agree on is that everyone's job needs to be made possible, it's one of the fundamental human rights. But it is certain that many people today in the Republic of Croatia do not have a job. As there are unfortunately many whose work is overrated, I would say overpaid. In fact, I've advocated through my budget rebalancing debate to revise management contracts in public enterprises, because I don't think it's natural and normal for someone to earn 50,000 kuna a month and have all the privileges of an official car, card and other things. But I would also like to say that, except in this way, it could be saved so that these benefits could be increased for the unemployed and in some other sectors. And that's mostly when we talk about the heads of certain counties. I have to point out an example of Sisak-Moslavina County where the mayor has a salary of nearly 30 thousand kuna, where she has an official car and a card. But what concerns the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County most is that with such a large salary the mayor spends county money for private purposes by buying eggs, scented salt or spending in two days on a national team of over 100,000 kuna, justifying it by the arrival of a high official. Believe me, I know this man and he really can't eat in one day for 100,000 kuna. That is why I find it important to talk about this topic of colleagues, and how much work is really worth, whether some are underpaid, and some are overpaid, and where this price borders on abuse of position.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38331	Replication response, Mr. Representative Jerko Robshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38332	Thank you for the words spoken called ethics. It seems to me that too little ethics in general in our lives has ruled that our ethics in all fields, media followed, in the Assembly, is being followed, in public followed all the way down to lower levels. And that ethic of responsibility to our own work and responsibility to other people's work. Because I can't leave my desk without leaving people who work downstairs to earn what they have to do in advance. So there's my responsibility to my work, according to the work of another. And when you mention your mayor, then I can tell you some of my experiences that I know are not so in other counties and that it seems to me, of course, that we must point to these examples. Today, it is probably one extreme negative case compared to some others who could not thus qualify, at least the one I know and our mayor of Split-Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38333	Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've been trying really hard to listen to you. You, in your debate, have somewhat united to say all these and the rebalances of the budget and the laws that we have been discussing until this moment. I'm one of those, and I don't think there's any difference in opinion in this assembly, to share your concern for the preservation of jobs. And when you talked about having you as well as I guess each of us running some of our own budget rebalance, care about our own budget, etc. What, however, is clearly not agreeable, and this is who in this country has to bear the greatest burden when it comes to this bill of law that we are now discussing, thus preserving jobs? So is it possible they're unemployed right now? I see the secretary of state waving his head, I'm sorry, so you took off the unemployment item, then you took off the unemployed not 10, 15, 30 million kuna, 127 million kuna. You took off 9 million kuna on subsidies to farmers of small and medium craftsmen and entrepreneurs in this budget rebalancing you do so. You also took off more than 5 million kuna support for people with disabilities from the Employment and Rehabilitation Fund. If those funds don't go there, then please tell us where those funds are going and what they're being redistributed to. So what were they used up in advance? So somewhere around here, you can't absolutely agree that the burden of preserving new jobs is borne by just the ones who are left behind, who are left out of work at this hour, the sura will run out and run out of work for the next month. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38335	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38336	Comrade Sobol, how can I answer you, how can I replicate your replica when you haven't replicated to me? Mr. Secretary of State should give you answers, not me. I picked up that I'd call you, so you said I'd covered everything that's been going on so far. And that's true, I said that actually all of these points that are being discussed talk about the same subject. As far as you're right or wrong about this law, I haven't studied it so much and I'm not professional enough to be able to give criticism or commendation for every article of the bill's proposal, but I liked it very much as my intention to support it. But let's just say that Greek fellow wasn't abstract, he was very specific when he said his amendment was practically spoken to me and I think it's okay. God, if we had as much of this kind of debate in this House as possible where we're talking about concrete things and we're not staying at the level of general and political rather than specific individual law, which I'm not saying that everything that's written in this law is absolutely correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38337	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38338	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think that praise is worth every effort of the state and then the Parliament that could secure new jobs or protect current jobs. And in that sense, it is welcome to come to this bill but it is actually an alibi for the ineffectiveness of the government's anti-recession measures. Why? On the one hand, the government is offering to support the state to preserve jobs, thus providing support to entrepreneurs, companies, state budget firms. At the same time, companies, by adopting the Law on VAT increases from 22% to 23% take, take and thus weaken the company's economic position and certainly the government itself influences to quit in these companies. Now the government appears as a savior by administrative measure that it will return some money from the budget to those companies to preserve jobs. But the absurdity of the proposal for the text of this law explicitly states: "As the Croatian Employment Service for Material and Legal Protection of Unemployed Persons already has so many funds provided and so much money will reroute them to protect jobs now valid.". The government, therefore, stated in its very explanation that it would use the funds provided for the protection of the unemployed in order to preserve the jobs of the employees. And in that sense, there is only reason that the workplace is not only a source of existence but a place of dignity. And in that sense this law makes sense, but he's absolutely alibi policy trick law in terms of anti-recession measures. So the state is administratively trying to save jobs and economic measures are destroying them, as simple as possible. Second, it should be noted that the law also has demagogue desires. It is said in Article 1 that this law is prepared to eliminate the negative effects of the global economic crisis at least in this sector in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this law will not apply to the effects of the crisis produced by the Croatian State itself and the Croatian Government itself or not. If the message is that they are not there then we are blind in our own eyes, and if we are not blind but we want to say this then the effects will not be applied in Croatia because Croatia as far as we are different, we think it has produced its own crisis with 90% of its own responsibility. Only 10% of the impact of the global crisis on our economic situation. That this is how the Croatian state and the Croatian government do not even serve the economic measures that serve the countries in which the crisis occurred. So they're not the same sources, because they're not the same measures, it's quite obvious. The third thing I want to say is that workers will keep the job in which we will see it, very small but that they will have a reduced salary increased by the state only 10% for that day that will not work, or within a few days that will not work. However, it opens up a new problem that does not say it will be solved here. In order to achieve pension rights, it is necessary to have full-time hours of 40 hours a week, or how long the total pension time is required. What effect does such a measure cause in that part of the worker? It is mentioned here, though, that Article 7a is derrogated. The labour law. I don't know why it's derrogated if it's derogated when it's going to get stronger because this is a lex specialis law and it addresses support issues for the economy and entrepreneurs and should not affect the rights of workers from a working relationship at all. Then it would be a real measure, and I'm not so sure that he's in favor of the workers who would continue to work under this law at all. And the third thing I want to say is the schizophrenic behavior of Croatia. With one law we fight to keep jobs, let's say that's the law. At the same time, the Law prohibiting work on Sundays is in force. And when some warned that the effects of the law would be between 10 and 20 thousand unemployed and damage in tourist resorts, then the government did not respond at all to it, it was immune, insufferable, insensitive. Now from, I repeat, an alibi for reasons offers a law that will have zero effects. Therefore, where is the system that offers and which sees the way out of the crisis? We can talk about such measures as we have talked about so far, at the rhetorical level, and not at the level of essence, established facts and desirable goals that would be published and that we can control whether or not the government has results. In view of the circumstances offered through this law, the best way to go is to say, we really are to preserve jobs, but the effects won't be, so the wolf is full and the goat is on the count, but whoever suffers suffers, the workers suffer because he will be out of work, without pay, and will be damaged when he retires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38339	Thank you. Two corrections, one replica. First Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleagues, Lek, who said the government is influencing the dismissal. On the contrary, this law protects jobs and this is not an alibi law, this is one in a series of laws with which the government has determined to fight the crisis both in the economy and in the area of finance. I'll remind you that in three weeks, two rebalancings have been brought in, that a whole series of measures and unpopular, but brave, crisis-infected, or tax-induced, VAT rates are increased, additionally taxed, and all at the same time not to touch the most sensitive groups of socially vulnerable people, so as not to touch the birth benefits, not to touch the child's allowance, that 900 thousand pensioners are not touched with incomes of less than 3000 kuna, not to touch 600 thousand employees with less than 3000 kuna. And as a point on and, after the two-day negotiations with employers and owners, no price is raised for different directorial services, costs, no food prices and basic household supplies are raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38341	Thank you. This was a colleague's correction, not a replica. ... No, no, I said two corrections and one replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replica will be from Vice-President Zeljke Antunovic. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38342	Thank you very much. So fellow MP, you said that this law is at the rhetorical level and that you should see if there are any results at all, that this government can't see that it will have results related to that law. Well, that's incorrect because the government, first of all, creates conditions for entrepreneurs, creates conditions for those companies that, in this difficult economic, economic situation, struggle to preserve jobs. So it's not government to hire or fire, it's what entrepreneurs do, it's what employers do, and the government just gives them conditions. So this law is not at the level of rhetoric, I think we should ask the question to the Croatian employers' association, which is one of the participants of this law and must have taken care of it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38343	The replica of Vice President Dom. Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38344	In his presentation of one of the formulations set out in Article 1 of this Law, MP Josip Leko, in a way, dedicating something that I think deserves an assessment of the ridiculous formulation and expressed his opinion on it, or warned that such a formulation indicates a lack of understanding of the government in relation to the objective that this law seeks to achieve. This prompted me to try to replicate with you a little bit on the subject because it, do not mind, a ridiculous formulation will not significantly affect whether this law will give or will not give effect, but it points to a fundamental problem that cannot be dealt with or faced with by the ruling political elite or by the ruling majority who has the greatest commitment to how to solve problems and get out of the crisis. In fact, as long as we are honest in front of these people, in front of the people, we do not tell ourselves what our problems are, until we deal with whether they are imported and how imported they are or because of the bad moves of the government, the economy or I do not know which structure we will not be able to find the right, the best and the effective solutions and it is indeed one of the serious problems. I unfortunately hoped in vain that the seriousness of this state and its citizens would encourage the ruling majority, above all the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be more serious in its approach, but unfortunately this formulation also shows that they are not fully aware of their obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38345	Replication response, Mr. Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38346	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, dear colleague Antunovic. The total anti-recession measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be disclosed, so it will be seen that calling for macroeconomic conditions and this measure are in a schizophrenic relationship. The introduction of an increased VAT does not favour more favourable macroeconomic conditions for the business of the Republic of Croatia's economy but makes it difficult for these conditions and reduces the ability to keep jobs and further reduces the ability to create new jobs. If this is added to the introduction of income tax, wages, etc., and then one administrative measure already provided for the money for the unemployed, it wants to keep existing jobs from that money. It is indeed a schizophrenic proposal for anti-recession measures, so it should be shown and exposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38347	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38348	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So this Proposal for a Law on Support for Job Conservation, as said by MP Kunst, the Economic Council and the social partners, proposed at the end of 2008 or before the beginning of 2009. However, I ask myself, and I immediately asked myself a question, and why has the law been pending so far? Because already there was a recession, a loss of jobs that especially pointed out in the wood, textile industry was lost by our producers, the recession had already waved in Europe, and there were no more jobs that had been done before. The same thing happened in agriculture, in the food industry, people were already out of work. Why, when it was suggested, why didn't you see it? Everyone saw it in some way, it seems that the only government didn't see it. And now that you're reading these reports, or suggestions that say the debate report on the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government says about this law, the proposing representative said that firing workers would have a greater negative impact on the achievement of budget revenues. So now that we've seen it, and already thank God for 6 months this year, if we have less money, we have to do something to get that money. It's not that jobs were lost before, and people were out of work, but it was now seen in the budget. Although we have found in the material itself that in the first 6 months of the same period, compared to 2008, 5% more and 5% more unemployed, 12,431 people are mentioned here and a finding that is very important that 50% of newly registered unemployed enter directly from a broken employment relationship. So these are the ones who have lost their jobs over the last six months, so 50% of those raised in this employment office, they're the ones who worked, they're not the students who finished high school, so they signed up for the first time, but the ones who had their jobs, they had their own loans, they had their families, they had their own kids, I don't know, they're probably out of a job now, and their problems are big. All of this, in my opinion, is that the government's promoter only when she saw this little revenue in the budget set out for something that should have taken place at the beginning of this year or in the rebalancing sector already for 2009 with such a legal provision. Therefore, we see that this law and this legal provision are at least half a year late. However, both employers and trade unions also argue that this law is too late and that future 50,000 or more fired workers will not benefit much from this. It is also considered incompatible, and particularly unacceptable after the adoption of this crisis tax of 2% and 4%. After this wage reduction, it is certainly not acceptable for trade unions, and for workers to re-enter for a reduction in wages after this crisis tax due to a reduction in this week's work week, therefore the salary will also be reduced. Especially that I mean unacceptable what's being mentioned here, it's going to be very good for those who are on the minimal. So I'm asking myself a question that a businessman will reduce a working week and at the same time pay him a minimumer because if he pays him a minimumer, he has to pay him back whether he's had that week or not, he's been working for 4 or 5 days. Whoever's in this textile wood industry, there's the minimum wage, and there's the biggest problems, so I don't know how it's going to be realized. What's even so interesting, is that wage cuts have already been done before. We are witnessing a reduction in the wages that the workers themselves have accepted. What did they accept it for? Well, I'd better stay in the workplace, even if it's less, but the rest of them are working. However, I am afraid that this was also going in the direction that part of the salary was paid possibly on black, and that is why I am stressing again, it should have come at much earlier, because at the moment that these salaries are already in individuals and reduced, it will not have one real effect. What was the speech and that is what MP Vidovic was saying, the question is how much is now this legislation that should be implemented and these conditions for acquisition, they are in some way not to say complicated for these possible subsidies of 3 months plus possibly 3 months. The grant fee to employers at the level of the difference in the contribution that the state will make for workers who have reduced their working week to 32 hours means that it is one and 10, and 13%, respectively, to make up for the pay cut, if the worker has the child asking the employer to meet certain conditions to achieve this. This is what is mentioned in 2007 cannot be done with loss. In the second half of 2008 or the first half of 2009, there was a loss in business that did not occur until 31.7. In addition, there should be a programme to preserve jobs, reduce working hours, and that what is most important, in addition to this request, contributes that there are no outstanding obligations for compulsory contributions under the specific regulation. Now, I'd like to get back to where we started, or at the beginning I'm going back to the beginning of my presentation and the motionor's statements that they just didn't feel these budget cuts, then there probably wouldn't be any adoption of this law, and in particular that these contributions that may have not been settled, and many have not been reconciled because they say the crisis is, recession, this, that, etc. So the state won less there, too. So one and the other when they add up, it's seen that these offerings are getting smaller and that we should go with this law that we've been talking about for a long time. That's why I end up thinking that the law was supposed to be, but I'm skeptical of the solutions and the opportunities this law will give to preserve jobs. I think it should be done as soon as it was spoken, we all seem to agree, and it is still a year ago, without thinking that it should not have this great legislation, but what Vidovic mentioned, as it is done in Slovenia, because I fear this operation will already take place on a dead patient, or those who have lost their jobs will no longer benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38349	Thank you. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38350	... Dear colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] In these few days, we've really been listening to everything and everything, but I'm afraid we've heard most of what we really need. First of all, I'm thinking about the budget that we've been working very hard on in the last few days. Here we are today talking about a law that is really necessary and in a way that would help the economy that is indeed in certain difficulties. At the same time, however, the impression that everything and what has not been proposed so far, and what was reportedly coming from the opposition circles, even when the government proposes certain measures that it has really planned, is then said to be a bill that will not be revived, then it is said that it is a hunt in a blur, that individuals in this law will seek their own solutions. And I really don't understand what kind of laws these laws should be for me today and for individuals at the same time, and I'm particularly talking about opposition to these same laws being good. At the same time, however, the Croatian government is seeking to pass laws and support in the economy, those who will indeed help the economy. I will just remind myself that in this difficult time really the biggest problems are those companies that have hit the global and economic crisis, which is primarily the wood industry, the textile industry and, of course, all those branches that are suffering major damage and loss today. If we all knew together when there would be a crisis, how much it would leave deep marks in the economy, then we would certainly know and take certain measures. At the same time, however, it is said only when a particular problem arises, and then all of them are free to say smart things and to share lessons with people who are today running the economy and hiring a number of people. No one here mentioned today that the Government of the Republic of Croatia paid more than 60 million kuna in support of the wood industry through its programme and through the wood industry 20 days ago. Dear friends, why don't we speak publicly and openly to the citizens, because citizens listen to this today? Why are we saying that this draft Job Support Act is not good? So I agree that maybe it should have been sooner, but at the same time I'm asking you from what means? Where the government was supposed to sow these funds, when at the same time in a short period of time we made two budget rebalances, and only in a week. I'm asking you, which one of you is hiring people today? And I ask you which one of you gives one, one personal income? Feel free to raise your hand. I also spoke here last year about certain problems in the economy, but at the same time, individuals also took it seriously and exaggerated it. Does 8 million and 500 thousand jobs in the world, where there are so many people left or where they are going to lose their jobs, not talk enough about the global and economic crisis? Why, dear friends, do you wish exclusively to transfer this global economic crisis to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the former prime minister and our current Prime Minister? Why are you so public that indeed you on the left, truth not all, but individuals have a vision, and at the same time you've been in power for 4 years and you haven't been for so long, because you didn't get citizens' trust, because you didn't know and you couldn't overcome the crisis in 2001 or 2994. And today, at the same time, you're giving lessons in the right way, the right way. At the same time, you support trade unions that are all-increased for higher wages, while at the same time the state budget is reduced daily due to reduced economic activity. I'm asking you where and how is it possible that one finance minister will pay off all possible wishes of a union called one or the other? This budget cannot survive unless there is an economy, and it will survive if it has the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. He's had it so far, and I'm sure the government, especially in this preparation, will find a solution for next year's budget to help the economy even more, as well as how to propose new aid laws for any other activity. Because the only existence of the economy through these support guarantees both the survival of both civil servants and unions and all those who do not work in the production business. Dear friends, if we hear today, and we're witnessing that some unions want to take people out on the road, that some unions really support the fire of something that doesn't have a future, do these trade unions know the same thing if the economy is in crisis? That it can't be paid in advance, in the ministry if we don't earn it in production. And at the same time, when we pass such laws that are important for supporting and preserving jobs, we now again say that this is not good and that this law will not deliver its results. And that is why I would really ask that when we talk and when we introduce ourselves to the public, we try to tell the truth in a really hard way. Let's not hide behind the political panflems. And I asked at the beginning which of you gives any salary to your employee to have him employed? You don't know and say something that's unfounded. And if you were in the economy, I'm sure you'd talk differently. When we talk about certain criminal provisions, you would suggest here to the secretary of state, that this criminal provision of 100 to 200 thousand kuna, Mr. Secretary of State, is indeed unfounded. Who today will guarantee in this difficult time that you will collect your claim, if at the same time because of this difficult situation comes into question both charges and in a short period of time and certain companies even go bankrupt. Therefore, I ask that this criminal provision be deleted because it will indeed not be misused, but this criminal provision cannot indeed be applied under such difficult conditions. And I will therefore support this bill, because I believe that the Government with this kind of support gives support to the economy, and that is a guarantee that we will keep jobs. And if we don't give this kind of support and if we fire 50,000 people, then the Employment Service doesn't have the resources to settle that kind of costs. So I support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38351	Thank you. We have one correction and three replicas. First, the correction is the honourable representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to correct the allegations from fellow Lucic's inspired speech, until he touched one topic when he said that we from the opposition had visions this week. I think that quote is completely incorrect. That vision, or visions, all last week had a government when several times she proposed her bill, and as far as vision goes, we are not known for consummating the insurgency unlike your party colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38353	I think I have to warn you, don't deliver that sort of thing. It has nothing to do with the subject or the client. We have three replicas. First, he's a respected representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38354	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's Mr. Lucic asking some questions, saying what laws do we need to pass to measure our opposition? If we had known, he says, how would the crisis go would have done this to me sooner. But most of all this part of his question, who's paying us? Mr. Lucic, we know you're an entrepreneur. But you don't pay, you can only give what someone earned. What's earned, you pay for it. And you don't pay. I don't know, right, and here's where it's supposed to be getting something. Once given, the state gave for opening non-existent jobs. Probably someone took money like that, so he gave it to them, but I don't know who, to myself or to workers who didn't exist. Next thing. It's a timely move. Why didn't you make the right moves? So you didn't listen to the opposition, you didn't listen to the opposition that gave 20 or more anti-recession laws. It was supposed to get the rebalancing down like this, so let's go to it with a law like this. Why wasn't there any money? Well, it was the government that was supposed to triage problems, investments, promises. So who's supposed to be doing it? Well, the Minister of Finance. Now the finance minister couldn't keep everybody calm. Well, he can't calm everyone down, he needs to be given and evaluated. So that's why he's a minister, and that's why he lives there and works and gets paid. So let's not rely afterwards that we're all equally guilty, there's no money, now we've figured that out, and now we're gonna come up faster and better to solve this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38355	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38356	Well, I don't agree with you. I didn't only understand when you asked who was paying here. I thought we had a lot of speakers, when it comes to the economy, and very little meeting with the businessmen at all not to say that they don't know much about the economy. I gave 230 personal incomes every month until yesterday, now I'm giving 170 still. And I don't agree with your thesis. Because the government has been supporting both the leather and textile industries for all these years, 100 million wooded 60th, so we'd all like it to be 3 times as much. But please, and what the minister has said many times, show the item to the state budget that we will delete, reduce, and everyone can be satisfied at the same time. When you touch any item, everyone goes to the back of their feet. And then what? I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38357	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Lucic, in his presentation today, you are amazed at why here are the opposition's entire global crisis and we're moving on to those weak shoulders of your government, the former prime minister and now the current prime minister. Because like them, it's nothing to blame. There's been a crisis in the world, and what we're going to do today, we don't have the money, and we need to figure it out. A colleague over a year ago we warned you, not just us from these benches, but experts. I guess at least some experts in this country believe. That the crisis has begun to affect the world, that it is inevitable that it will affect Croatia as well. At the beginning of the year, on the last budget. At the beginning of the year, you said that we were scaring the people when we asked if it was true that the budget was reduced, so that 2 billion kuna budget gap grew, you tell us today how much it grew. Because of the government's inaction, because of ineffectiveness, because of irresponsibility. Because it's from the x direction you've announced yourself you didn't start on time. You haven't made the measures you needed today. Once, the current prime minister said to a journalistic question several months ago why not go with certain measures, why not listen to the businessmen, she then said that the government is thinking intensively every day. So what do we have today? We have one law that will come true by taking those who need it most, and that's those who will be out of work tomorrow, unemployed. Well, you know what? If, after so many months of thinking, this government only came up with such a law, it's better not even think anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38359	Thank you. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38360	My colleague, I've never said that the government does not bear part of the responsibility, but this rhetoric of yours says in this year especially when you talk about a hack, when you're only talking about a government shift. So you're replacing a legally elected government. You don't give this president of ours who's elected a chance for a woman to show what she knows and what she can do with her team at the same time. At the same time, we'd like you to come to power with some force. This people will not and will not bear any force. So Mr. Bauk was talking about the economy. Well, sir, one day you weren't in the economy of your colleagues, so don't be angry because you came from college to the Deputy Minister. Imagine what this government had in the future with such a young perspective that it did not say anywhere. So don't talk about the government. The government will make moves and show you this in the 2010 budget, and you would like to make moves in ten days that will bring about a five-year period or maybe ten-year period. So please wait. This government has legitimacy, this government has a majority in parliament and therefore do not want extraordinary elections. And those unions that you're trying to win over overnight, those same unions have to know, with your government if you come to power in two, three years, you're going to bring the IMF and then these same unions and these workers are going to lose 50% of their wages and pensions, and it's going to be to them like it was in 2001. And is that the future of your program then, and is that the future of your government that you've been talking about here for days?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38361	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38362	Mr Vice President, Articles 209 and 214 have been injured. Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Lucic replicated his colleague Sobol, and he mentioned me with nothing. And I think there's... This Regulation shall enter [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] The Rules of Procedure have also violated Article 214. The Rules of Procedure for demeaning me as a person who, when she was 20 and a few years old, acted as a civil servant. I think it's about time discrimination and he deserved a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38363	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because you just made an insult to an entire party. So, if you're asking someone to keep the Rules of Procedure away from you first, and what you're saying right now is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure at all, the usual rhetoric in this House. Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38364	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 was injured because my colleague Lucic in response to the replica I had on his basic exposure and the allegations he made there accused me and I guess my colleagues on this side that we were calling for a shift from power to force. Mr. Vice President, no one in this House has spoken of it. What we're looking for is an early election, something we have every right to, not to ask for a power shift. And keep an eye on what he's saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38365	Honorable MPs, same answer as the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. It's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the usual rhetoric that was even much more mild than it was yesterday and the day before yesterday here in this Assembly. Let's move on with the replica, Reverend Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38366	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's not good for either side or for this side to be pollemated with something that's not said, to put thoughts or fixations in our mouths without you polluting with what's said. It is neither good for this House nor for this people, nor for your party, nor for the opposition to say nonsense in the House. Read a phonogram of what you have said, and let some expert read to you, and you will see what you have said. And that's not good. And we, Mr. Vice President, have warned the whole series of months, and we have warned during this debate that the measures that are now proposed will be counterproductive, that it will not lead to the desired result, that the measures proposed by the Croatian government are contrary to all the anti-recession measures proposed in the world. We have also warned so that it should be kept in mind that the Government is the one who needs to help the people and should intervene in cases of crisis but in a way that gives adequate results to improve the state of the people. And the measures that are now being introduced are we consider exactly the opposite. And with that, you should have polymized your colleague Lucic, not with what you put in our mouths as well as your thoughts and your fixations. And I don't think it's good for you or for us, or for those who listen to us, or for those who need to apply these measures in the future that we need to take because I think you've greatly reduced the credibility of what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38367	Thank you. Before I respond to the replica, I have to say. Look, calling someone's argument nonsense isn't good. ... I'll take out your phonogram and read it to you at 3:00. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You didn't get the word. You can't talk if you haven't got the word. ... Replication response. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38368	Comrade Flego, I really don't doubt your expertise, and I ask you to just tell me if I ever spoke of your profession to you in any way. I spoke today as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and today everyone here is allowed to speak in a free dictionary and I was speaking today, sir, about the economy from which I come. I'm the best person to feel these difficulties and the problems we're in. You don't have to tell me I was saying something pointless. I've only said what's going on in the economy with the preservation of every job, and it hurts when I have to think about it, I'm gonna have to fire a man or not. And I'll only give you my example. 40% of my company's exports decreased, 20% decreased domestic consumption because we're related to construction. And I'm asking you now, without these support from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, how do you proceed? How to ensure the same to the employee personal income if everything was different until yesterday, and today only in a short period of time everything changed. And that's why I have the right to talk about it, and I never doubted your expertise, and I didn't say when it came to your subject that I once corrected you. But I'm saying this from the heart, I'm not speaking politically, and that's why you have to understand that these words of yours that are directed from this left hand side of yours, they cross every border at some point, and that's why they're calling for extraordinary elections. Why are you calling? Well, you're calling for an extraordinary election, and you don't have a program. What are you gonna tell people? In 2001, give them back and put the IMF on their backs. Then these unions, neither Ana Knezevic nor William Ribic nor anyone will ever accuse HDZ again, will then probably accuse you of paying 50% less.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38369	Thank you! Your time is up. And we have another debate to finish this agenda. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. Two weeks ago, in front of Mr. Vice-President, the prime minister approached us and said that for this extraordinary session, the government will prepare a series of measures that have the next objective, I quote, "a strong boost to the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia and ensure the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia". We received the Law on Salaries in Local and Regional Self-Government, Law amending the Law on VAT, Law on Special Taxes, Employment Intermediation Act, Employment Conservation Act, Law on compensation for provision of services in mobile electronic communications, Law on Contributions, Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, Act on Tourism and Construction Land. I now address you government representatives to explain to us in the final address that these laws we have received, which I have read now, in which they will strongly encourage and which economic branches, will ensure the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia. We just heard from my predecessor that the opposition doesn't understand much about the economy. Yesterday we heard that we in HNS even belong... /The speaker turned off./...so, we heard... please? ... Yeah, somebody pushed it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we heard today... /The speaker turned off./... I'll hold him then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we've heard that we're not able to figure out what's going on in the economy. Yesterday we heard that we even belong in the HNS of another species, another species. So I'm going to ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, in a very simple way, to explain to us and Croatian citizens the following, regarding these proactive and economic measures. So what you're proposing today is short-term measures, they'll be worth it by the end of the year. We are certainly interested in what will be next year, which will be 2011. I expect these short-term measures to be part of one package, one strategy, one concept that the government has to get us out of this situation. In the course of the debate yesterday and the day before, it became clear that 90% of our problems today are due to our own failures and mistakes, I will already be ours, yes, and 10% because of the recession. When in the world in a year, two get out of recession, all our problems will remain in our house and we will have to solve them. Well, we're interested, for example. related to the economy, which so far has its head above water, you intend to help expand its production, employ new employees, increase exports and move in a positive direction. Secondly, which economic branches whose nose is just below the surface of the water you think you can save, help them to be competitive with new technologies and get out of the situation they're in. Third, which economic branches you do not intend to help because you do not think they have a chance in the competition. And the fourth and final question, what are you going to do to make people open new companies and help them, in which segment, give it a production... /The speaker turned off./... So let's see which new businesses, companies, you'll stimulate to open up, in which areas. Economy, you want that to be what we're importing now so we can try to cut imports, increase exports? Give us the concept that the Government and you and you in front of the Ministry of Economy have to really, what the Prime Minister said, strongly encourage economic development and ensure the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I've been asking for two days, nobody knows how to tell me. Someone from the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Tourism, etc. will be behind you. They can't ask that. That's why I have to ask you. Please help us, tell us which direction this government is thinking. Long-term, clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38371	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Miljenko Pavlakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. After here's your debate I'll try to sum up the questions that were here. I think that this very support for the preservation of jobs certainly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia wanted and what we all must do is to preserve jobs economically, to maintain the stability of the Croatian economy. I will try to move in order that what is in the law itself in Article 1 where the global economic crisis is mentioned I must say here that we are staying with this claim because and precisely from your discussions where other countries have been mentioned, which have introduced certain measures, and obviously they are in crisis and the Republic of Croatia is not the only one when the whole world is saying that this is a global economic crisis and we will remain in Article 1 with that definition. Why didn't we do something that was proposed in 2001? We did not introduce this measure in 2004 because just from 2004 until the global economic crisis we had a trend of unemployment in the Republic of Croatia, and since this trend of unemployment was in decline until the moment of the crisis, we did not go into taking this measure into account. How this global economic crisis came about clearly that in our analysis we started with a measure like this. Perhaps what someone similarly suggested in 2001, but we have previously offered a solution to increase employment in the Republic of Croatia. The contribution to this is that just in 2008 the average survey rate in the Republic of Croatia was at the level of what is also in the Eurozone, which means what is in the European Union. Surely this support speaks of one solidarity, but when we talk about solidarity, what is said for the way this measure is financed and sources of funding, it is evident that in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, the state budget that the redistribution of funds is not to be taken out of unemployment compensation to finance this support measure. It is taken in part, it is precisely from active employment measures where the activity, what we have said in the interpretation of the law, is not to the extent that it was in the past year or earlier, so the funds have fallen somewhat, and other funds within the framework of the division of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship where we have redistributed the funds to this amount of 200 million kuna that we consider adequate for this support to preserve jobs. Surely the employers will be and they have already shown interest in this measure, especially that the Croatian Employers' Association and most of the trade unions have accepted this type of support for the preservation of jobs, so I have no doubt that there will be no uninterest, but on the contrary, that employers will certainly be interested in this measure because this measure is again taking care of one and the social policy, of one solidarity that we do not send it 50 or how many thousands of people to the stock market or the Croatian Employment Office, we are already reducing the working week, the state budget is financing this difference because what is said to be reduced to contribute to pension and other contributions. No, I don't. It is clear to you in the law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the budget funds will pay up to 20% to employers all contributions from and on pay. So it includes both retirement and health, and that means that there are no new work hours, but that the short working hours up to 32 hours are considered full-time as they have been since 40 hours. So there won't be any such effects. What is finally said, yes, excuse me, to include, in explaining how these measures are financed, is the next point that will be in front of you, but I will just briefly look back, that exactly the average fee received by the unemployed means on the market in the register of the Croatian Employment Office is 1,600 kuna. So it's not funding that unemployment will finance this measure, but it's precisely from other budget funds and sources that we've come up with an amount of 200 million kuna. Clearly what is said here is that this is one of a series of measures that the government is taking to overcome this global economic crisis. Are your problems the same or the same? I'm not in a position here to bid and say that 90% of the problem we ate ourselves is obviously not, but that is the global financial and economic crisis. The measures that we, I must stick to this point, but other measures that we have taken and that have already taken to encourage entrepreneurship are a series of activities and measures that you have seen in the state budget of incentive measures, I will speak on behalf of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship of more than 380 million kuna for small and medium-sized enterprises, of the funds provided for by the Croatian export offensive from stimulation and in projects and in the programmes for the opening of new crafts, for the opening of new companies. What your fellow MPs were saying about other ministries that predicted the same...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38373	Dear Secretary of State, stick to the subject and point only.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38374	... etc. Thank you very much. I was just trying to answer the question. Finally, we also received an amendment from the esteemed representative Boris Kunst, which concerns Article 14(1) of the table 3 and asks for a point and a word to be added behind the words of support for unwarranted reasons to be added. We believe that we can accept this amendment, so we accept that amendment and it will enter into the text. We suggest you vote it in the text of these supports. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38375	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and I'm announcing, so we're finishing the morning session. We'll vote on this wheel when the conditions are met. We continue at 15 hours with the 8th item of the agenda, and this is the proposal for a law supplementing the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment, with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 419. Have a nice vacation and a good run.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38376	Fourthly, the Final Proposal of the Act on Support for Job Conservation. It was an emergency procedure P.Z. Number 418. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by agent Boris Kunst. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Job Support Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? The law was passed by most votes, 104 votes for and one vote abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38377	Dear MPs and MPs, we proceed with the session. It is time for the 8th point, as I announced – 8. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 419 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Miljenko Pavlakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is the draft Act on the Completion of the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment. I would like first of all to stress that this is also a temporary measure that will be in place until 31.12.2010. Just before, because of the impact of the global crisis on the economy and so on the labour market in the Republic of Croatia, there has been a significant increase in the number of cash benefits during unemployment. According to the Croatian Employment Institute's record in June 2009, there were 22.4% more than in the same month in the previous year, meaning in 2008, with almost 50% of newly registered persons who applied to the unemployment register coming directly from a broken employment relationship. In view of the fall in all economic indicators, I note as a temporary measure, we propose a reduction in the amount of the fee and to arrange for the maximum amount of compensation to be linked to the movement of the minimum wage prescribed, so that both the social and fiscal standards in the budget will be maintained. This would show that the maximum amount of net fee will be 2 thousand 251 kuna and 20 limes in the first 3 months, which is 100% minimum wage, in the remaining time to one year 80% or at this time thousands of 801 kuna, and the duration of the fee to employment or pension 60% or to a thousand 350 kuna and 72 June. In this way, savings are estimated at 15 million kuna in 2009, and about 30 million kuna in 2010. The clear funds of these savings will be targeted at support measures to preserve jobs, and to maintain as many jobs as possible. In this regard, we do not want the unemployed to bear the burden, for what should be taken into account is exactly the average paid fee of 600 kuna. So at this point in time, according to the applicable law, it's less than the fee proposed, less than the minimum salary for the first 3 months of 2 thousand 251 kuna and 20 limes. Since the average is about 600 kuna, we believe this is acceptable and we ask clearly for your vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38379	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I have to ask. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38380	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We have yet another law before us which, in my deep conviction, we should have actually held a united debate with this law that was before, because the amendment of this law is solely because of the adoption of the law that we previously talked about, which is donations to preserve jobs, because it has been repeated several times already, and in the extreme line there is also written in the reasoning of this law that the funds that will be saved, by reducing future unemployed people to measures and support to preserve jobs. So if it wasn't for that first measure, there wouldn't have been another measure. These few days, we are discussing in this Parliament a budget rebalancing, a series of legislative proposals, and we are repeatedly convinced that those socially sensitive groups of our society are not touched by these measures. That's what those who have three thousand kunas in the state think are able to bear the burden of the cost of the crisis, so I guess that's what those who will be unemployed tomorrow can do. I don't know if anyone in this country really thinks and is convinced that with the adoption of the law that we talked about earlier, which goes towards allegedly preserving jobs, that the inflow of unemployed at the Employment Service will suddenly fall. And I'm also asking here how this government didn't know, let's say, three, four weeks ago when we discussed that past budget rebalancing, I think it was another budget rebalance, so when it was precisely on the items that apply, the funds that go to the unemployed were increased by 240 million kuna. Three weeks after that or four weeks later, those funds are reduced by a total of 127 million kuna. I don't know if anywhere in the world there is a country in which you are in advance of those who will be out of a job will be taken in order to possibly, and very doubtfully, preserve someone else's, other jobs, because there you are without a job, so I guess you have even reduced some of your basic needs and now you will participate in solidarity with the citizens of the Croatian state in paying the price I would say irresponsibility and indemnity and fat delay of the Government with the adoption of adequate measures. Measures that would also encourage the economy and try to preserve jobs. But gentlemen, in this assembly and such measures of the government should have been discussed long ago, and at the latest in the budget line that voted here last year somewhere, if I'm not mistaken at the 11th month. Then it turns out that no one was aware of the crisis in which Croatia is located, that now, in the light of all these proposals of the law, as well as the one we're talking about, which is talking about reducing the compensation for future unemployed, 2008 and the movement on the world industry labour market, etc. Now it can be mentioned, and last year we were a sorceress in heaven or on earth. We were convinced that we would be unbroken. If not employees, those who are just going to lose their jobs and those who are jobless today are not one of the most sensitive groups of any society, then gentlemen tell me who they are. Those who are left, or who will lose their jobs. And so it got wet getting out of other items from the Bureau of Employment, let's say from that part of the Employment Action Plan, and just two or three months ago today's prime minister, then the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government was talking about the funds going into the Employment Action Plan and we're going to help these groups, and we're going to help those groups, etc. Now finally, from the explanation of this bill, the former one and the present one, we realize all together that these funds have not been spent at all. I repeat, I don't know if there's any example anywhere that those who are just going to lose their jobs, that they're going to finance those who would assume that they should keep their jobs. Nowhere in any sentence or word did you provide a projection of how much you think this inflow of unemployed, or newly unemployed, will be reduced by the Employment Service. Because the data that's from the 6th month. We have a newly reported 15 thousand 442 unemployed. Therefore, because of the employer's resignation, 10 thousand 638 is 78% of the total number, and almost 50% of them are here because of the decrease in the size of the business, because of the difficulties in business, etc. I remind you colleagues and colleagues that we've talked to this unemployment issue several times already. We talked last year when the new Employment Mediation Act was being passed. Then, of course, the measures and provisions of this law were praised. So as of the 1st year, compensations have increased compared to the average salary, the truth has been shortening. And I remind you that we also talked about this issue in the third month of this year, also in this Chamber, when it is on the agenda to choose a debate on the SDP proposal to amend the Employment Intervention Act. When the SDP proposed and warned the government of an increasing number of those who remain jobless. And proposed only then not to increase compensation, but to extend the period of time during which the unemployed with the grounds that came, with the basis of the difficulties of employers, surpluses, etc. to get that fee. We suggested that this period be extended. Then we were rejected because that's not necessary. At that time, eyes were closed before the number of newly unemployed from day to day grew and the trend continued and the trend grew from month to month. Then we were told that we create differences and injustices within the category of unemployed people. Because as they are now, it was also a proposal for a temporary measure, so now that those who come to the office from one base will have a slightly greater right, and those who were at the office by a certain date will have fewer rights, so now you're doing the same thing. You are now saying that according to this law, depending on when the law comes into force, let's say that it enters into force on August 5th. All those who will be out of work by August 5th will receive benefits and exercise rights under the current law, and those who will be left behind on August 5th will receive reduced fees. And now it's not injustice. So when the opposition proposes something, then it's an injustice and we're making differences, and now that you're proposing almost the same thing you're creating two categories of unemployed, when it comes to the amount of compensation, then it's not an injustice. Then it's solidarity, imagine with a crisis that has one good part gotten us into saying so by the current government, or the former, or the present government, it's also an old government. And otherwise to remind you when I'm talking about numbers, then you should say and remind the public that 247 thousand unemployed persons were recorded in the office at the end of June, which is 11.2% more than in June 2008. The largest share of registered unemployment has persons over 50 years or 72 thousand 917 or almost 30% who are over 50 years old. I said in June 2009, the unemployed registered 42% more than in June 2008. 15 thousand 442 people, and of that, those who have working experience over 83%. And I already said almost 50% straight from work somewhere. Otherwise, in June 2009, slightly less than 64 000 unemployed persons or 25.8% of the total number of unemployed used some cash compensation. So now that one category of people who are going to apply will not find their own will but because this government did not provide for at least one part of it in time and implement the measures which might and their job would be preserved now these new ones will have to bear here how this HDZ likes to say the burden of solidarity with I will say it with irresponsibility and indifference, and by the government's inability to actually predict the extent of the crisis that it did not knock but unfortunately entered a large wide open door in Croatia. What I want to ask is a question. In fact, it says the proposed addition of the law will be reached by the end of this year in the state budget of savings of 15 million kuna and around 30 million kuna during 2010. I'm asking a question and where does the rest of it go if it doesn't go all the way, and you tell me if it's going or not, that's being downloaded from the individual items of the Employment Office. If 127 million are downloaded on the item of material support, where those aids go, if 9 million kuna is removed from subsidies to farmers, companies, etc. And I ask small and medium-sized entrepreneurs the question on behalf of the club where it goes if it's not going into this because you tried to tell me on that previous law that it's not true that all these funds go to these 200 million kunas, but then I'm very interested in where they're going. So, I repeat again or if I didn't say the SDP would be against passing a law like this. We find it unfair if you want the unnecessarily unemployed to bear the burden of someone's irresponsibility and to reduce their compensation, and that even if they are already second-class citizens, they are also third-class citizens. And for those of you who may not understand why the government is cutting back on them, then this is how I'm going to read what's in the explanation, part of it. "In this respect, the calculations regarding the risks of social endurance and the preservation of a fiscally sustainable existential and socially acceptable minimum," which is why our dear future unemployed will be reduced to your compensation, so who understands what that means exactly understands. The SDP club will not vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38381	Thank you. It is the turn of the HDZ Club's distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38382	Thank you very much. Here I would like to remind you that this law which now applies to the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights during Unemployment, which has been applied since 1.1 this year, meant on 1 January 2009, significantly increased the amount of cash compensation to which workers who are left without their guilt remain without a job. Compared to those laws six years ago, which I often talk about, it was 200, 300% increase, so I will remind you that the highest amount of compensation was calculated normally from the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia as follows. In 2008, this average salary was somewhere in the gross amount of 7 thousand 544 kuna and in the net amount it was 5 thousand and 600 kuna and it served as a basis for calculating unemployment benefits. In the first three months, so this base was 3 thousand 900 kuna, so this fee they received from the unemployed who in the first three months had received 70% of that base, that is 3 thousand 920 kuna or 390% more than those six years ago. The remaining time to one year was 50% or 2 thousand 800 kuna, or 280% compared to six years ago. The permanent salary to employment or retirement amounted to 40% of this base, which was 2 thousand 240 kuna. During the past months in which we can call this situation whatever you want, but it is clear that this global crisis has significantly affected Croatia's economy, as well as the labour market, the number of unemployment beneficiaries has been significantly increased, and I agree with my colleague that there has been an increase in the number of unemployed, but I must remind myself that the current statistics still show that compared to the previous month, the number of unemployed decreases from month to month, which is certainly a large number of unemployed compared to last year. The comparisons were 22.4% higher than in the same month last year and almost 50% of newly registered persons on the unemployment records were entered directly from the interrupted employment relationship. Taking into account the overall macroeconomic developments that show for the first quarter of this year a significant decline in the gross social product that we discussed these few days of 6.7% and industrial production dropped 7.1%), and growth in gross foreign debt by 1% and reduced general consumption certainly is necessary in order to limit the fiscal consequences of the increase in the number of users of cash benefits during unemployment to temporarily reduce this maximum amount of compensation. I repeat temporarily again because this law has a limited duration of time as well as those discussed in previous discussions. When adopting a valid law, the one I'm talking about right now, not the one I'm going to talk about, is certainly the result of a multi-annual decline in unemployment rates, and I think you have to admit that, in fact, out of 400 thousand unemployed at one point, it came to 225 thousand unemployed in Croatia. And, of course, the number of beneficiaries of these financial fees was falling, and normally there were greater fiscal possibilities of the state budget, and normally, when the law was proposed, it could not be predicted that such an impact of the global crisis would be as unfortunately left its consequences today. However, under the current crisis conditions, the current level of compensation certainly is no longer socially sustainable, so it must be temporarily reduced. I emphasize and place the emphasis on temporary. And it will normally be tied to the level of the prescribed minimum wage that is socially acceptable and fiscally sustainable standard. And I repeat again, and when it comes to that minimum wage it will certainly be far greater than that fee, let's remember, which was 900 kuna for a long time and then the weighting of the long-term somehow increased by 100 kuna to a thousand kuna. Following such an arrangement, the maximum amount of compensation will be calculated from the minimum salary, since the monthly minimum salary in gross amount, here is just so much for the information, is 2812.93 kuna and the net 2251 kuna, that the maximum fee for the unemployed will be the net amount of the minimum salary of 2251.20 kuna in the first three months. And then she's going to fall, not 70% of her colleague, no, then she's going to fall, for the next year to 80%, and she's going to be 1801 kuna, and those workers who have the right to qualify for retirement or a new job, then she's going to be 60% or 1350.72 kuna per month, which is normally roughly the same, but approximately the amount that she was six years ago. The proposed addition of the law to the state budget will, according to estimates and what we heard from the secretary, achieve savings of 15 million kuna and around 30 million kuna during 2010 and those funds that will be saved in this way will focus on measures and support to preserve jobs and maintain the highest unemployment rate, which has its logic. No matter how hard you try to make fun of it now, it has its own logic. It's logical that it's in the interest that as many people as possible stay in the world of work, not to increase at the Bureau the number of unemployed and logically that these funds are then trying to finance and this law that we just talked about before this. It is important to stress that this law does not affect the legal security of acquired rights, which means that all persons who have exercised their right for the first seven months of this year, according to the applicable law, continue to benefit from that right. So, you've well noticed that normally until the entry into force of this law all of them will benefit now acquired rights under this law that I was talking about at first. The reduced amount of compensation applies only to workers who will end up at the institution after the amendment of the law, but it is very important to stress with a certain period of application. It's a year or maybe a year and a month, until 31 December 2010. I think it's objective, if we look objectively, if we objectively want to understand the emerging situation that it was the only possible solution and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community club supported this proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38383	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38384	Mr. Kunst, you've just finally said this was the only possible solution. So is that really possible? I mean, I really think this is an incorrect claim that this was the only possible solution in order to go into the job-preservation law at all that it had to be reduced, that tomorrow it would have to cut the fee to future unemployed. If that's exactly what you said, then you just confirmed the government's incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38385	Thank you. And we have on behalf of the HNS Club the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38386	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the proposer. The law we have before us, or the bill of law, is actually a typical example, or at least we can say the paper evidence of a policy that has been going on in the Republic of Croatia for six years, which has come to the brink of endurance. So, first of all, it was a policy to buy social peace or translate into Croatian vote purchases. They were neither employed nor unemployed, but how to Pacifice that large army of people who had lost their basic dignity by losing their jobs. And now the government says that you need to evenly distribute the burden of the crisis and, of course, you will see it later and in the analysis, believe it or not, the category of unemployed people puts the highest level of those who have to bear the burden. The government wants to take the most unemployed. Isn't it paradoxical to say that part of the burden of the economic crisis in Croatia will be placed on the shoulders of those who have already brought this crisis to the very fact that they are unemployed? Well, aren't they the product of that crisis? Let's take it in a row. This problem and the proposed solution can be seen from several different cancers, or in several different contexts. Let's see a little bit of what the government has decided when it comes to austerity measures, how she's making herself a hat. Of all the announcements of painful cuts on the expenditure side of the budget, the Government succeeded in cutting down and saving about 260 million kunas with a colossal 0.21% of total expenditure. So 0.21% of total expenditure will save. It's about 2.5% so-called. budgetary gaps. 7% of the total savings achieved by this law come from the most unprotected category, which are unemployed. 7% of the total savings on this rebalancing will be taken to the unemployed, i.e. to better express myself, 7% of the total savings come from a source intended for the unemployed, and they will suffer much more. At 3 700 and some kuna, 710 falls to 2 150 about. Now let's look further. How will it be cut to bear the burden of the crisis? So-called Protected or parliamentary pensions fall by 10%. Payments, pensions and other gains are taxed by 2 and 4%, and officials lost 10 at first and then 5, now 4%, and the unemployed are left without 42%. So, all those who work, all who have stable sources of income went far better in this government's savings policy than the unemployed who take 42% on average. But there's one more thing. There are also those who win. It's enough to sit in a tractor, you're imaginative enough, you come screaming in front of the Ministry of Agriculture and Op, there it is on the rebalancing of 250 million kuna more for agriculture without problems. And what do we do when the unemployed don't have tractors? Let's simulate what this looks like in the example of the Croatian family. So what would it look like if the Croatian family behaves the way the government behaves. The calculations say that the consumer basket is about 6600 kuna for the four-member family, so 6 thousand 600 kuna. If the budget gap were to be adjusted from the state budget to the family budget, this would mean that the family must save, or burn monthly or cut costs by 660 kuna. So with six thousand 600, they suddenly have to cut for 660 kuna. However, if we were to reflect how the government did it, and the government said it would cover 2.5% of the total budget gap, this would mean that the four-member Croatian family cut the total monthly cost of 16 kuna, which means that one of the other of the 2 children is denied one ice cream per month. That's how the government behaves. That way, no single responsible family would behave. So, the government has literally presented to us a program to save 2 ice creams per month at about 6600 kuna per month. And one more thing. For some time now, employers have been demanding to reduce the working week and the government has agreed to cases when it comes to companies that can prove they are operating with losses in the 2nd half last and in the first half of this year. And then she figured out how to raise the funds for it. So you think it's a coincidence that the Croatian Employment Service is going with the transaction? It is precisely those funds that will be needed to subsidise work week cuts that will be saved by this law and yet add to that 32 million kuna that the Croatian Employment Office has on the disposition this year to encourage employment, and has not spent practically any single June. And you'll get what you need to enforce this law. That's what this is about. To be poured from hollow to empty. So, the unemployed co-finance virtually those who will stay working, but they will be reduced, or cut the working week. It's the height of this government's policy. And worst of all, this linguistic equilibristic that's got something rotten, but completely rotten trying to wrap it up so it doesn't see what it's all about is just amazing. If the Oscars were assigned annually for the most banalized message wrapped in the most complicated formulations, gentlemen you would get this year not one, but 3. Mrs. Sobol started, but she didn't finish. I'm asking you nicely, put all your brain swings on the line and tell me what this sentence means. In this respect, the calculations relating to the risks of social sustainability, and in view of the preservation of fiscally sustainable existential and socially acceptable minimum, the maximum amount of cash compensation is linked to the movement of the minimum wage prescribed that reflects the currently stated socially acceptable and fiscally sustainable standard. So are there greater horrors and horrors in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia? Well, God's people. So who's being insulted here? What does a fiscally sustainable standard mean? How can the standard be fiscally sustainable? Well, the standard is a variable category as well as a fiscous, but a fiscous as much as you have a standard must be. What kind of game is this? So who are they mocking? Or us or the unemployed or the ones who'll be cut short for a week's work? I think it could have been smarter, that it could have been different. And I have to say on behalf of the HNS Club, we're saddened by these government moves. They testify to the ingenuity, they testify to that insecure I spoke of yesterday. At the time of your time in Dalmatia, if you came to the butcher's shop, they'd cut off your joint, because you couldn't buy a kilo of meat if you didn't get a little bone. Now, that's exactly the case here. So the juniper's hitting on each other. And people who have lost their jobs and for the past 12 months know best what the hypocrisy of this law means. And to those who are just about to become unemployed, who will be the direct product of this crisis, we're going to say we're going to take a little bit of a week off from work. We cut, we cut, we cut, we cancel, and how long are we gonna cut short, and what's left for us, are we gonna have anything more to extend after this government? The HNS club will not support this law and is looking forward to the day when this country will be led by a more competent government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38387	Thank you. Al bute still had to wait. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague when they spoke on behalf of the club, very detailedly describing what this law is about. So at the time we passed last year, the Employment Intermediation and Rights Act during unemployment was a real fee during unemployment to tie it to the calculation, to the average salary of the last year. So, we've already heard, for the first 3 months, the compensation was 70%, for the remaining time to one year 50%, and the permanent fee was 40% of the average salary in the last year. The promoter is now proposing that the unemployment fee be paid for the first 3 months of 100% of the minimum wage, for the remaining time to one year at 80% and for the permanent fee to be paid at 60% of the minimum wage. I can say for a while that I am glad that this is a short-term measure and that it will last until the end of 2010, so those who will be left without a job will not be permanently affected as is said by such low fees, although we heard here from Mr Kunst's exposure, they are significantly, significantly larger than they were, therefore, with this reduction significantly greater than they were several years ago. It was realistic to expect the fees in the past year to increase and, given that the number of employees, the number of unemployed fell, however, as I have already said because of this crisis, the number of unemployed is growing and I just kind of think that these funds that will be aimed at supporting job conservation will preserve jobs and will meet their goal, and that the Croatian Employment Office will be registered as few unemployed as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38389	Thank you. It's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38390	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I have a few questions that don't apply so much to the very text of the law, but to the accompanying argument. I really admire this acrobatic data and reasoning that the law in question is being followed. In one part of the argument, you state that according to the current Article 43 of the Law, the compensation for the first 90 days amounts to a maximum of 70%, then 50%, and 40% of the amount of the average net salary paid in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. How much is that in kunas? Is it possible that in the ministry that wrote this bill, they do not know how many days this bill's reasoning was due? What's the 70% average? Three thousand six hundred Isn't that right? That 50% is 2 thousand 589. And this 40% 2 grand 71. Why didn't you write kunas instead of percentages? To make it harder for us to read the law and calculate how much compensation will now be lower. How much will the fees be now? Is it possible to convert this formulation referred to in Article 43a into a justification, so this statement that for the first 90 days of use cannot be more than the minimum wage reduced for contributions to compulsory insurance laid down by special rules in kuna? How much minimum wage is reduced for mandatory contributions? The minimum wage is determined in gross amount, 2 thousand 814 kuna. Does that mean that now the maximum fee will be, how much? How is it that you have not given an overview of the current amounts, limited fees, and how much, according to this proposal, of the law? We first have the net base of the average salary, now it goes to a limit related to the minimum wage that's in the gross, and then it's still reduced to paid mandatory contributions. It's not data that's being published, it's calculating. Furthermore, in your explanation, there were 22.4% more cash compensation users in June than in June of last year. How much did she receive in June this year, and how much in June last year? Couldn't you have written that last year's fee was 52,062 thousand, and in June of this year, 63,000 743 beneficiaries of the fee? What was the problem here to show that 10, 11 thousand unemployed people were more entitled to the stock exchange this year than they were last year? Again in order to make it harder to monitor the effects of the law. So I kindly ask that in the future of these percentages, this argument that says nothing, but hides more than reveals, in the future give in amounts and figures. If you want our support in lawmaking, if you want us to understand correctly and to interpret to the citizens what changes are being made in the law. And I really can't understand that for some material rights of citizens you give a basis that is calculated, not fixed published. Minimum salary reduced for paid contributions. So can I please tell you what that amount is today? Minimum salary reduced for compulsory contributions. How much does it amount to in kunas? Why? Because unions have been strained for a month on how much the minimum wage is due under the Minimum Payment Act. Because each in its own way interprets the formula of the law. Although Madam Secretary of State Vera Babic has read three times about this speaker on my express request and said it will be used to publish data on the lowest salary of 2 000 814, nearly 250,300 kuna is disputed. And for this reason, I insist that instead of this papazian expression, the minimum wage of the reduction for mandatory contributions is a great amount. To write it down so no other amount would be announced tomorrow. At least that. I have calculated that the maximum fee in this law compared to so far will be less by a thousand 516 kuna per month. A thousand 516 smaller, lower than it's ever been before. I may have made a mistake, but it's hard to calculate when you're not giving us data that's readable, understandable, clear, but first percentages like this, percentages like that, all in order to make it difficult for us to argue. That's what it's all about. And I'm done with the next one. 4 years ago, for the first time, 3 years ago, we tried to convince the government's representatives in this House that the management of the unemployment policy as we do in Croatia is not good. And that if we want to help Croatian unemployed citizens, we really need to see the possibility of Croatia inventing or designing its flexicurity programme. Of course not. If this topic was unknown in Croatia because of the lack of literature, here I recommend an extremely serious textbook on the subject, the book, translated. The original name is Flex Security. And as evidence of that or against those who say that only the growth of gross social product and the development of the economy unemployed have a chance to get a job, only three interesting data. In Albania, GDP growth is 5.8% and employment is 2.65%. In the Czech Republic, GDP growth is 3.1% and employment declines 0.24%. In Estonia, GDP growth was as much as 7.2%, and employment grew only 0.58. And now I'm not strangling you with these data that actually prove that the movement, growth or decline of the gross social product, but in the context of the decline or growth of the number of employees never has to mean. I want to believe that because of this crisis and the understanding of the fact that the number of unemployed in Croatia is growing without great indication that there is a more favourable situation soon, you will receive this expert debate on employment policy and the flexicurity model as at least one of the possible anti-recession measures in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38391	Thank you. And now it's the honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38392	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The government assures us, on a daily basis, through these anti-recession laws that we are discussing that through them has not touched those most vulnerable, or most sensitive, and here in this legislative proposal that we are now talking about, the fee for the unemployed is reduced. Aren't those who lose their jobs the most vulnerable and sensitive? It's about people who literally lost their means of existence overnight. What does the government argue with the need to pass this law? What is an alibi for this truly unacceptable measure this time? The government's reason is a huge increase in the number of beneficiaries of the cash compensation during unemployment and a great financial pressure on the budget from the payment of cash fees. The truth is, there are hundreds of people out of work in Croatia a day. Here's some data. In June 2009, compared to the same month last year, the number of unemployment benefits was increased by 22.4%. In the period January-June of this year, the number of registered unemployed was increased by 5% compared to the same period in 2008. So the word is approximately 12.5 thousand of these people, with 50% of them, is very important data, so each other reported came directly from work, more specifically from a broken working relationship. One more piece of information. In May of this year, the registered unemployment rate in Croatia was 14.4%. But what is most intriguing in this story of Croatian unemployment is that the government has repeatedly claimed that this kind of growth in unemployment is the only consequence of the global crisis that has spread to the real sector in Croatia, and then to the Croatian labour market. That's just not true. This is only a small part of the impact of the global crisis. To a far greater extent, this is the consequence of the current government's policy, which has been ignoring the economy for 15 years and supporting the social system. So jobs disappeared, and society was created depending on state mangers. The current government boasts on every occasion that a growing part of the state budget is leaving on the social side. Last night, when I was discussing the VAT bill proposal, I said it was absolutely not a fact to be boasted about. It's a fact that causes concern and it's a fact of regret. This just confirms that it did not invest in new jobs but was spent on social services. It is a dramatic fact that in Croatia we have only 45% of the working population and this is one of the lowest rates in Europe and at the same time a huge number of Croatian citizens live on one form of social assistance. And the state has taken over the role of redistributors of newly created value and, in return, it has obtained political clientele and faithful voters, and has persistently promoted solidarity in poverty while the elite is spared all the troubles. Of course, once it had to be that the economy could no longer bear this great burden of social giving. However, the unemployed are certainly not the social group, the group of Croatian citizens where everything should be broken. This law, which is before us, is a limited period of time, so it is projected to last until the end of 2010. The proposed reduction in unemployment benefits would save around 45 million kuna, 15 million by the end of 2009 and 30 million in 2010. However, this is too little savings for the state budget, so these 45 million but much more resources could be gained, for example, by taxing the property of Croatian hidden rich people. On the other hand, the unemployment rate will be a real shortfall. This more fee team, therefore the highest unemployment fee is limited to the minimum wage and the minimum wage when we talk about that absolute amount is determined in a sum less than we expected. I guess we didn't get the minimum wage bill right. Unlike the current government, in the early spring, at a time when the rulings had actually ignored the fact that the crisis existed in Croatia, so already through the amendments to the Employment Intermediation Act, we proposed an extension of the time in which unemployment compensation would be received, in order to facilitate the situation of the group of Croatian citizens, therefore unemployed. Of course, like everyone else, that law had the same fate. So there was no understanding for him and it was given to say at a time when perhaps even more could be done, in any case more than now after six months and now the law is now proposed with completely opposite effects, so going to cut unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38393	Thank you. And distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38394	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to report under this point because we agreed that my colleague Beus would present our club's position. At 3:00 and 20 minutes, however, a man from Slavonia called me and begged me to answer and pass on what he wants to order to the Croatian Parliament in connection with this point. It is about a man who is a Colonel of the Croatian Army, who is 90% disabled and first told me about the difficult state in Slavonia regarding unemployment, that the unemployment rate is growing from day to day. He informed me that soon at several large companies in Slavonia, people are going on collective vacations and the solution says until further notice. We all know what that means. And he told me also to the representatives of the government and the parliamentary representatives that I as a Croatian soldier in 91, 92, at no time doubted the victory, 91, 92, at no time did we lose hope even though people died from both left and right but he says right now I must say he says with only four words I can describe the situation in my Slavonia. It says fear, uncertainty, indifference, hopelessness. So I've never seen so many depressed people around me in my life. That's his message to all of us. I asked you Mr. Secretary of State at the previous point about the measures for a solution to the crisis. I asked you four questions, you didn't answer any of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38395	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Miljenko Pavlakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38396	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'll briefly try to sum up the answers to what you're asking. I think it's here I'll try to make an important point. Average fee received by persons unemployed through the Croatian Employment Service is a thousand 600 benefits. It is an average fee which is now paid according to the Croatian Employment Service records. In my initial explanation, I think I clearly read that in the first three months it means 100% of the minimum wage of 2 thousand 251 kuna and 20 limes, the remaining time up to a year 80% or a thousand 801 kuna and the duration of the employment or pension of 60% or a thousand 350 kuna and 72 June. That's what I said in an explanation. Why isn't it in the text? For the reason that this temporary measure includes both 2009 and 2010 and the minimum wage will come clearly in the correction in 2010 and it went with the minimum wage statement to the Croatian Statistics Institute that they will also confirm and the percentages and deadlines of the duration will clearly remain the same. I repeat, as regards the funding measures clearly, that in the framework of the budget, the overall budget of the Republic of Croatia, when it is seen there that savings were made and the funds were raised, we cannot speak parallelly to be taken from one position and given directly to another position. For you have seen in earlier debates, I will not enter into it now, and in the budget everything has taken place, and to what is added, and to this extent according to this law. Here we should stress that those with average income through the Employment Office of 1600 kuna will not be covered drastically by these changes, given that they are within the framework. We are talking here about the maximum amount, not the average, not the minimum, but the maximum amount, so that those most sensitive social vulnerable groups are still protected by this law. I note again why perhaps not earlier, certainly because I had already said that according to all the records that were kept from 2004 to 2008 we did not have a decline in unemployment in 2008 that... The average unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia was at the level in the Eurozone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's enough for us all to know why not before. Now that we've come to grips with all the preparations that the government has done, here's another appeal to the adoption of this law, and I am convinced that most MPs will have the understanding that we are still protecting social groups and that the law will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38397	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38398	Fifthly, the Final Proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 419. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Employment and Rights Law during unemployment. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? The bill was adopted by most votes, 82 votes in favour, nothing abstentions and 25 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38399	We're moving to 9. Proposal for a law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 421 The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Mladneo, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38400	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The final proposal for a law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks is before us. What is being regulated by the final draft of the law? the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks shall be introduced and arranged. What's the object of paying the fee? is the subject of a short text message service, meaning those SMS messages, image transfer services, speech and sound messages and voice service. The payment obligation is an infrastructure operator providing services to mobile electronic communications networks. The amount of compensation is proposed in the amount of 6% of the base of the pyrod which operators perform on these provided services. The accounting period for determining the fee shall be the calendar month. The obligation to pay compensation in the state budget is up to 15 days in the current month for the previous month. The payer shall submit a monthly report on the services provided to the competent authority of the tax administration according to its seat. The report shall be submitted by 15 days of the current month for the previous month. It is proposed that the law enter into force from 1 August 2009. Reasons for the adoption of the proposed law. In recent years, the market for electronic communications networks and services has developed significantly and there has been a significant increase in the number of users. Total revenue from the activities of electronic communications has also increased significantly. A significant fiscal impact that will not negatively affect the growth and development of the electronic communications networks and services market would be around 143 million kuna by the end of the year. Otherwise, an annual increase in revenue based on this would be around 430 million kuna. The proposed law constitutes another measure affecting the increase in the revenues of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38401	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38402	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. As the Secretary of State has said, this bill introduces compensation for providing services in mobile electronic communications networks of up to 6%, and thus foresees increasing national income at an annual level at about 430 million kuna per year. And these days we really listened to these legal proposals and this budget rebalance on various cuts, wage cuts, pension cuts, tax hikes. I think this is one of those bill proposals that, let's put it this way, should do the least damage to each one of us's standards. Of course, it is good that it can be telephoned all day and every day and that it is as cheap as possible, but still here, according to this data for last year that we also recently had in the report of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, we saw that the data is saying that it is a little bit exaggerated. But that's good if you can, too, if it doesn't cost a lot. So, the fact is that certain restrictions have to be introduced and now they've come to the order of use of mobile phones that relate, of course, both to text and image and voice use of cell phones. I said from a recent report by the Croatian Post and Telecommunications Agency, and by the way, we learn from the data that 3 billion and 800 million messages were sent over the past year in one year, that 7.5 billion minutes were held. And most interestingly, we have about 4 million, 4.5 million, 4 million and 400 thousand inhabitants, and we have active numbers of 5 million and 900 thousand. So we have more cell numbers than we have residents. I say again, everything is good when you can and when you have it, but this isn't really real and it's my guess that a lot of families are counting cell phones all, all the cell phones in the house that they use to pay more for cell phones, or bills than electricity, for electricity, and that's where I turn myself on. We spend more on phones than on electricity, which isn't exactly rational behavior. And so I think on behalf of the HDZ Club that this tax, this consumption supplement, I would say, may be the mildest of all of these, perhaps even lighter from today on those luxury yachts, luxury cars. And for these reasons, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38403	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38404	Dear Vice President, I promised, I'll be very brief. The telecommunications sector and the bill. The highest average salary is over 12,000 kuna. Get at the level of billions. The vindication of this introduction has a foothold. It's a moment of guilt. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of And who's gonna pay? Citizens. Given the economic situation, this is how this tax before Croatia was introduced by Serbia and that is all that can be said at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38405	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38406	Your Honor, Mr. President. It is hard to actually be very eloquent when it comes to a Serbian-Croatian law. It's only a matter of days before we have to pay taxes and e-mail. So, what's being ordered? First of all, we do more, we talk less, we don't buy 2 phones, but 1, if we have one to deprive him too, because here we are, the government measured us that we sent four billion almost text messages. There's an expert who's going to say, listen, it's an alliance in action, so don't be so people, come on, talk to each other, don't send messages, you'll alienate yourself, you don't know what you look like. And maybe that's actually the backdrop of this bill, that actually people hang out a little bit more, and a little less to send messages, but if it starts, if that's the trend, then who knows where we're going to stop, is it, so it's probably gonna be stimulated to talk less on a fixed phone, so we're going to watch less television, probably, probably now we're going to start measuring how many hours we're watching TV, so even here when you cut 3%, it's going to fail. 6 channels 2%, 14 channels 4%. So, it measures us, everything measures us, and everything is declared a luxury. Obviously, we can't avoid it. It's said to be paid by operators, I guess, from profit. Of course not. While the whole of Europe is trying to lower the price of mobile phone services in all possible ways, we say it's not good, let's increase it because if we thought and thought that the owners of the mobile phone operator would agree to lose one single lip projected profit, then we got ugly, uglyly fooled. Do you think that such a powerful lobby, so simply, easily, without resistance, would have agreed to this law if it hadn't already made the oatmeal that, in fact, these 6% would have spilled on the burden of the user? Of course. But when we talk about taxing capital gains, taxing dividend extraction, then there's no government hearing about it. And these are places where you should wait for extra money. Not where a new value is created, but where it is trying to spend, not reinvest. But that's something that, I'm sorry, sees me fellow Maric with sad eyes. I won't talk just for him anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38407	Thank you. It's good to bring a little spirit into the debate. That concludes this part of the debate. The proposer has nothing more to say. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38408	Sixth, Final Proposal for a Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 420. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by most votes, 95 votes for, 4 abstentions and 5 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38409	We're going to point 10. Otherwise, I'll tell the MPs and the MPs. Today we're gonna do these two points and then we're gonna break up and we're gonna continue tomorrow morning, we're gonna vote all these points that we've voted on, and then Friday we're just gonna vote the budget and discuss tomorrow this 12th point, and that's what boom announces at the end. Point 10, point 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions, with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 421 The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Mladneo, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38410	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The proposal of the Law amending the Law on Contributions we are going with the proposal that the monthly basis prescribed for the Law on the Rights of Independent Artists and potential cultural art creations paid for independent artists on the basis of the coefficient prescribed on the basis of the average salary, gross salary 1.8 of the previous year and in this year 2009 is the basis of 8 thousand 952 kuna, and the coefficient is 1.2. On the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Culture which provides these funds in its budget, it is proposed to reduce the coefficient from 1.2 to 0.8. This would be savings in the budget by 2 million and 775 thousand, and during the month the total reduction would be 16 million and 652 thousand kuna. There you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38411	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richemberg, on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38412	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm not looking at my colleague Maric right now. We have a proposal that deserves a lot more attention than we're really going to give him. If you have listened carefully to the secretary of state, it is that they are cut down no less than one third for free artists. Now who are the free artists? If we opt out, maybe 10, 15 people who don't belong there, and these are the ones who take 80, 90,000 euros for the New Year's concert, and are paid out of the state budget as free artists. So there's very few of them, then it's the sea. I'm not talking about an absolute number, but it's actually one mass of people living on the edge of an existential minimum. They're actors who don't have a permanent engagement in theaters. They're dancers, music artists, so they're painters. These are people who have been placed on the market in a sector where there is not so much work and in which demand does not grow, but in times of crisis is falling seriously. These are people who can and are happy if they get a fee of 500, 600, 800 kuna, unlike some who would want to go to Skabrnje for 25 thousand euros. They don't have that kind of luck. They have no luck singing and dancing at Stradun for the new year and incasing 90,000 euros. Not in any other cities. They just don't have that kind of luck. And among those who are lucky, there's a lot of so-called. Free artists, and woe to them when this reduction is applied to them. How hard it's gonna hit them. But because of them, should all these others be put at risk? And among them are many who, without whom Croatian culture would not be what it is. There are many who have celebrated Croatia and the Croatian name many times because of their work, but have not been fortunate enough to be in a permanent ensemble, to be celebrated as artists of a commercial type, conditionally said, or people who are doing well in the art market or simply in the years when competition pushes them out of the first, second and third plans. Here's to it, one-third of what stands out is that tomorrow when they retire they're not hungry bread will shrink. And that ultimately means he'll have fewer pensions. Well, I wouldn't want any of us to share those pensions that these people get. These are terribly small pensions. After 40 years of artistic life and work, they come in a position to barely make ends meet. And they got that status precisely because the social community estimated that they were unable to provide themselves with the means of life on the market, but what they create and what they transfer to us in spiritual wealth has value and is worth preserving. Let's think carefully about whether this 2 million kuna per year really cost this country a year to get out of the crisis? I'm surprised the Ministry of Culture cares about this proposal. It would be normal for the Ministry of Finance to ask, because it's not their thing, they don't have to understand it, but if the Ministry of Culture were looking for something like this, that's what surprises me. A little bit of grief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38413	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'd like to see if my colleague Beus will be looking down on me sadly or cheerfully. I do not want to reduce the contribution of free artists in Croatia. Maybe there's one too many on that list of a thousand 310 I think. But the situation that led to journalists flying us today because we can no longer drink water, neither honor a guest, nor get coffee in the Croatian Parliament as representatives. Here I am as chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I'm not suing. I'm just saying, I don't even have an official cell phone. I don't have any kunas for the team. Because our pay cuts are 10, then 5, then 4%, 19%. And let the situation be that way, we all have to suffer. From this all that my colleague Beus has been saying, there can be a lot of justification for such an act, and I find it as well. But the impression can be gained as if the state is taking something away from free artists, as if it's cutting their wages. It's not the state giving it to them, and now it's in a situation where it can't stand out that much, but it's giving out a little less. The state has been paying contributions to them for years, and this contribution, mandatory contributions, has allocated 1.2 to the average salary, and now because of this situation, and why the Ministry of Culture? Because the expenditure on the expenditure of the Ministry of Culture fell in the assessment of the items to be saved. It also suggested a reduction in that item to do a multiple of 0.8 and thus to come up with a monthly savings of millions of 387 thousand or 16 million a year and some kuna. He's not taking away anything from them, he's giving them less because of this situation. And if it's a better situation, and I believe it will, I guess we'll be able to have a glass of water here, have a cup of coffee one day, and then return the contributions to these thousands and 300 free artists who might someday be crystallized and be a dozen less. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38415	Thank you. And now there's an individual debate coming up. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38416	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I have a few questions. First, in the light of the law, when the law on the rights of independent artists is cited and the promotion of cultural and artistic creation, you state "The People's Newspaper" No 43/96, 44/96. And 127/00. Since 2000. I have to tell you that in the number of People's Newspapers, 127/00. There's nothing published called the Law on the Rights of Independent Artists. It is in these "National Journals" that are published, that is, the Income Tax Act, which once put three articles of this law out of force. So in the future, please, when you present a bill in the House, specify exactly which legal acts you are referring to in writing a new bill. So the Income Tax Act was supposed to be written "The People's Newspaper" 127/00. It's because of a fair and correct relationship with us agents. Because some of us are going to read these laws about what they looked like before than you're proposing to change them. That's the first one. Second. It is explained that the burden of the state budget is paid to contribute to a thousand 310 independent artists. A thousand three hundred and I've been looking for all the changes and additions since '96. Furthermore, I came to the 2004 Regulation on procedures and conditions, and I must admit that I was surprised by the two facts. First, it is the only criterion according to which a person acquires the right to make contributions to the State. And now I ask you if I'm wrong, so I'll read, "It will be considered to be a work of artistic creation and the work of independent artists, only a major interest in the last three years if the average total annual income outside of artistic creation and actions for the previous three years is not achieved." First in three years and in the previous three years "more than the average income of workers in the Republic of Croatia for the previous year". Does that mean the average salary of a worker? What does the term average income of workers mean? That's what I have to admit to you by now, that value, that size I've never found anywhere before. Average income of workers in the Republic of Croatia. If this is an average salary, this means that all those free artists who earn less than the average wage of workers have the right to contribute to them by the state. But when? For the past three years, for the past three years. I do this Article 8 if I had to apply it, believe me, I don't know how to interpret it. So consider, Mr. Secretary of State, that the time has come for this rule to be taken seriously. Especially because of such concepts that no longer exist in Croatia. There is a gross salary, according to all regulations, and the net salary is a statistical calculation, not official data. Furthermore, on the idea of an independent artist and the desire of the state to encourage cultural and artistic creation, many of them on the Internet suggested that they were the present and future Krleže, Meštovici. However, there is, among other things, an item of 5. music creation, and classical music composers, and then the composers of fun music come. Then publishers, performers are fun, pop, rock and folk music. Therefore, singers of folk music have the right to be paid by the state for their contributions. On what terms? That there are at least 200 minutes of artists of relevant newly recorded music performed at the concert or on radio and television. Or if they've been playing music for more than 20 years and they're doing it with relevant music. I don't mind and it's good for the state to protect cultural workers, especially because they're forced to be on the market. But I'd like you to publish a list of those thousands of 310. Citizens of this country who exercise such significant rights on the burden of the budget and to the total amount is about 50 million kuna. ... I'll wait for my colleague Cain to take care of his notes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, I believe that the state must publish and make publicly available information that is citizens who are making such significant funds on the burden of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38417	I'm sorry, Your Honor, Mr. Lesar. Dear Representative Cain, I do not accept this as an application because this is not worthy of the Croatian Parliament or of the parliamentary representative. Here you go. Don't be mad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38418	So, I think the state has a duty. ... Is this sparring nerving in the Assembly? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, the state has an obligation to make publicly available a list of those who cost 50 million kuna annually. I wouldn't be surprised if they were on that list. ... I'm waiting for this crowd to calm down around the secretary of state. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Bagaric! Thank you, colleague Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38419	Please, you continue the debate because you too are walking in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38420	I'm speaking to the Secretary of State. So I wouldn't be surprised if they were on that list of artists of folk and entertainment music, say Thompson. ... I don't know. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why would I have to trust someone until the official data is published? Or that there are some teats on that list, as they say, that can't be performed in public. So we have the right to know the names of a thousand 310 users of 50 million kuna on the burden of taxpayers. On the website of the Ministry of Culture, please choose to publish this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38421	Thank you. Now it's the honorable representative Damir Caine's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38422	I'm sorry. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, Thompson allegedly is one of them, of those thousands of 310 users of these rights. The man sings at a concert for 25, 30, 50 thousand euros, buys a Penthouse in Zagreb for 10 million kuna, is co-owner if I am not mistaken for Croatia Records or something, the Huška Croat on Croats, extends interethnic impatience and is on the payroll as a worthy artist, I suppose, due to the propagation of the constitution. Indeed, such individuals need to be told a lot in this country, and we really need to ask ourselves how many individuals will perform in this way. A man like him who says the president of the state is a traitor cannot be on that list. Easy for Caine, but a country whose president is a high traitor is funded by a Thompson. What makes him a patriot and why should I be a traitor in this country? He's a patriot because he's standing up to God and I'm talking about that period with disgust. If someone in one Germany were to welcome "Dear Gentlemen Representatives" with "Sieg Hail!" as he openly defies the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia and welcomes "To Home!" He'd be in jail right now. If someone in one Germany sang in Auschwitz and Gradička Stari or this Mauthausen or Dachau as he did in Croatia, he would immediately end up in a mental institution. If someone in one of Germany were photographed under... [[The speaker is not understood because of the speaker's speech.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38423	Dear Representative Cain, the final draft law amending the Law on Contributions is on the agenda. And please talk about the subject. We're not talking about the list, we're talking about the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38424	No, I'm talking about the subject. ... The Croatian state allows. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'm talking about the Law amending the Law on Contributions. I'm talking about individuals who abuse that bill. I'm talking about individuals who, in this way, I deeply dare say insults to the citizens of Croatia. This noise that can be brought together by the truth is 10, 20 thousand people should be told that there is no impunity in this country. The police department down in that Biograd claimed there were no criminal elements for his responsibility. I don't think these individuals belong in the service. And in Istria, they were also Scanning, "Kill, kill Cain!" So then the police said it wasn't said at the concert that he was responsible for, but it was run a few minutes before he showed up for the concert. That's, say, the Croatian police. It can only be done in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38425	Honorable representative, stick to the subject, not the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38426	This can only be done in Croatia provided that the ruling majority allows it. Which can be orthodox. ... What's going on over there? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. What's going on in this country? In this country, these individuals are really pushing the Croats against the Croats. We're out of Serbs, they're gone, the Bosniaks are as miserable as we are, the Slovenians are saving our season. What do we do? But we should simply push the citizens of Croatia at the time of this crisis... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38427	Dear Representative Cain, don't stick to the subject. I remind you one last time, I'll take your word for it if you don't stick to the subject. Don't do this, please. Stick to the subject. You're a smart man, a candidate for president of the state, and you stick to the subject. Respect the regulations we have brought ourselves, and that is the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38428	Yes, I am sticking to the subject, warning what is happening on the political stage of the Republic of Croatia, where these noisers can push us and who in this country does not respect the Constitution and the legal order. Finally, I would also ask the question when we are already talking about respecting the legal rules, for example. should be more legalist than I, which is why he should fight for the rule of law if he denies that one Republic of Croatia was created among other things by the merit of the anti-fascist movement. Because if it were never one Istria, one River, one Zadar would not be in the Republic of Croatia today. Which makes him more of a patriot than Damir Cain, if, as some say, he deserted in '91. from the Croatian Army? I think I had needs, among other things, to say this, as I will say exactly between myself and the press conferences, as I am prepared today or tomorrow to say that IDS is willing to give up those 10% for party financing, but not on condition that Jadranka Kosor and HDZ schedule these 10. If we can schedule those 10% for the operation of the General Hospital or for any other project in Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, then there's no problem. But I don't think Mrs. Kosor or HDZ can take that money away from us. In one word, gentlemen, this law is at least delicate if individuals like Thompson compromise it in such a harsh way. Understandably, this is not an accidental, understandable expression of the political will of the majority in this House or Government, but the majority will not be at the head of this country forever. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38429	You called in a replica too late. He's done already. ... Let's go first to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Agent Cain has injured Article 210. The Rules of Procedure, but now that doesn't make any sense, because he's mistreated us already by saying ten minutes completely past the agenda point. You should have taken his word from him a long time ago, but it's obviously the most powerful representative because no one can do anything to him, and besides missing the topic he's told a series of inaccuracies about who's on the pay list.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38431	Dear Representative, I have acted on the Rules of Procedure, and you have not stated at all which article...... So... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please. You spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38432	Mr. Vice President, Article 210. Rules of Procedure, I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38433	You spoke. You spoke. I acted on the Rules of Procedure, and I warned a respected representative who was correct, and I warned him that I would take away his word if it continued. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure are respectful and I, as chairman, respected him. We have a correction of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would never go into it as anyone prepares for the debate, but given the incorrect allegations made by counterpart Cain that Marko Perkovic Thompson is on the list of independent artists to whom the state pays contributions. That's not true, because if he had prepared himself a little then he could and he could see it wasn't, but apparently, he probably knew, but he deliberately abused this position a little bit now. No, it's not on the list and whoever wants to check if there's any preparation for this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38435	At this point, I spoke with Minister Bishop and the distinguished artist you mention here is not on that list at the Ministry of Culture. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on with the corrections of incorrect allegations. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go. ... You can't fix it. It's just an explanation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38436	Well, you said a respected artist. What makes a respected artist call a president of the state a traitor?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38437	Please! I take your word you're still talking about this subject! Here you are, correcting the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38438	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maric has already corrected it. Of course this was the best stage when Mark Perkovic Thompson's name is mentioned. So, dear colleague Cain, the Ministry of Culture doesn't need to publish a list, but the names, or lists of all artists, are on the sites of the Association of Independent Artists, at the same time verifiable, so I think you can take a look. And there's something else I want to make up for. So, the Croatian Democratic Community doesn't allocate 10% of the funds to anyone, obviously most likes political parties, as the people say when they're hit in the pocket. So the party president recommended to the other parties that 10% if they could give up...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38439	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38440	And if you don't, there's a right to deploy your resources...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38441	Thank you! That no longer falls under the correcting of an incorrect quote! Please, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. It's for everyone, really for everyone. Correction of the incorrect quote, Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Maric, corrected an incorrect assumption that I wanted to correct. All I have left is to find regrets that he prejudges here and invents who is all on the list of those protected, those financed by the Croatian state, without respecting the rules of this country and that he does not know that the Croatian state is acting in accordance with the laws, even if it has financed those who are not on Bleiburg by the Ustasha party and they never apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38443	Thank you. Dear Representative Furio Radin Okay, thank you very much. [[I'm giving up.]] However, I would really like to ask the MPs, and especially you, honourable representative, and I say to everyone of you, don't go with such debates in the Assembly with unverified facts and base your debate on that. You are still a candidate for the President of the Republic. Take care of that, too. Thank you very much. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38444	Seven, Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions. Emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 421. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Contributions. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 81 votes for, 25 abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38445	We're going to the 11th point of the agenda, 11. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on compulsory health insurance, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 422 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Drazen Jurkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38446	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. Therefore, the proposal to amend and supplement this law redefine the level of separation of compulsory insurance from car liability that insurance companies are obliged to allocate to the state budget in the name of compulsory health insurance of 10%. In fact, by projectioning the Ministry of Health over the past six months, we have seen that the revenues on behalf of compulsory insurance are from car liability 2.5 billion kuna, which would mean that the current level of separation of 10% would be somewhere at 250 million kuna, and the costs of direct and indirect treatment from the consequences of accidents are somewhere around 180 million kuna. So by proposing this law, we're reducing the separation rate from 7 to 10%. The second amendment to this part of the law is that insurance companies are obliged to pay the same premium by the 10th of the month. This has not been defined by the current law and out of 17 companies registered for insurance against auto responsibility, only 4 regularly paid this premium, while 3 companies paid in part, and 7 did not. So, of the 85 million kunas that we were supposed to make to 30.6. on behalf of this law, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia was revenueing from 40 million kuna, so 85 million kuna on behalf of this law was not incometed, so we improved the payment mechanism for this premium. We also provided for sanctions, both for insurance companies and for responsible persons in insurance companies and sanctions are provided for from 500 thousand to million kuna, unless the deadlines for payment of this premium for insurance companies are respected and 30 to 50 thousand kuna for responsible persons. In addition, this law provides that the medical committee of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is to be replaced by authorised doctors, or controllers all for the purpose of direct, better and more correct contact with our insurance companies and patients. This law also ensures the payment of health services in full for healthcare in connection with medically assisted fertilisation, ensuring the payment of health services in full for the overall treatment of chronic psychiatric patients and the payment of health services in full for primary laboratory diagnostics. Also, one important change is that for the purpose of carrying out information in health care, and you know that the project of the Ministry of Health is under way, so the information of primary health care in the amount of 55 million kuna, where, in the course of or within a year, we should receive primary health care, or we call the project a doctor without paper, so we should have primary health care without instructions, without prescriptions and without medical records. Therefore, the necessary prerequisite is to change the health card or introduce a smart card where all the data on the patient will be on the health card. This change will cost the Croatian Health Insurance Institute 80 million kuna and given the situation, given that we have rebalanced nearly 3 billion, the Ministry of Health suggests that participation and the level of participation from our insurance companies should be introduced for the introduction of this new card. I'm thanking you. That'll be all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38447	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? Health care and welfare? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38448	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal for these amendments and additions to the law, and otherwise there have been a lot of speeches in this House of Health and Health needs. If we only remember December last year, then it's clear. Health care and health needs were indeed a lot of speeches, but in any case regardless of the debate, it remains a fundamental objective, and this is the first financial consolidation of the health system, and the second is to ensure a high level of availability and quality of the health system, so please be said that availability and quality to the World Health Organization standards in our country is a high 33rd place. So if we're monitoring these days that in America here's where we're looking, all 47 million people have medically unsecured people, that's enough to say for themselves. So it may well be necessary to recall a little of the extent of the rights that we have in our mandatory health insurance. It's the first right to health care and secondly, the right to cash benefits. In this right to health care, means the right to primary health care, hospital health care, emergency medical care, right to orthopaedic aids, dentistry, a little repeat, dental aids, therefore, the protection of women and pregnant women, haemodialysis and many others. I especially think of the home him who has been kind of unfairly neglected, I would say lately because it certainly improves the quality of life of the insurance company, but it also reduces the cost of health care. Well, here it is used, of course, in immobilized patients, chronic patients in the exacerbation phase, after surgery and in the terminal phase, very important for the improvement of health care, and I think it contributes to that part. But of course this high range also has its cost price, so here it is necessary to secure the funds, and it is also good to repeat that the income of compulsory health insurance is the contributions of the insurance company, the contributions of the employer, the contributions of the unemployed, the contributions of other payers, the contributions established by this and other law, the specific contribution to the use of health care abroad, the revenues from the state budget, the revenues from participation in the health care costs of the insured persons, the income from dividends, interest, etc. of total income, but also this tenth which is exactly the subject of change. So he's income from compulsory insurance against the auto responsibility Mr. Secretary of State was talking about. There is, according to the current 10% law, which, if this car responsibility were to be talked about, 2 and a half billion are collected at year level, 10% would be an extraordinary sum, that's 250 million. Well, it would be good if that were to be realized. But as we've heard from these insurance companies four have only fully executed, 7 in part, 7 nothing, and three in part. So, very little in these circumstances, there was therefore this proposal to go to these 7% which should be by the 10th of the month. This would add up to 218 million, which is why we are guaranteed Article 14 which states criminal provisions to societies and responsible persons who would guarantee us that there is a realisation of these funds. It's definitely an important paper. The second moment we also heard that, with the exercise of the right to health care from the mandatory health insurance of Article 14 that the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance is ensuring the payment of health services in full for healthcare in connection with medical fertilisation. That's the other one. And that third moment we heard the same health card of a secure person, that's the so-called. Smart cards. This is a further follow-up to and informing the health system which will, of course, improve that part, so to speed it up, etc. It will be in one place, and it will lead to the ultimate goal, so a doctor without paper, what the minister spoke of a short time ago. The fourth moment is very important, which is that the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance ensures payment of health services for primary health laboratory diagnostics. A very important moment with regard to availability, namely the large majority of primary healthcare teams have already introduced work in some ways and is taking samples for laboratory diagnostics, but the rule is problems. Of course, the payment of that part, and in that part of the solution will certainly make this moment easier and will certainly further be available because it is very good, I also have personal experience, a very good contribution for these insurance companies. And this one more moment, that fifth, and that's about chronic psychiatric illness. That's what we heard. Unfortunately, in recent times a major problem, the public health problem is chronic psychiatric diseases which, by the way, the biggest spending of hospital days is from psychiatric diseases. There is also a number in primary health care, therefore the increase in these patients who have been due to these needs lately and in that part will certainly help. So all these measures will certainly improve the health system that is here in these activities going forward and I hold that you will all support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38449	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38450	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this law, it is about minor changes and alignment with some laws, including the Medical Aided Fertilisation Act, which we recently had on the agenda. What I just wanted to warn the Secretary of State in Article 2 you mention here in the text of medical insemination. The word "helped" is missing. You probably noticed that, you have to fix it, because if we accept this text, then we made a mistake. There is no medical insemination. Medically assisted insemination should stand. Absolutely. ... It's also in the signature of a medical insemination. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It doesn't exist. And that's what the law's called. Okay, okay. The law is wrongly called coworker, you have to fix it. It's ridiculous. That expression doesn't exist. There is no medical insemination. Is that... Insemination, if it's fertilisation in the test tube, if I don't know what, but medical insemination doesn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So correct it, Mr. Secretary of State as soon as possible in the title of the law itself, if that's unfortunately what it's called. What you haven't explained to us, now we've heard in part from colleagues from the HDZ Club why this is, this is a 10-to-7% separation reduction. That's not very well explained. We heard some of them were, and some of them weren't paying. Does that mean if I don't pay my taxes, you'll cut my taxes? Is it a downfall to violence, disrespecting the law, disrespecting... Laws, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have to explain that to us. That's really the answer, the argument we just heard, we certainly can't be satisfied. What further concerns us a little is the fact that this law has entered this extraordinary session in a package of so-called. Anti-recession laws, so I ask the Secretary of State if you can in any way link this law to the anti-recession measures of the Croatian Government. I'm really asking you to do this, because it's kind of pointless in this way to bring in laws that have nothing to do with why we met at an extraordinary session, with huge problems that we have in Croatian society, that we couldn't wait for a regular session, we really don't understand. I'm saying everything else, we heard the argument, we agree and that these sanctions are bigger, we agree to introduce financial order, we agree with what you said in the opening statement, but give us a few more of these additional arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38451	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38452	Dear Vice President, distinguished secretary, colleague and fellow MPs. I didn't mean to answer this topic, because the National Minority Club will support the law, but there are some misunderstandings here, and just now my colleague Doric has kind of provoked me to ask some questions. It is clear, however, that very often in the adoption of instant laws, that is, we have made a quick mistake, because this law is repeated after 6 months exactly in the area where certain incomes are impossible, where we have not imposed sanctions. But I'm also afraid that the way to define the sanctions that are here and the fines from 500 to millions of kuna will certainly not solve everything. What if it happens again? Or since the fines are less than the amount to pay, we've really imposed penalties here relatively small. I think the punishment should have been brought in for repeaters as well. We very often and very happily close our stores to craftsmen etc. If they don't pay one small amount of tax. Why didn't we go here that if it is repeated that the insurance company does not pay the funds, that the penalties and sanctions are indeed something greater, that is, to predominate and set out to say the threats of carrying out those activities that are if repeated. The second we didn't answer here. It is very clear here that 4 companies paid the 10% neatly, that the three companies paid only partially, i.e. only for the first month, and later they wondered, if they didn't pay those seven why they would pay. What's going to happen to those funds? Will they be required since the law is in place until this change is in effect for 10%. Will they be obliged to pay those 10% or will we simply forgive them? And those who paid, they paid. Thank you. Because they supported the budget. I think it's also supposed to be quite defined here. Very often we miss opportunities to say things to the end. On the other hand, I looked at the explanation, he says, "a review of the resources necessary for the implementation of the proposed law". It is here, as it is explained, that it was done in haste, that it is not governed by facts, because it is said that 200 thousand were to be collected, the rate is to be reduced, but it will be collected more, etc. and there will be no need for additional funds. I ask you to make such mistakes as are coming to the Parliament, regardless of what is not the text of the law, but the explanation is that we should try a little bit better to not really repeat it. Furthermore, the remark. It is said that, in practice, the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, i.e. that insurance companies were required to pay those 10%, that this was estimated to normally require compensation for the treatment of victims in a car accident. On what basis has that been assessed? Initially earlier years, cca 2.5% was paid, i.e. last year and the rate of effect was 1. We predicted 10%, obviously by heart, because in six months, we've been trading for 7%, and we say that's enough. I think it should have been explained that these costs were at least for those who were killed in these car accidents so that we would really know that they were at least approximate funds and these 7% that are being paid and that it won't be possible to bring them down in the Constitutional Court tomorrow, because insurance companies, you can read the threats they're going to tear down by constitutional lawsuit. Therefore, if these were real costs, if this data were behind it, if it was brought on the basis of some indicators, the question of whether or not it could be destroyed. So again we're just guessing that's 7%, so maybe that 218 million that should be picked up is enough. But I'm saying you owe us an answer, what about the difference that was supposed to be paid in the last six months? Is that a commitment? How do we charge for it? Itd. Maybe we should be able to deliver more quality proposals here in the future, because every 6 months we go to juvie, I think it gives a bad picture to this House, a bad picture to us MPs, and then it goes to problems and a normal financial situation that results from not paying certain taxes, certain taxes that individual societies are obliged to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38453	Thank you very much. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a colleague before me very detailedly explained this proposal to amend and supplement this law. Especially here are very positive and cheerful colleagues Milinkovic. So I am not going to repeat all the details of the contribution, i.e. the income of compulsory liability insurance regulated by these amendments and additions. So a new rate of 7% should be more positive than that of the bill so far. However, I will say briefly only so that I could agree with my colleague when she said that we should find ways for those insurance companies that did not comply with their obligation in the first six months or that they partially agreed to fulfil their obligation. I will say briefly what I am particularly pleased that there has been a change in this law in Article 37, where it has been foreseen so far that the insurance company that has met the conditions for retirement in accordance with the rules on pension insurance, has no right to pay the burden on the assets of compulsory health insurance during sick leave, but on the burden of the employer’s funds etc. Many employers have also spoken to me that it was likely that a mistake was stolen when we passed a whole package of health laws. And that is why I am particularly pleased that this is now being corrected in a way that is changed in article 37, that is to say that the insurance company who turned 65 years of age and 20 years of insurance training on the basis of independent and independent work. It's a positive change, especially for the reason that this is how women are equalized with men, which so far has not been. I will support the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38455	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38456	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Here I am going to be referring to the discussion of the distinguished colleague Doric and Mrs Chuhnil, and I will try to help explain this situation that you have noticed and since I am a member of the Health Committee, I will literally read you our conclusion on the situation. He says, "It is useful to reduce the percentage of decommissioning from the paid functional premium from compulsory insurance from car responsibility from 10% to 7%. Thus, the percentage of decommissioning is consistent with the actual costs of health care of injured in traffic accidents. However, it is inadmissible that insurance companies have failed to comply with their legal obligations in a manner and within the deadlines provided for by the law. In addition to reducing the percentage of board members, they shall also support a provision setting the deadline for the monthly execution of the obligation as well as the criminal provisions for its non-execution. The Ministry of Finance is now on the order of the Ministry of Finance "to take all necessary steps to make payments from the previous period, and to adopt, as soon as possible, implementing rules to determine how to pay and report, as well as to monitor the implementation of this law.". So I believe in it at this point, and it seems to me that it will be possible to get rid of it. As far as the penalties are concerned, we have concluded that they are the ones that are regulated in Article 125a. From 500 thousand to a million kunas that are appropriate in this situation because this refers to societies and to a responsible person from 30 to 50 thousand kuna. So it's the first situation to be solved by this law. The second situation, as has been said, I do not know if it has been said, I have not heard that the medical committees of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute are being replaced by authorised doctors in order to ensure better operationality and facilitate communication between the selected doctor of primary health care and the authorised doctor. The third situation relates to the Law on Medical Insemination. He says: "The addition of Article 16 of the current law regulates the Croatian Health Insurance Office to ensure the payment of health services in full.". The fourth situation, it is proposed that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute ensure that healthcare services are fully paid for the overall treatment of chronic psychiatric diseases and not only for their hospital treatment, because we know that psychiatric patients require continued and accessible specific consular and primary health care. The fifth situation governed by the proposed law is arranged to ensure that the Croatian Health Insurance Office ensures that health services are fully paid for primary laboratory diagnostics. And the sixth one he spoke of, and Col. Milinkovic, in order to carry out health information, was introduced a new health insurance card, so-called. Smart card. And I will add one conclusion relating to the first situation that says that the reduced rate of functional insurance premiums, mandatory insurance against car responsibility and regular payment would result in revenues of 518 million kunas and 18 thousand 800 kunas higher per year. The HDZ will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38457	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38458	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to say is that by reducing the rate from 10% to 7% of the paid functional insurance premium from compulsory liability insurance and I stress, I'm undermining the regular payment, the revenues for a little less than 19 million kuna at the level of a business year would be realised. This is how a double effect is achieved. First, the percentage of decommissioning that is actually becoming consistent with the actual costs of health care injured in traffic accidents, which has already been highlighted by a colleague. And secondly, the regularity of the payment of the prescribed funds by insurance companies until every 10 days of the month which has not been the case so far and which is actually inadmissible. In addition, the dilemma expressed by Ms Chuhnil's esteemed representative, in fact, with the implementing regulations that will establish these methods of payment and reporting, as well as the supervision of law enforcement, will enable the Ministry of Finance to charge debts from previous periods. Furthermore, this law has also implemented a rapid implementation of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination. Furthermore, the value of these changes and additions is also that HZZO will ensure that health services are paid entirely for the complete treatment of chronic psychiatric diseases and not only for their hospital treatment as has not been the case so far. Continuing and available healthcare at all levels of health care enables these patients to have longer remission, thereby longer working capacity, but also simply less frequent need for hospitalisation, and in the end not only reduces the cost of treatment and disease but it is very important to say and raises the overall quality of life of these patients as well as members of their families which we do not want to forget, or should be constantly highlighted. Multiple benefits for both the patient and the state will also have a smart card whose ultimate goal is a doctor without paper, meaning large savings in both money and time. So, as an important part of informing the system in addition to all the important information about the patient himself, there are no more instructions and recipes, there is a short-term administration of which ultimately benefits both the patient and the waist and then we definitely have a sign of the equality of the state. Therefore, these are important reasons why I will warmly support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38459	Thank you. Health and Social Care Minister Darko Milinovic's final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38460	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I'm part of this debate and I'm listening on TV, and I'm sorry because I was in an important meeting, so I didn't come to the beginning. The question was why the reduction from 10% to 7%. I think that's what the secretary of state said, because the real costs of treating traffic accidents that happened in the car or the actual costs of treating these patients must go through insurance companies and they are at an annual level at about 200 million kuna. We, with a 10% charge from the charged, total paid functional premiums with a 10% amount, came to, according to calculations, a figure of around 240, 250 million kuna. And therefore, after the analysis, we also accepted the suggestion of insurance companies to reduce it to a real rate. They asked for 5%, but we figured it was 7%. But one important thing is why during the reform of the health system we went to this kind of payment of treatment for those who died in traffic accidents and the fact that last year we managed to charge only 60 million kuna and had 2300 litigation with insurance companies and who often went into obsolescence, and so we decided as much of the European Union countries, that therefore a certain percentage of the paid functional premium goes directly to the state budget, i.e. directly to the health budget. So I used to joke that we would also participate in reforming the justice system and that we would relieve the courts of these 2300 procedures. As for the repeated violation, we have fines for legal persons from 500 to millions of kuna. So, I guess the first kind of punishment could be 500 thousand kuna, and each other would have to be consistent with the repeated offense and greater. What, when we passed this law then you saw in the media was often heard that the shelves and the insurance from the car accident would be increased, so it would be more expensive according to this law. This is fortunate for our citizens, so to say the Government of the Republic of Croatia, did not happen because insurance companies within this mandatory insurance from car accidents to this law have benefited greatly, and paying or financing the treatment, paying for the treatment of those who were injured in the car accidents was unjustly burdened by the state budget, or the burden of 15% of the contributions that each of us employees make. And once again, these treatments must also be paid by insurance companies and at an annual level is about 200 million kuna. And once again I mention a very important piece of information, we have been able to charge between 50 and 60 million kuna over the years. Unfortunately, some insurance companies have not, I will say so, responded to their obligations under this law. We have asked the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Police and the HANFA to control all this and we expect these days to collect the backlogs of seven insurance companies. I want to say it very publicly here, seven insurance companies, so if you need to name those companies. Seven insurance companies haven't paid that 10% functional burden premium since 1.1, and 4 I think it's half. That's about 80 million kuna somewhere. And I talked to the Minister of Finance and the head of the Financial Police that in the next month, so a little sharper approach to charges, forced to charge those somewhere around, up to now 80 million kuna. Thank you. I think I just mentioned everything that was heard in the debate. I thank you for the debate, and I believe that this is the way we are, and within this law, we have solved some of the concerns that insurance companies used not to pay in the state budget. I believe that these amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act have therefore been adjudicated by some potential unknowns used by insurance companies not to pay a 10% premium from a paid functional premium of car responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38461	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with discussion of the Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, first reading. And it is predicted that around 10:30 would vote on all the discussed items of the agenda, these draft laws, other than the budget that would go to the polls on Friday, preferably as early as 9.30, 10 hours. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't know anything about that right now. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll see about that tomorrow. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-29-0.u38462	Eighth, Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. 422. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was passed by most votes, 106 votes for and one abstention. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We are continuing the work of the 13th extraordinary session. We're going to agenda point 12. Proposal for a law on tourism and other building land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, first reading, P.Z. No. 423 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
