ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41637	Very short. When will the Parliament discuss an arbitration agreement with Slovenia?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41638	We have not yet received a proposal from the government, but it is realistic to expect it on Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41639	Not today?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41640	Hardly today. We move to - - Proposal for a decision on the list of companies of special national interest Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed this decision on the basis of Article 11. Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Miljenko Pavlakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41641	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You shall be presented with a list of companies of special national interest to determine the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is precisely on the basis of Article 11(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. As you know, this decision on the list of companies of special national importance was made for the first time on 1 October 2004, which was updated on 3 December of that year. As some changes occurred, there was also a need to establish a new list. When establishing a list of companies of particular national interest, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has conducted four criteria when determining companies, at least two or more of which had to be cumulatively met in order to further place a list of special state interests in a particular company. These criteria were, as you can see under number one, that the company must be owned by a majority state or predominantly state-owned. The second criterion was that the company must be of special importance to the Republic of Croatia. Third, the company must be of particular infrastructure importance to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the company had to be of particular economic importance for certain regions of the Republic of Croatia in which they are established, and that the company had particular importance for the development of a particular industrial branch in the Republic of Croatia. On this basis, this list is drawn up before you, and we are asking for its vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41642	Thank you. Does the rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41643	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties in Article 11 states that the membership of civil servants in companies, administrations and supervisory committees of companies, and paragraphs 5 and 6 have been regulated in such a way as to enable officials to be members of the management or supervisory boards of commercial companies, but, exceptionally, in a maximum of two supervisory boards of companies, institutions and extra-financial funds which are of particular national interest. Unless a special law lays down that an official is a member of the supervisory board of a company, an institution and an extra-financial fund in a position. We also regulated by law that for membership in the supervisory boards of companies, institutions and extra-financial funds, the official has no right to any compensation other than the right to compensation for travel and other costs. It is also prescribed at the end of Article 11(6) that the Croatian Parliament shall establish a list of companies of special national interest on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today we are discussing the government's proposal and this list of companies. The Croatian Democratic Community Club holds that all companies that are listed truly deserve the epithet of companies of state interest, from "Croatia Insurance", "Croatia Airlines", Croatian Post Bank, to shipyards, public systems such as Croatian Railways, Croatian Electroprivreda, Croatian Post Office and Ine. We agree with the government's proposal that the list of existing 211 be reduced to the 57 that were proposed here, because there was indeed illogicality. For example. In addition to one INA or one Postage Bank, some accounting bureaus or technical inspection stations were on hand, with 10 employees and for the sole reason that the basic criterion and the only criterion for this was the share of the state owned, so over 25% of the underlying capital in that company. The criteria set out in the explanation are more appropriate, as shares cannot be the sole measure of the importance of companies for the overall economic system, for the development of individual Croatian regions or individual industrial branches. It should also be taken into account the fact that from the last list of companies of particular state interest, a certain time has passed in which, in accordance with privatisation and sale of shares by the state, the Privatisation Fund has also been reduced by swarms of companies in which the state has more than 25% ownership. There are around 810 companies in the portfolio, about 650 are state-owned and below 25%, respectively. In 75 companies there is state property between 25 and 50%, and in only 85 companies there is a portfolio of more than 50%. This proposal should also establish a reduction in the number of officials, i.e. companies and supervisory committees in which government officials can be members. The Croatian Democratic Community Club, regardless of the discussions held both in the public and in the media, is partly encouraged by the events in Podravka or HEP, the club supports this decision, and thus the commitment that we have defined even during the adoption of the law that state officials should continue to be in the companies listed in this decision, so in companies of special state interest. There is also a need to clarify a few more dilemmas, namely, this list is solely in the function of this Act and to prevent conflicts of interest in such a way that they are companies where government officials can be on their supervisory boards. Therefore, we do not have a situation to base this list on companies that will have special privileges, benefits, some special status towards other institutions, etc., but rather define this part of the conflict of interest, i.e. that in them, or on their supervisory boards they may be state officials. The second thing is that, in the supervisory boards of companies where the state has more significant business shares in core capital, which are not on this list, or they will not be state officials on their supervisory boards, does not mean that the state has given up its influence in these companies as the owner. Therefore, the State may, on its own behalf, appoint different experts or civil servants to represent in these companies the interests of the State as the owner. Here, given that all mentioned by the HDZ Club will support the proposal for a decision on the list of companies of special state interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41644	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41645	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of the very open SDP advocates' club will not support this Decision and there are more reasons why it will be so. The SDP representative club believes that politics, state officials, is not a place in the company's supervisory boards. I'll try to briefly explain that attitude and it exists for two basic reasons. We have witnessed the last five, six years of a bad situation in companies, especially in public enterprises, we have witnessed that in 2004, the first such decision was made to comply with the law that state officials could be in individual bodies and that at the end of October 2004, 210 companies were included in which state officials could sit on supervisory boards. We're not going to enter what the point is and whether these companies were really of strategic importance. There were companies dealing with bakery, which were bookkeeping, which were roofing, etc., so there was no talk about companies that were really owned, they were owned by the state but there was no saying that they were of strategic importance to Croatia. They were only important to the HDZ authorities at the time, so that certain HDZ representatives and state officials could sit on these supervisory committees and exercise interest and influence on the business policy of these companies. It was the only interest, but we can't even that interest with the state. On the contrary, it is not the state interest that MPs especially of this ruling coalition are sitting on the boards of directors of public enterprises. Yes, yes, Mr. Matusic. We are witnesses, we have witnessed the last days of an entire series of affairs that have been shaken by public companies and those companies that have been mentioned in that decision on state interest. We are witnessing "Podravka" where HSS and HDZ have been breaking down for a long time over the influence of who has greater influence in Podravka, they have divided the management of the company, they are from HSS, they are from HDZ, and now we see what the situation of such a business policy is. People wanted Podravka with money for their pocket to buy shares of that company. We are witnessing in the INA where the finance minister was the chairman of the INA Supervisory Board and now that that has changed, the same finance minister calls INA that I do not know how many billions of kunas are owed to the state budget. And until just 4.5 months ago, he was the one who was overseeing the company's work, so that debt didn't come into existence in the last three months. Croatia's insurance is constantly losing market share, the same chairman of the supervisory board of Finance Minister Shuker. HEP damage done by purchasing more expensive electricity, a billion and 400 million kuna, hiring party activists. Buying apartments at cheaper prices to directors in HEP. Renting an apartment for 15 thousand kuna a month, all supervised by the secretary of state who, by the way today, is the chairman of the administration, Leo Begovic. Brodosplit, this should not be discussed much 3 years ago by the chairman of the Supervisory Board, then Minister of Economy Vukelic. HZ, Hac State Secretary Livaković, all state officials in the companies that have the most affairs, and who fill newspaper columns, from which the money leaks on all sides, and of course that is why we are in this position that the state officials do not have to, but must not be members of the supervisory boards. Because they also showed this HDZ and HSS policy has shown that it has to go out because it is not capable of running these companies but is doing exactly the opposite damage. Another thing that goes into this, there is no need for government officials to be there because the state can gain its interest through the company congregations. If she has property she will participate in the assembly and can appoint professional people who will lead these companies through administrations and through supervisory committees. There is no need for HDZ and HSS representatives to be on the supervisory boards of these public companies. Tell me what Tonchi Vrdoljak has to do with Croatia's airline, as he oversees it there, his only qualification is that he is a member of HDZ. Or also former Minister Zuzul, that's what the President of the Republic warned him about. So a clear message from this pay phone from the state officials outside the supervisory boards, because you didn't deserve to be there especially in the context of this HDZ and HSS policy. I'd like to say a few sentences about public companies. The government of the Republic of Croatia monitors business reports from public companies every year, 20.21 approximately where the state is an absolute owner or majority owner. Unfortunately, he doesn't follow company reports at his sessions, these companies that are listed here. So only 20 of these former 210, and now on the new proposal of the 80s. And these companies, please watch this data, in 2007, they made a total profit of $1.6 billion. We're talking about HAC companies, HZ, Croatia Airlines, these major state-owned enterprises, everyone knows what this is about. And they got subsidies from the state budget of 2 billion and 900 million kuna, we're talking about 2007. So these monopolies companies cost the state a billion and 300 million kuna in 2007. That's, you'll see by the Poles, still a good result. The following year, these same companies made a profit of only 287 million kuna, meaning 1.3 billion less than the previous year, and the subsidies remained the same. They cost the state nearly 3 billion kuna again. This year it's even smaller and it's going to be even smaller. To point out in 2008, the report did not include an "INA" that had a loss of 700 million kuna, I guess it made the whole story a little more beautiful. If "INA" were in 2008 in this report, the loss of these public companies would be around 400 million kuna. And that says enough about how many supervisory boards manage these companies, how capable people sitting on these boards are. I'm not saying, maybe these people really don't have time because it's hard to sit on a minister of finance while he has to take care of state finances even at the Croatia Insurance Supervisory Board or on theINE Supervisory Board. Hardly, that's almost impossible. State secretaries of 2, 3 supervisory committees. Of course, then I can't do my job as it is and then, of course, things go by, as I've already mentioned before, which are passing. What the SDP is looking for and why it will give the next session an interpretation of the work of public companies and the role of the government in the work of public enterprises, because we are all aware that this is Croatia's wealth. These companies must do business, they are monopolies, they must do business for the benefit of Croatian citizens, they must not be at the expense of the budget. They must be a development generator, they must invest instead of spending money from the state budget in infrastructure that will then benefit and for better service to Croatian citizens. So we're asking that the government, after discussing this interpretation in 60 days, to report to the Croatian Parliament for a debate on the work in these companies, to task the congregations of these companies to change the supervisory boards so that they don't have state officials sitting in them, to have new supervisory committees write public tenders for the administrations of these companies not to have the situation again that people without qualifications and without any experience put themselves in the administration as was the case in HEP, where man is meteorically progressing in the company and becomes a member of the administration, and people don't even know what his qualifications is. So such situations, such affairs must be stopped. On the other hand, we're asking the government of the Republic of Croatia to and from this Parliament to have the State Review enter the largest state-owned companies every year. So all companies with a turnover of more than 50 million kuna, the State Audit must carry out a business audit. Because then we won't wait three years to see the situation around Podravka. Then some things will be clearer much sooner. No matter what "Podravka" had to do a long time ago, both "HANFA" and other participants in the capital market. So every year, the audit must carry out a review of business reports of companies that have more than 50 million kuna traffic, and other companies where the state has a larger share of ownership through funds or directly greater than 25% of shares must be carried out within 3 years in order to be able to control whether they are legally operating there and to avoid situations that are filled with news columns this year, such as "HZ", "HEP", etc., "Podravka" etc. And, of course, on the basis of that report, we believe that the State Audit has to do this job because the State Audit controls the spending of budget money in municipalities that have a turnover of one million, two kunas a year, and here they go, I would say, big companies without any control, and there's really a lot of stuff going on. Here it is, in the end it's clear from this exhibit that we're not for government officials to sit on company boards. There is no reason, I said, primarily the state can protect its interest through the congregations and there are ministers members of the congregations of all these companies that I have listed. Or participate in the assembly if the situation that the state is a 25% owner or as an INI is a 44% owner means the state can realise its interest without government officials sitting on boards. There are people who can find themselves on the market, who, for the benefit of the state and for the benefit of its citizens, will exercise control far better than did HDZ officials, HSS in the last five years. The results I cited are that the difference from 2007 to 2008, so the results are worse in these companies for nearly 2.5 billion kuna. That's 2.5 billion kuna, Mr. Matosic, for companies that are monopolies, which did not lower prices, but increased them, which have a regular charge. We're not talking about any recession because they have a regular charge. "HAC" charges on the spot with cash accounts, "HEP" excludes Croatian citizens in case you don't pay after a month of electricity, these companies have no liquidity problems, but only in their business. And until that changes, until this policy that supports non-transparency and inefficientness in these companies leaves things will not be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41646	Thank you. We have a few corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41647	Dear colleague Maras says, I would correct the incorrect quote "Croatia Insurance" constantly loses its share in the market, which is not normally true. However, it's nice to listen to this, this politicizing about supervisory committees where a colleague says politics outside the supervisory boards and company management, and the SDP is doing exactly the opposite. One speaks, the other thinks, and the other works. I'm going to give just one example in Sibenik that happened these days, where a man, a master who is a company with 20 million losses leads to a positive business. They just these days replaced him with a person who doesn't have a day's work experience in the economy, and he became the director only because he... for the new mayor who knows the whole of Sibenik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this here listening, it's nice to listen but it needs to be done in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41648	And correction by Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41649	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would, in effect, correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Maras, who found that the 2004 HDZ decision with the company list actually declared its policy that it wanted state officials on the supervisory boards. That's absolutely not true. The policy of state officials being on the supervisory boards is SDP's policy. It entered into force on 9 October 2003. So, your government and your majority in the House passed a law that prescribed that state officials could be members of the Supervisory Board. You didn't even limit how many there could be, what they could be. And secondly, it's not clear to me that the SDP club is against the state officials being on boards, and Mr Ljubo Jurcic accepts membership on the supervisory board, so I don't understand because it shoots at the seams of the club like the City of Zagreb Assembly shoots.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41650	Correction, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41651	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would correct the inaccuracies of colleagues, Maras, where he listed various public companies where there are different problems and blurry jobs. He forgot on the list and listed Zagreb Holding. Zagreb Holding is the only member of the SDP Assembly, Mr. Milan Bandic, where a man burns and burns, decides everything. There's talk of a whole series of problems and dirty jobs... Raised his hands from his mayor Milan Bandic, that those dirty jobs would finally come out. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41652	Correction, Mr. Angelko Mihalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41653	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to correct my colleague, Maras, when he says politics supports the non-transparent leadership of public, commercial societies. That's not true. If someone was doing something wrong it certainly did not work under the protection of their party or policy, but also if they say here what is going on at the state level I would remind him that SDP what a colleague Kulusic said at local levels, and there are many counties and municipalities where they are now in power. They replaced all the people who had professional equipment and capable people especially in the County of Varazdin and set up only their own people who often had nothing to do with companies who were appointed to supervisory committees for the chairman of the Supervisory Boards, etc. So, I'd say you need to go first if you're declaring such a policy then you're putting it into action where you're acting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41654	Correction Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41655	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, an incorrect colleague said the state supports the intransparency of business, because it allegedly doesn't control the reports of these companies. That's not true. Of course he controls them through both ministries and other institutions. But a colleague, the hypocrite is to say that state officials from the ranks of this coalition, means only from the ranks of this coalition of state officials and party members, so HDZ and HSS must not be on the supervisory boards. It means that members of the SDP... You shut me down, but you'll hear. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So today, state officials must be of the SDP ranks and perhaps with the SK membership. But a colleague you forgot in your time there were members... There were individuals who had more than 30 supervisory boards. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Some as many as 72 as one of your prime minister's deputies. So, being a member of over 30 supervisory committees at the time of the SDP was obviously some super talent that could compete, a super talent from the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41656	Thank you. Mrs. Bozica Solic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41657	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would beg not to exclude this one of mine, on this side of the right. I'd like to ask my colleagues nicely. Here is a colleague, Maras, in his debate, said and spoke, listed several state-owned companies where he believes corruption is inside these companies and believes and suggests that state-owned companies do not name people from the ranks of parties on the political stage in the Republic of Croatia, that this is not good because corruption is happening. I disagree with that and it is not true because we have in practice an example, an example that is 10 years old, which is Zagreb Holding. Because Zagreb Holding is now at a loss of 7 billion, or close to state-owned enterprises regarding the lack of finance. That's one example when the SDP made a decision, its... And that's why we don't. [[You can't hear the phone.]] Mr. President, this is very important. Not even the school... They pay 18% of the tax due to campaigning from the City of Zagreb. [[You can't hear the phone.]] Mr. Jovanovic, I'm suspicious that you haven't noticed... Please look at the real situation, not look hypocritically and think you'll... [[You can't hear the phone.]] [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41658	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Here's my colleague and colleague. I have a proposition. If you do not have enough time to correct the incorrect quote wait for the next opportunity and continue, whether, and yet you should stick to the Rules of Procedure. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41659	A colleague named Šolić has injured the Rules of Procedure. She hasn't fixed anything I've said, and this remark of yours is only true for HDZ deputies because they usually correct the allegations that don't exist in the speaker's presentation, so we'll still correct what's said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41660	The representative who wishes to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 209, shall be represented by the chair as soon as this request has been made, as you have received. The speech of that representative cannot last longer than one minute, and the representative must immediately state the article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury he is referring. So, we got along. You did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure, but...... I didn't hear him, but you can't say that you're just allowing parliamentary deputies on this right to speak without correcting. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It's my constant practice to warn everyone, unfortunately for nothing so far, so I went over it so everyone says what they think is right. We're moving on with the corrections. Here's Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41661	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Maras, claimed that people wanted to buy Podravka with money for their own pocket. You, dear colleague, can't say that. The institutions are doing their job and let the rule of law determine who wanted and who did what. So you can't press charges and judge immediately. It's kind of unserious and irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41662	Correction, Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41663	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Maras, said many affairs broke out in companies that sit on the supervisory boards of state officials. He mentioned Podravka, among many. The truths should be told that FIMA bought the first shares of Podravka from a bank where the chairman of the management of the bank was also the chairman of the Podravka Supervisory Board, and on the same supervisory board was the dean of a university, so independent experts. I know a lot of companies that ended up in bankruptcy where they're sitting. God's independent experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41664	We've exhausted these corrections. We're moving on to the debate. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41665	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. After this whole series of corrections and simply the opportunity itself and the overall situation is about the hypocrisy of access to this whole business. The hypocrisy is to claim one thing, hypocrisy is to claim another, but trust me, colleagues, it's really hypocritical to correct the allegation by mentioning something that happened ten years ago, and I'm going to quote what happens from minute to minute right these days. I'm talking about corruption in public enterprises. We therefore support the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a list of companies of public interest. We support and feel that it is necessary for the public company to sit in the Supervisory Board and representatives of the Government, certainly not in the way that it has been so far, certainly not in the way that this bill is proposed, because there are companies that are of public interest, but here in this list of companies in the proposal of public interest are also companies that are directly related to the interest of individual officials, individual regions and normal parties in power. Therefore, the position of the Croatian People's Party club is that in companies of public interest, government officials should, above all, sit in public enterprises, but certainly not in the way it has been so far. Certainly not. Now the second question is whether we can expect this amount of responsibility in the existing government. I personally don't think that we at the Croatian People's Party club have a whole series of arguments why not and that one responsibility that is necessary in politics, one very important topic here after the presentation of fellow Maras, a whole series of corrections of incorrect allegations I don't know whether one was essential, but populist that and that's the problem. And that's the problem of the board members, among other problems. In addition to the ownership criteria, this Proposal also introduces criteria, importance for the development of individual regions and importance for the development of individual industrial branches. Great. However, that is one general phrase. We at the Club of the Croatian People's Party believe that these criteria should be taken into account when talking about officials sitting on individual supervisory committees, but we also argue that criteria should be introduced. What are the criteria, based on what? What does it mean for the development of certain regions? My county, Varazdin County, Međimurje County, is it represented somewhere, is it a region of any interest to this country? Speaking of industrial branches, are there any textile companies here? Is there anyone in the wood industry here? There aren't any. Is textiles important to us as an industrial branch? Is the wood industry important to us as an industrial branch? I think it's a problem, and I think it's something to think about and something the government needs to take responsibility for. I would like to remind you, colleagues and colleagues, of a debate that was held at the 4th month of this year, meaning 6.7 months ago, when the Croatian People's Party Club referred to a proposal for a conclusion, which would, in conclusion, be obliged by the Government to submit a report once a year to the Parliament on the business of public enterprises, a report that, in general, always, always being discussed by the Government at a closed session. A whole series of events. What's the significance of public enterprises I don't think there's a need to speak, it's familiar to everyone. Brodosplit, trucks, Podravka, a whole series of HAC and Conning. That's right, coworker, and coning. I agree with you, colleague Mihalić and Coning. And it would be good for the rule of law to resolve the Coning issue after 18 years, it would be good for counterpart Mihalic. And not only that, but also many other things that you're very familiar with and you know what's reported in the State's Attorney's Office, specifically for your story... So, very clearly, we're hypocritical on the one hand, we're looking, we're responsible on the other hand, and in all this, corruption from day to day, and above all with public money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to remind you colleagues and colleagues of another fact, and we all know that public enterprises make up 60% of the total Croatian economy, that administrations are mainly elected, I repeat administrations are mostly chosen or almost mostly by the political key that it is public secret that in some of the public companies and companies that are now on this list of companies of special state interest, that these companies are driven by suppliers, suppliers with a strong political background. It's a public secret that in shipbuilding the word "cooperatives" lead. So the system of spilling out of state money into private pockets. The fact is, I'd very much like to be denied, that one of the most frequent guests in public enterprises lately is the police, the State's Attorney's office. In some public enterprises. Therefore, I think that, on this basis, a mistake has been made when you have our proposal to conclude that in the Parliament, and Parliament is the only one representing the public and public enterprises owned by all the citizens of this country. I think you've made a mistake refusing our proposal to discuss public enterprises with this House. The debate on public enterprises is being held, and in the press, and we have to thank the media, first of all, the press representatives for having the opportunity to get information about how public enterprises are doing to us, because we don't get it from the government. The government discusses it at a closed session. We have a state audit. It's the state's audit that controls it, but now I'm asking if the state's audit controlled the purchase of military trucks? Is it or isn't it? There's only one example. And I want to remind you of one more thing, and these are the conclusions of the coordination of state research agencies that took place at the end of July, whose only topic was crime in public enterprises. I repeat at the end of July, two months after the debate on our initiative to discuss the business of public companies in the Croatian Parliament once a year. And the conclusion was, Croatian public companies need to be thoroughly investigated, conduct criminal processing over part of the administration, and their business is subject to constant audit control. Priority should be given to investigations into the conclusion of harmful contracts in HZ, HEP, but also in other public companies of HAC, Croatian Waters, etc., etc., so as not to list them any further. Therefore, we do not need to push our heads into the sand, we know, we are participants in very negative events, primarily at the expense of the citizens of this country and we consider it extremely necessary and necessary and above all responsible for discussing business in the Croatian Parliament once a year. If we're going to introduce that, then it's not a problem if a state official is going to sit on a board of directors or not. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party think it is necessary to sit, but his work in the public company must be responsible. Finally, I am pleased that my colleague Mršić has submitted an amendment that is completely identical to our request that we discussed 6 months ago, which is that once a year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent to the Croatian Parliament and a report on the business of public companies. I believe colleagues and colleagues from the position because of the need, because of the blurring when we discussed our conclusions, the proposal of our conclusion called us to be populists, to deceive the Croatian public, the events behind this fifth, sixth, seventh, the departure of the prime minister without any reason, the eighth, ninth, tenth, the arrival of the European USKOK Olaf in the control of the procurement of certain public companies. I think that we are sufficient arguments to correct that mistake that was made by rejecting our proposal for a conclusion, and if it is adopted, when you have not already adopted our proposal for a conclusion in the 4th month, if a colleague Mršić's conclusion is accepted or adopted, in fact Mršić's amendment that the Government submits to the Croatian Parliament once a year a report on the business of public enterprises, which the government is only discussing at a closed session, in which case we at the Croatian People's Party club are ready to support this proposal for a decision with a note. And we expect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to these criteria of importance for the development of a particular industrial branch, by the criteria of importance for the development of a particular region, to really have these criteria and to establish, not in general, but in particular, and to target both its and industrial and development policy in this respect, and the fact that we still have no industrial policy, without talking about the regional development strategy and all the other things in the drawer, but we are not ready to present it, and it is directly related to the business of public enterprises and is directly related to the presence of officials, state officials in the boards of public firms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41666	Thank you. We have a correction, Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41667	Thank you very much. counterpart Koracevic said that the corrections of his colleagues to Marasus were not essential, and they were all populist. That's exactly what you said. My correction to my colleague, Marasu, was not a correction to the impression, but a correction to the fact. And the fact is that what FIMA bought from the first section of Podravka, it bought from one bank, and at the time the chairman of the Podravka Supervisory Board was the chairman of the bank's management, from which FIMA bought the shares. And on the same board of directors, it wasn't the government officials, it was the Dean of the Faculty of Economics.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41668	Correction, Mr. Angelko Mihalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41669	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague, Koracevic, says public officials should sit on boards but not from this coalition. Which applicates that the most capable people who need to sit on board are right from his party. Well, in Varazdin County, they sit on all the boards without any criteria. And we can just say I'm not sitting on any supervisory board, let the great Mr. Korachević how much he sits, and also when he talks about it, this Varazdin County under their leadership is now in charge of nearly a billion kuna. Of course, they transfer it now all together to the government, and these all the expensive meals that Mr. Koračević has brought out here and that come from their party, therefore, permanently reporting to the state attorneys of all the commissioners, all the capable people of our county, resulting in the fact that here they are using this pay phone to show the reality in a completely different way in the Varazdin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41670	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41671	Thank you very much, Mr. President, you are today truly tolerable, allowing for the correction of something that I have not personally said and specifically refers to the fact that no one from your party can sit on the board of directors. That is not true, my colleague Mihalić I suggest you take a phonogram, I know it is difficult for you to go to debate because you do not understand, your only thing you understand is the purchase of municipal land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41672	This is an answer to the answer, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, on behalf of the IDS Club Mr. Agent Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41673	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. So to simplify the matter now are HDZ everywhere, HSS your coalition partners will tomorrow come to the application of power, IDS, HNS, SDP, and then you will no longer sit you but we will sit. It is also not good, it is simply not promising, although it is far from the Croatian set. The second thing I want to say and now this is the report in front of us, so the motion for a decision, should be only honest, tell people only the truth, the proposal for a decision on a list of companies of particular state interest. It is listed here if I am not mistaken for 57 companies, starting with the ACI at the conclusion of the Croatian Bank. There are good companies, there are catastrophic companies, there are failed companies, there is one Podravka, there is one HEP, there is one HAC there are Croatian railways, Croatian roads means those companies that are free to say and steal the most, that bite in some way a national substance not to say national sovereignty and always in the same way. Always in favor of private, always at the expense of the state. It's no different to be, or it's often so similar at local level. Today I read how many people have been employed in the last year in the ministries, over 1,000, so in our government there is employed a total of 1081 new employees, this state budget burdens for an additional 35 million kuna only this year, and that I am not counting any further. With Mr. Milinovic, the Minister of Health, 294, at Pankretić 162, near Shuker, 278, and so on. On the other hand, how many new people are employed in these companies, out of these 57 or in the list of 57 whose total share capital is estimated at 51.4 billion kuna, and the government portfolio in that underlying capital weighs at $42.8 billion. It's been employed over the past six years for sure 20 grand. On this scale these 57 companies are also Podravka, this Podravka in the state portfolio has a view or the state controls 20.46% with its portfolio, the value of these 20.46% is 332 million kuna, plus normally there is a Croatian privatisation fund that controls 9.84% of the total value of 159 million kuna. Here these 500 million kunas were in the function of taking over a group of managers in this second phase, and in the first phase, managers took over this famous FIMA owned by one opposition champion 10.64% yesterday. What makes me Istrian the most tangling about how they blew us up under the nose of Mirna. An affair with which buying Podravka shares could cost the company 50m euros next year, which is a relatively modest assessment. What's going on today, I don't know if it's necessary to open this topic, but if I have time, I'm sure I'll touch it because it's one of the first-class scandals we've been tracking through our media at the moment. I said, too bad we don't have information about employees in these companies, that we don't have a review of the losses, how many states were involved in the recovery of these companies, the traffic, how many other systems were taken over, in one word as Mr. Koračević says we don't have that report on the business of these public companies. I repeat these systems from these tables 57 are subject to conscious takeover, conscious theft, conscious sucking and national substance. Now, we come to the question of whether officials can be board members, so let's be realistic, it's clear that I can, I'm not in any way, whether it's a good solution for officials to be, surely that this solution is not an ideal solution. Is the ideal solution on the other hand to keep the supervisory committees as independent as in Podravka, so no, so here we see no mention but I must, Mr Vedrish was a member of the Supervisory Board of Podravka from 2007 to this day, whether or not Mr Jurcevic has taken over the Supervisory Board. Clearly, politics should be removed, but whether everything is left to managers who do everything on the other hand for their own private interest, it is as bad as having politicians on the Supervisory Board. For example, was Mr. Mariner from Podravka a member of any party? No, but he got it all over these parties. I don't know, I guess. The thesis independently, perhaps more so, this thesis that is heard that an independent court must be, perhaps even more undermines one material substance than the parties themselves. Are the heads of the shipyard party people? As a rule, they're not. Were they in Podravka? No, they're not. They are in one HAK, Croatian roads, HEP, there may be, they are working with the most money and can be raised the most. Are our leading managers who took over or privatized this national wealth through the conversion or privatisation of today's party people? No, they're not. But in '90, '91, '92, '93, they sure were. Are they apolitical today? Of course not. So today, through capital, they realize that their economic systems "fall" want a president who will simply protect their interests. Is today a presidential candidate, Mr. Vidosevic, independent? He says today I did, but whether he was even two months ago and whether he could achieve with his independence all of what he today or gain to this day. Everything Mr. Maras said earlier is simply true but I also make that logic if we want to be honest I can move to local self-government, it doesn't matter if it's about Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Pula, my Buzet, Poreč and therefore let's not be hypocritical gentlemen. Politics should definitely go outside, but now whether these "independent" are not part of politics. Disposing of yourself and giving to worse people is equally unpromising and bad and devastating when it comes to public enterprises. The same thing is gentlemen in the media. For example, we propose independent members of this or that council, but we propose at will, means that the parties choose. How independent they may be of some other occasion. And that's why a lot of demagogy, let's not paint. Let's just tell the people the truth. Officials in these supervisory committees are probably a disastrous solution, to God's "you independent" who chooses politics are also no better solution and nothing else is at local level than it is at national level. So what is there to do? Well, in my court, responsibility should be introduced, and that criminal responsibility should be clearly applied, not to us, but to the state's attorney's office, courts. This material responsibility should be applied, not everything to end with it. And nothing, that pitted simply. It is not true, for example, that all shipbuilding cooperatives today are doing a great job. Of some 250 companies, 200 and something is doing extremely badly and negatively with shipyards to pay and settle accounts. But who's okay? As a rule to independent directors, they usually get the heads of supply and so on. So, in the future, if we want to tell the truth to the people of politics, we won't be able to avoid it in these public enterprises. And there will always be a political will in the election. It doesn't matter now, whether it's the director of Croatian Radio and Television or the editor-in-chief, whether it's the editor-in-chief or the director-in-chief of the radio, whether it's the director of HINA, shipyard, Croatian highways, Croatian roads, Croatian electroprivreds, Holding or Istrian plumbing from Buzet. Likewise, the political will will always be when we choose a state attorney who will say to himself that he is as independent as the political will will be implemented in the election of judges and state auditors who are here shortly before or will appear later in front of us and the political will is present and in the election of the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Constitutional Court, and of the HANFA, they are all independent today but everyone knows as well as very well how they are elected, to whom they are responsible and to whom they are favored. Therefore, what is the goal of setting up a fair model, this should be discussed as should the permanent debate and the business of those for the nation's vital simply companies, that is the point. This is the essence of this Croatian survival, Croatia, which, if I am not mistaken, loses some 160 jobs, which each year for subsidies to agriculture, shipbuilding, etc. An estimated 8 billion kuna, which each year had to write down dozens of billions of kunas of its claims to these public systems, while on the other hand, it would immediately block a small craftsman, privateer, craftsman, etc. In one word, it is my judgment that, at this point in time, this country really needs one total twist when it comes to politics, one new policy, one new way of thinking. Maybe it would be really good to start with some independent tycoon ending up behind bars, maybe some minister, maybe some MP, I don't know. But the point is, in this country, we need one new work ethic, we need one new criminal policy, one new social policy, one new economic policy. We need to solidarity with citizens and it is clear that we also need a whole new policy when it comes to the management of these companies of national interest. In one word, it is equally necessary to introduce responsibility for what someone is doing or what someone has taken over. He can't just count on him to hire his friends through that system, to introduce his associates into business. It's mostly interesting for officials because they don't get any compensation, and then what happens doesn't matter because they're going to have another government coming after them anyway. Equally, it would be more than necessary to open the government's meetings on the work of these public enterprises so that the entire Croatian public would simply receive knowledge of what is going on there, because that might not have been the case for this damage suffered by Podravka, and it can be said that it will be at least worth about 500 million kuna. At this point, they're already reaching these billing rates and the question is how such a single system, it's going to survive, it's going to get rid of all of it, it's going to go "Podravka" maybe worse, but really it's going to be someone in such a reckless way, using "Podravka" within, by models from the '90s to try to take over, we were hoping that this practice stayed behind us in the '90s, that it's not possible today, but here we were. Therefore, it is fair to answer honestly, and I think that it is the only way we can remove our delusions from ourselves and this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41674	Thank you. At 10.48, it was time to apply for 10 minutes and we still have the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41675	Thank you, Mr. President, fellow MPs and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the government. After this, I would say, the inaugural speech of the presidential candidate is difficult to add, but I still can't resist leaving the HDSSB's position not to go out for this pay phone on behalf of the club and say a few words. In fact, our system is fully understood that management structures, supervisory boards and boards in the institutions are determined by the ruling set of structures, the governing structure. Therefore, in the period between 2000 and 2004, and in this after these five years, it is clear that the SDP with its coalition partners and the HDZ with its coalition partners also determined the compositions according to the principle of similarity and obedience in supervisory committees, etc. trade companies, I say. Because now that we see these affairs, then they're really companies because they've traded with what they've had in a way that they're actually on fire right now in corruption, crime that manifests themselves in affairs that nothing like mushrooms after rain and discovers every day. So there's no difference. Such is the system, so the system was set up and so were the SDPs in which there were members of the government who were in dozens of supervisory boards, so I don't understand how it was possible to physically get the supervisory board in 27 or 30 companies, a very interesting name of the company, although I thought that "Djuro Đaković" was a metal industry, a company or once a company, it is now a company in the state portfolio. And when we look at this list that Mr. Caine, the presidential candidate, was saying that it was 57 companies, and that the capital of these companies is 51.4 billion kuna, and from that in the portfolio of the state of 42.5 billion kuna, then I succeeded in this short time as I promoted little material, to see that of these 57 companies here in our Slavonia, Baranja and our beautiful rainy Sreme we have all 6 companies out of 57, and the total capital is 2 billion kuna of 51 billion kuna. Here's a bit of an interesting information, maybe statistics is a strange science and can be interpreted anyway, but just one more example, I'm saying, a little example of how the representation of state ownership, the share of state ownership, is, in some ways, by regions. When we talk about supervisory committees in these companies, then either the management structure, then I must remind you that this same "Djuro Djakovic" in 1990 before the Homeland War had employees of 17 thousand workers, and today it fell to 2.5 to 3 thousand depending on the number of employees at a certain time. No one in this House nor in the governments that ruled the Republic of Croatia, nor in the management structures, nor did it start because what happened to the largest metal industry in the Republic of Croatia, so "Djur Djakovic". At the same time, the shipyards were recapitalised, invested on billions of kunas, or rather, maybe billions of euros. That's how some states and supervisory boards and the management structure become mothers, and actually some stepmom. However, it is a convenient example that happened in Slavonski Brod that a course was held in the same holding company organised by the Faculty of Economics and this mentioned Dean of the Faculty of Economics, which was one of the "Podravka" also on the Supervisory Board, seems to me, for the 28 students of the training course for supervisory committees. You might think he's got a supervisory board course. And it was paid by Djuro Djakovic's holding company with 540 thousand kuna. So I would also inform you about when you look at the party structure of those students of the course then you would easily see who attends the Board of Supervisors in Slavonski Brod. 27 are party people, and 1 is reportedly non-partisan. And that's paid 540, so half a million kuna. Although holding "Djuro Djakovic" I said in this context of the bad that was happening to him and his fall, so now we have there in the circle of "Djura Djakovic" and the production of chickens and cardboard and wallpaper, etc., you know well what the circle of the factory and the company of Đuro Đaković has become, therefore, neither of you from the right or from the left to argue about who made the mistakes. Well, they made mistakes both, you made mistakes, and now it's showing up when all that evil is slowly revealed, all that unhappiness and immorality in the form of grabs that were made in state-owned companies, in state-owned companies, in public companies, or as it is said here in companies of special state interest. We should consider and agree here with Mr. Cain, we should consider and discuss here in the High House and in the public how to actually set up supervisory committees, how to achieve expertise in them but also control the state if they are owned by the state or owned by a majority state. Clearly, expertise is not a similarity that matters. I also heard a statement a month ago saying to tell the top SDP official who is proposing to introduce foreigners into the governance structures and supervisory committees. A very interesting thought, as if we have no brains or honesty in the Republic of Croatia, so we need foreigners to run us state-owned companies or state-owned companies. It is clear that the news was quickly downloaded from the media pages so that much was not mentioned, but there I saw with my own eyes in the prime information show of Croatian television that there was a statement that we should bring foreigners to our companies. I am convinced that among our highly educated young people, people who have graduated from colleges here, who have educated with us there are also honest and professional people who can run and manage our companies and be on boards and without the influence of politics but also be in the governance structure. These party oligarchies have already bred, rigid which actually through the supervisory boards draws the strings in all these companies, public companies, which is why they are responsible for all of this. And we'll come a little bit from the truck and Rončević, Podravke and Polancec and those up to the top, because it's quite certain that the people's saying, "Who steals is just as responsible as the one holding the ladder." ... That's good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, our High House Croatian Parliament or sometimes the Croatian National Assembly and all together regardless of party membership should consider and we should agree on how to organise supervisory committees that in future such things as I would have said arise from the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Public Private Partnership actually stems from the abuse of these laws of affairs that damage the Croatian state budget and hence Croatian citizens and taxpayers for billions, billions of kunas. And we can't go forward like this, until we can't go forward like this. Let's give the rhymes a little bit. As a result, I do not know about the vote itself clearly that this is just a fact, a finding, so the number of companies owned by the state is numbered, and there is really nothing to vote on or not to vote on, or not to decide, but in any case, it would be a good suggestion to agree once already on how to try to achieve good work and administrations and supervisory committees in these societies in order to finally move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41676	Thank you. Before we move to an individual debate, I would like to inform you that we are planning a vote on extending the agenda and voting on cross-border agendas at 13 o'clock, so I would like to ask the clubs to organise themselves in this regard and to come. An individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41677	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. In 2004, when we were in the Croatian Parliament, we brought the first list of companies whose supervisory boards were able by state officials, I said that we are doing a pointless list without criteria. At that time, the criterion was the only share of state ownership and therefore there was a list of 211 companies. The government is now proposing that this list be reduced to 57 and this debate has turned into whether government officials are better or worse members of the supervisory board than those we usually call independent. In all experience so far in Croatia supervisory committees when everything is well received by golden kunas and when the problem begins they become those who know nothing. In the language of North American Indians, those who know nothing and sit are called "sit bull." This is how most members of these monitoring committees behave. As one of these examples, and counterpart Maric likes to talk about phenomena and says he does not want to talk about individuals one case when independent experts run state property. The economic bank sells the shares "Podravka" to FINA worth about 150 million kuna and the value of 400 kuna if I'm not mistaken. It's all good, but at the same time the Director of the Business Bank Mr. Prka is the chairman of the Podravka Supervisory Board when the transaction is being carried out. And right after that transaction, the stock value drops far above 400 kuna. Is there anything in our legislation called using privileged information? Does the Director of the Bank at the head of the Supervisory Board have authorized information? It is not prohibited in Croatia. I'm probably going to be corrected by Mr. Maric, because I said about, I don't know the exact information. He's always precise so on his soul. Now the Government of this list of 57 companies explains that the criteria are more than 25%, of particular importance for a particular region or particular importance for a particular activity. Mr. Secretary of State, three questions. Alan Agency, 100% state property, not on the list, and it was. What's been liquidated? In bankruptcy? The Agency for Commercial Activity was on the list of 100% state property, it's gone. Where is she, what about her? Golf project in establishment, state project. Did you fail to establish it, or did it fail in the meantime? The founding golf project was on the list, now it's gone. I'm asking you to respond to this particular "Alan Agency" thing. Second question. The list included Medena 54% state property, Orebic 68, Živogosce 76% state property. Mr. Secretary of State, tell me what interest it is that these three hotels and others are on the list, and let's say "Chatex" from Čakovec with more than 30% of the state's stake. "Meiso", Gorican with more than 70% of the state stake does not. Because it's textiles, leather, rubber, shoes? We don't have to, do we? In Croatia? Or because they're međimurje companies? At the same time, in this "Catex" Croatian privatisation fund, 74 thousand shares reserved for former owners are converted into 10 thousand that should become shares of small shareholders. In all competitions where Chatex and its consortium are the most favourable offers, and the state calls it, they cancel out as the Ministry of the Interior. So the Chatex of Chakovec is not a state interest. "Meiso" from Gorican where workers have been saving him for years is not a regional interest or an interest in certain activities and this move, and some hotel is out there because it is the Adriatic, it is south of Croatia. Well, how long will the Drava River be so much trouble for you? As long as such a relationship between the state authorities and Međimurje will be present, even with this symbolic gesture, that the entry of a state official into the supervisory board could make something good for these people. I hope at least you'll give me some reasonable explanation why textile companies are suddenly neither of regional importance nor of particular activity. It would be good if, in the future, when such new decisions are made, as a supporter, you gave the old lists, and you explained the criteria a little closer. Maybe I shouldn't ask these questions that you've explained, that you've explained it, because you won't convince me that textiles where 70% of women are, as well as shoes, are not at least, at least regional interest. And finally, Mr. President, I'm asking for one hand. It's been 30 days since the day of the current morning when Prime Minister Kosor asked me to answer my question, and I asked for a written reply, promised to give a written reply, and on the publication of a secret contract on the sale of INA. It's been 30 days, I haven't received an answer or an INA sale contract, so please protect my business rights and judge me to finally get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41678	Thank you. We have a correction, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41679	It is true, Mr. Lesar, that the parties delegate members of the Supervisory Board to the care of their listeners. And it's true that they act like, as you said, a sitting bull in North America. But in North America, it's not speaking Croatian but English or Indian, so it's called Sitting Bull, and it's said in Indian Vatanka Tatanka.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41680	We have a replica, Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41681	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, I'm not going to correct you because your data is quite accurate, but I'm using the replica to supplement that data a little bit. Namely, FIMA bought the first shares of "Franck" and PBZ, as you said, but from PBZ worth 154 million kuna, a total of 347 thousand 250 shares at the price of 451 kuna and 22 May 2006. Ten days later, the stock price dropped the truth below 400, but it's even more, below 380 kuna. The price difference in those ten days was only on the bank shares of 24 million kuna. At the time, it's true, as you said, the chairman of the Podravka Supervisory Board was not a state official but was the president of that very bank. And the board member wasn't a state official, he was a college dean. Deans I don't think belong on the boards of state-owned companies, they belong in college. The Deans belong in the administrative councils of state scientific institutes, state scientific agencies, and is not a place in the supervisory boards of state-owned companies of state interest or business partners of the company, nor representatives of the interest group. And I hope that you too will agree that the responsibility of state officials and politicians is responsible for events in such companies, and will then be more effective and effectively supervised by representatives of the government rather than representatives of stakeholders, representatives of the faculty or any other institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41682	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41683	Comrade Maric, I thank you for the correction of my data, because indeed 400 and 450 kuna per share is not the same. I need to check my future data sources. 24 million kunas at the price in a few days due to a decline in stock value. That's very good. I don't know what to say, that perhaps after that action by the Uskok and the State's Attorney's Office, the Index, we've matured for one operation, the dean may be because wherever you punch, there's some consultants on the ESO program that's big. The ESO programme provides for small shareholders, workers to become owners. This modified version of the Croatian ENOP leads the deans to become owners of not small shareholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41684	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41685	Dear colleague Lesar, your list of transactions with Podravka shares on the stock market reminded me of an event in 2001 when also on the Zagreb Stock Exchange Arena Tourists, at the lowest price possible. And to my countless enquiries, they all respond that it's legal. And you used a famous formulation of the use of privileged information and found that it wasn't illegal. I can agree with that, but it's immoral. But there is a possibility of corrupting. It seems to me, too, that if we as a society and as the largest representative body in Croatia are silent about it then we are tolerated by certain forms of corruption. Or the patterns of individuals' earnings without contributing to society, so I think this is a very interesting topic and thank you for opening it. The second question is whether anyone who's the chairman of a private company's administration, a private bank, and at the same time in the supervisory board of such a large company, I'd set up a dilemma. Is it a conflict of interest or a public-private partnership?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41686	Thank you. Mr. Lesar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41687	I'll talk about the use of privileged information. I have set myself up, so it is good that you too continued on this topic whether it is really allowed in Croatia to use privileged information. I don't think so. But what is important when such things happen in the European Union is that everyone who used or abused privileged information on the stock market and made material and financial gains end up in one place – in arrest, and we get golden kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41688	Thank you. Mr. Petar Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41689	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'd go back to getting back to the point of trouble. The list of state-owned companies of particular national interest shall be adopted under the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and in those companies in supervisory committees shall be established by state officials, but will not be able to be in commercial companies. Otherwise, I submit a presentation on behalf of Luka Vukovar d.o.o. for the following reasons. Luka Vukovar d.o.o. According to the Law on Inland Water Ports, it is classified in the port of international transport and importance as the most important port on the international Danube River in the Republic of Croatia. And all ports are on the list of companies of special state interest except the Vukovar port which was listed while it was in VUPIK. In the 2004 port of Vukovar's previous decision, Vukovar was an integral part of the Vukovar VUPIK, thus being on the list of companies of special state interest. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 17 November 2007, the port is detached from the VUPIK and is owned by the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Finance. I believe that the procedures and activities referred to above are sufficient reason for meeting my request in the accompanying play, and I will add to the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41690	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Now that we are already talking after so many years again and we have in our hands this proposal to decide on a list of companies of special state interest, we are also pleased to see that this number has been significantly reduced since 2004. At the time, we had a huge objection that over a hundred companies, over a hundred companies were marked and found on this list of special state interests. That's where some of the veterinary stations even found themselves. But is that enough? Let's just go once, I'll only go back to this history with one sentence, which dates back to the 1990s, when state officials had mahogany, except for the big debt salaries and paid supervisory boards. Since 2002, and thirdly, they have remained state officials on the supervisory boards, but have no longer been paid. But that wasn't good either. So, I think that the time when, after each election, any local, any state purchases of various clientele and winning team settles to send their people, or those that need to be calmed down to individual supervisory committees. If anything compromised politics and this policy entirely it is exactly a member of the supervisory committees, and even when membership in the supervisory committees did not produce any affair in that company. This further demoted politics and reduced citizens' confidence in politics and political parties. So let's see what we can do and why please. Why do people fight so hard to be board members? It's a very simple thing, they have a salary and they're not responsible for anything. So these are the people, here's colleague Lesar earlier saying they're responsible and they're running away from responsibility. So, people who are responsible for everything and responsible for nothing. And that's why all officials have to get off the board of directors. And I think that a consensus should be reached on policy affirmation, on the rehabilitation of politics, but on the welfare of these companies. The truth of the whole process, which I've shown here briefly, is going towards it, but it's still slow, and the affairs are piling up and multiplying. So, under urgent circumstances, this is an opportunity, and precisely this current event where such things come up, is an opportunity to reach a consensus and first of all to pass the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest where it will be prohibited, under one of the officials of the state and local authorities, to be able and allowed to be members of the Supervisory Boards. Secondly, that officials who, the people who have opted for politics, that their companies and closest relatives and related persons cannot deal with these companies. I can't do business. It's politics or business. And that would make a lot of difference, first of all, to the purity of the call, for which we are all together responsible. It's simple stuff. Why don't we reach a consensus on that? If they were mistaken that the official was the best known thing, he would best make sure that both the government's success depended on it and thus, it turned out not to be so, for a number of reasons. The second thing that needs to be done urgently and amended by the Penal Code, under which members of the boards of directors and supervisors will be the first to be called to account when something is happening with the company. After all, it is a model of business and responsibility in all civilised countries. I'll remind you again, we designed a crime in the 2003 Penal Code novel precisely for the management structures, by which they were first called, by which they were invited to know everything that was going on. Unless they're... responsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so that thing works everywhere. Unfortunately, that law has been abolished. We've had changes to the Penal Code on several occasions, but so much of the desired change has never happened in this particular sense. So it's something that's waiting for us I think after and change the Constitution as an imperative. And because of that, many, above all, ministers, other officials would have avoided exactly, and would have been invited to be members of a company's supervisory board, especially because of being headed, to be headed by a resolution, especially in the time of the reform procedures required full engagement. And such a person simply cannot and does not have time to perform a real duty which, in the end, and according to the Law on Commercial Companies is given in jurisdiction. And if they were to answer with personal property for the damage they cause, then we would have to, and we would be looking for people who would ever come forward. Then you need a person to reward you adequately, but then it's a clean bill policy. It wouldn't have occurred to me, even if the government officials had the chance to be members if they did. If, by the letter of the law, they were to answer. Everywhere in the world those who have the criminal act, no one can defend themselves I didn't know what was going on in that, because he was invited and sent to know exactly. Eventually you can... responsibility if someone was behind his back, but it has to prove it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we're not talking about issuing fake balance sheets, etc., where the world's most severe penalties are being prevented. Those who have life sentences in prison, even life sentences in prison. And 30 and 40 are considered moderate years in prison. It's not usually a crime with us. Or worse, sometimes under public pressure, even some actions are initiated, but they never experience adequate judicial epilogues, and then it creates an additional confusion of the public and mistrust in all institutions, first and foremost in the judiciary. So, the fact is, it's no secret and no one can deny it that these state-owned companies serve as hunting places. How many, I recently asked a representative question, how many people are employed in certain companies? It's a fascinating number, and even at a time when the government is openly saying that we have a large number of people who are employed in the state administration. Therefore, these companies need to stop either where the state is the owner of the predominantly or in any part should stop being warehouses similar. Especially since they often use public procurement in their business, and these public procurements are often secret contracts, not public procurement, and we have the most problems. It is the European Commission's progress report, on Croatia's progress in 2009, that public procurement remains, I literally quote on page 10, public procurement remains the biggest source of corruption in Croatia. It is all in a way and connected, because it is the state and through its companies that is the largest employer, i.e. the provider of these jobs. So here's how it is, that state-owned companies wouldn't become and wouldn't stay for hours of nostra, because we know what happened a few years ago while there's even pressure on Brussels, how many state-owned companies funded campaigns, while we're not saying, that's something that was meant not to even have to be by the letter of the law, that it shouldn't be specifically and explicitly written and banned. In law, we had to change the law not to do it openly. But there are still doubts that money is being sucked out of state-owned companies and whatever... No matter what these affairs are now coming up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just remember the lot, where it was publicly announced that the lotto, how the company financed the presidential campaign of a candidate, was made public. So, let me conclude, what we need in order not to face these and similar problems, companies owned by a state cease to be secret societies, cease to be warehouses of likeness. We need to simply amend these two laws and a lot of things would then be clearer and not have these problems that we have to face today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41692	Thank you very much, colleague Antičević Marinović. We have two applications for replication. First of all, dear dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41693	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Antičević, I agree with you that it is necessary to amend several laws relating to the responsibility of the supervisory board, but it is necessary to amend in particular the Company Act, where it should be defined in a different way, on the one hand, the conditions for members of the Supervisory Board, on the other hand, the responsibility for members of the Supervisory Board. However, we are now discussing, not trade societies owned by the state, but societies of special state interest. We have not defined anywhere what is a particular state interest, which are activities, and this decision should satisfy these two reasons, on the one hand, that it is a state interest in certain state-owned companies and others when state officials can be members of the Supervisory Board. I think the opinion prevails that state officials should not be members of the Supervisory Board, that they must be professional people with special skills but also special responsibilities. On the other hand, the question of what is the state's interest and when we look at the particular state interest and look at this list, surely it's not the state's interest that a government official sits on some surveillance board of a hotel, not even some company that writes here. I'd say one of the definitions of state interest is that it's energy, that it's infrastructure and that's something else. However, since we have no definition of what is a state interest, then any company in which the state has a share can be a special state interest, and just to say that the state has acquired ownership in certain companies, so it has been acquired as a result of the conversion and privatisation of former social enterprises. Therefore, one is a state interest and another is the property of a state in companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41694	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41695	Unfortunately, Comrade Zgrebec, we have a definition of what this is of state interest. In the golf course of Article 1, the construction of the golf course is of particular national interest, which is a state interest unfortunately. And I agree with you that it was precisely in the strategic branches of both energy and port affairs and ports that we should declare it a state interest and we should do so as soon as possible. But what a special state-of-the-art interest it is now and what he is looking at in practice. I will repeat what I have said and in my debate, he has looked around and looked around and has looked around to this day in where, after his election, he will place his likenesses, where he will place members of his coalition partners to please them and raise their hands in a congregation, in which the council or in the assembly. So let's not be surprised that they don't manage companies, nor are they supervised by these companies, but also simply by their incompetence, by unpreparedness, but when they don't do the right job, they work in a way to control these companies and the material damage of taxpayers who will make up for it later and resuscitate it hugely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41696	Thank you very much. And a second application for the replica, dear colleague Shime Luchin. Here's your colleague, Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41697	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm not sure I could agree entirely with my colleague Ingrid especially in the department of government officials. I don't think the problem will be solved by not sitting on the boards of state officials. I actually think it's not just the owner's representative, it's the owner's problem. If the Croatian state, first of all, had the Croatian government treated its resources more responsibly, it would have taken care of its representatives on individual supervisory committees. I actually don't think the owner gives a shit what happens on these boards. Because you're careful that some government official goes to some supervisory board, and if he were aware that if that company were to do bad business, if it were to fail, that actually his career, not only on that supervisory board, but otherwise questionable, I'm not really sure that government officials would fight for positions on supervisory boards, especially in firms that don't stand well. And another thing that seems very important to me. It seems to me that, in the end, it might not be bad with such legal solutions that government officials are sitting there, rather than actually knowing whether or not they are going to be rewarded, because they actually need to be changed entirely by the owner's relationship to the property, and not actually whether or not they are going to be sitting in that place.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41698	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41699	That was the point of my entire debate, it's a matter of responsibility. But responsibility doesn't seem to come of itself, we need to make her legal first. This is almost the normal result of an abnormal condition. People are paid there, officials aren't, but they have a different influence, people are paid if it's what they deserve, but they're not responsible for anything. Our board members say I didn't know, and then he says I'm not responsible. Until we change and have modern economic incriminations that are designed, I will repeat, everywhere in the world and which are designed primarily for the management structures will not be a shift but this will be what you colleagues of Lucin are talking about, then there will be no structuring and fighting for those places. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41700	Thank you very much. A further discussion was filed by counterpart Davor Huška. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would not continue this politicisation with the members of the supervisory board in companies of particular national interest but I would like from one example in the field of special state care in the war-related area of our Republic of a commercial society, meaning from an individual according to the general state of these societies to say and say a few words. If the state hadn't entered and declared in companies of particular national interest a large number of companies and companies with war on the affected areas, today areas of special state interest from Konaval to Ilock, here via Lipik and Pakrac, a region from which a large part of these societies would certainly not exist today. There would have been a variety of privatisations, probably those companies would have been wiped off the face of the earth. Fortunately, in a large number of cases, this did not happen precisely through the strong role of the state in these companies, companies, their recovery occurred, their recovery occurred, there were more favourable conditions for the privatisation of these companies, and thanks to this list of 57 companies, there are no large numbers of companies in the area of special state interest because they carried out successful privatisation. Today, in this state, the Lipik Health and Recreation Centre, one company that was completely destroyed in the war, one wealth that was in Lipik in the Slavonia area, in the war, was completely injured, partially restored, conditions were created with the help of the state to call a privatisation tender, the competition was called and the acquisition of offers was just under way to privatise the company. If it hadn't been for the state's authority, if the state hadn't done all this time, as a company of the special state interest of the ZRC Lipik, helped in different ways, if it hadn't entered the reconstruction procedures, today there would be nothing, there would have been no employees, there would be no conditions for such a company to be privatised. We know that privatisation is also in the Vukovar "VUPIK" that quality conditions have been created and that a whole series of companies are being restored with the help of the country in the war-torn areas. It was continued with work, people were employed after the Homeland War, and here were successful after that and carried out privatisation procedures. From that point of view, I would like to say that it was good to declare a number of companies with a status of special interest to the state. I believe that this number before us today 57, and on the last list before this 180 companies, will soon be reduced. That the state will successfully privatise individual companies and that the status of companies of particular state interest will really keep those companies which, according to today's normal criteria and standards, should be. Here's an example of the war of the injured areas where the state has successfully preserved a large number of jobs through these special care programmes, special care for companies, successful privatisation of these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41702	Thank you very much, colleague Hushka. We have one report of a replica, colleague Lucin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41703	Thank you very much. I would just like to warn my colleague that we do not only have good examples where the state has put on the company register, i.e. companies of particular interest. Look, I'm gonna go back to what I just said. So, I have an example of a shipyard where some state officials are sitting and where privatisation actually goes in a certain way, you would dare say, squish or not go at all. Not only is privatisation not going at all sour, but in all these years there have been some people, government officials, and no restructuring has happened. Now, you see, if members of the supervisory board were to be held accountable, and first of all, the companies on this list, then I'm not sure that my colleague Rozic would be trying to get into the Trogir shipyard when we all know, or someone else, when we all know what the situation is like in the shipbuilding process, but he'd think twice about sending a top engineer, economist, planner or if he went there. That's the point. We have to try to stick to the point. So there are good examples, but you have, unfortunately, even more bad examples from these lists where companies are bad, no matter what they are of particular national interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41704	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41705	Thank you. I agree with my colleague Lucin in one part of your presentation, of course, but I focused my discussion on the areas of war I suffered in the Homeland War because if there was no activity of the state through this way to help these companies through the status of these companies as of a special state interest, these societies would have disappeared from the face of the earth. Jobs would be lost, quality conditions for privatisation would not exist. Of course, in this part of the beautiful part of ours there are gaps and there have been some unusual privatisations, some companies have failed, but a large number of companies with war on the affected areas, with the status of special state interest being successfully privatised, jobs have been preserved, and I believe that through this model of privatisation of shipyards and other companies in Croatia will come to a successful privatisation in the interests of both employees and state and ultimately of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41706	Thank you. There is a complaint for the debate of distinguished counterpart Davor Bernardic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41707	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and here I must say at first that this proposal as it has come is quite unprepared and would not like to embarrass yourself without having to do with such a text because if we look at our benches, three MPs have already submitted amendments to include certain things in the list of public interest companies. Like airports, such as the Vukovar port, such as the Slavonian confectionary industry, it is obvious that either you have not drawn up this proposal with sufficient attention or have not consulted enough people in the process, especially because there are no clear criteria but only a sentence of explanation that the list included those companies that have contributed greatly to the development of certain regions and industrial branches. But I wish we had that criterion in more detail, unfortunately we don't. We don't even have that comparison of the criteria, or the list that was before. So that's what we're missing. And three amendments have already been tabled, and the question is, will you respect these amendments? If you won't then you certainly have some criteria to do so. If you want, then you don't have the criteria because it's obvious that some other companies can enter the list on the side. That's what's wrong and I wouldn't really want you to come here and embarrass yourself because there's no detailed analysis and a detailed explanation of why a certain company is there and another company in state property isn't. However, when it comes to public sector companies, it should be said that this is an extremely important area of the Croatian economy that participates in related 80 billion kuna revenues in the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. It's 30% gross social product. The management of state-owned enterprises depends on how Croatian citizens live, depending on whether new values will be created in Croatia, ultimately depends on whether people will work and depend on whether these companies will function and create a new value. The affairs that have rocked the Croatian public in recent years, such as the "Brodosplita" affair, the "Plava" affair, the "Hep" affair in recent times, but the increasingly mentioned affair "Podravka", Croatian highways, Croatian railways, where over 400 managerial contracts are for people who work with a salary of 20 thousand kuna and pile huge losses through INA, Croatian mail losers, Croatian postal banks that need to be recapitalised, a float road to not talk about a whole series of state-owned companies that have shaken and shaken affairs. And not just that. In 2007, their profits were reduced for grants from the state budget at minus 1.3 billion kuna. So, all state-owned enterprises themselves, without grants from the state budget, are operating with a minus of minus 1.3 billion kuna, while in this year 2008, this business result is more negative for an additional 1.4 billion kuna. This means that instead of creating a new value, developing a Croatian economy, creating a profit that in this way should be supported by the state budget, state-owned companies are building huge losses, which is one terrible phenomenon especially in a situation where it should be the generator of economic growth where they participate in the gross social product by 30% and it is definitely not promising. In addition, the state-owned companies have increased employment and recruitment of personnel, and this is something that you can find yesterday, today and the day before yesterday, that every little bit of new employment is coming. Here, let's specifically take public administration. This year, according to some data in the state administration, thousands of people have been employed. Well, it's not like these thousands of people are going to fall by 7% in the year of Croatian economic gross social product, when we face a crisis, our own crisis, above all, and then more imported crisis. It is not likely that these thousands of new people will help Croatia out of the crisis. That's what the problem is, a huge number of new employment that creates... And that's in the World Bank's review for every year a regular benchmark of comparison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every year, the World Bank knocks on its tail and says the number of employees in the country's growing administration and in the country-related enterprises is unsustainable, reducing productivity, increasing labour costs. And all of these things, unfortunately, have neither surfaced nor surfaced that there is no investigative journalism. And I really want to thank them this way for one dedicated and diligent struggle for the Croatian conscience, because if there were no investigative journalists, and I will repeat many of these affairs that have surfaced, they would not have been written about. And politicians sitting on supervisory boards from state secretaries, ministers can sit on two supervisory boards with two options when it comes to affairs. They either don't know, and they don't have time for what I accept or know and approve of. These are the only two options for officials who took part in the management of state-owned companies that have shaken affairs among other things. And how many affairs are going on without knowing about them yet. And in the end, I'm going to say that the SDP and precisely on the basis of this necessity of functioning, the sound functioning of the state-owned companies has been sent through impelation, i.e. They will send an interpretation to the Parliament with clear criteria that state-owned companies have to stick to three-year plans and not that the plans change year by year, to discuss state-owned enterprises here in the Parliament every year. So who is responsible among other things for the functioning of state-owned companies? It cannot be just the Government if it is owned by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If the state audit was sent every year to state firms, not once every three years, because then there might be a number of other irregularities. And finally, pay criteria. On which basis, in certain state-owned companies, certain managers may have such privileges and salaries that are much higher than the president of the state's salary and that of the parliamentary representatives not to speak. People like that have two, three thousand dollars in state-owned companies. And that's what burdens the state budget. I did the analysis. If only they would limit the salaries to the incomes of these people who have higher salaries than the parliamentary representatives at the reception of parliamentarians who are quite decent we would be left in Croatia half a billion kunas more or that money for free textbooks for all children, only with the restrictions of salaries in state services. ... In all the holding rooms, especially HH Holding. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So what happens is that when hiring in state-owned companies, a number of people who will not be happy at all, because because of the restructuring that will come sooner or later, our salaries may have to be reduced by 20 or 30% already this year and one job in the state-owned company is taking ten new jobs on the free labour market. So, ten employees in state-owned companies kidnap a hundred employees on the free labour market, bread out of hand. And that is what we want to say, Croatia must invest in what brings new value, which can increase gross social product and can employ people. Without that, state-run management, management of state-owned companies makes absolutely no sense, and with this and without that data, best said the Croatian Employers' Association's data, which, with optimistic and spare forecasts for 2010, said that 51 000 people would be out of work in 2010. That's the information we have to be disgusted with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41708	Thank you. It is up to the debate of distinguished counterpart Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go, pal Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41709	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. This debate today on these few papers that we have here on the proposal for a decision on a list of companies of special national interest has its own course that, if this were to be watched, they wouldn't think it would happen. However, it is certain that today's debate should be aware whether to tell itself whether this decision is due to the fact that public officials, whether to restrict or reduce the number of possible participations in supervisory committees, or whether they should ask themselves who is responsible for this state property or for these companies of particular national interest. Is that what someone outside this country should be responsible for, or is it someone who has nothing to do with politics or what it should be with, or should it be in some way, a state that is in the most part and the owner of these companies? That is why the dilemma whether it should be state officials who are overloaded, parliamentary representatives, ministers and secretaries etc. or it should be officers in the state apparatus who are professional people or it should be someone outside of it. However, the question of each of us if we have something, so we should probably worry about how it exists, what it does, and how the course of life of such a company is in some way or especially in the family of business. This is why these decision-making criteria are, as has already been said several times, in a very non-transparent way and said, of the particular importance of companies for the Republic of Croatia, that they have economic significance for the region, that they have importance for that branch, with this one adequate data that can be calculated, and that is more than 25% of the shares of the special state, meaning from the government portfolio. It's a data that's like this one, which can be calculated as such. This second one seems to be very small with this reduction from 210 companies to 50 and several companies that these criteria are others, whether they are considered, have not been considered. Unfortunately, however, here I am, and precisely on the initiative and people who live and work in the company "Slavonia fashion confectation" which pointed out that this criterion "Slavonia fashion confection" Osijek is not respected in part of the united state portfolio. It's like this one thing that's visible and that's exactly why this amendment was submitted. However, now if we were to consider these other criteria, it is economic importance for the region, for that branch, etc., I think what is evident is that the company "Slavonia" is not on that list, although it was a society that once had 3,000 employees, which today remained the rudiment of the textile industry Osijek, which had 7 and a half thousand employees and precisely because of that in the textile industry worked a large number of people, it worked especially a large number of women's labour force, 90% of almost female labour force, and just that Slavonia hired 3,000 and more workers. The position where this company is located is particularly important. So I think it's in one of the frequent parts of the city in a place that, I'm afraid, doesn't end tomorrow as other textile industries whose ruins have had malls, such as the BIOTEX example where one company is now located, etc. All of this suggests that you can't just do this one way with a pair of papers like this and a few pages of this material deny what this country and this society has and therefore because it's still a company of national importance because most of the shares and has states. Especially when we look at textile industries, it has already been mentioned here, the textile industry of Croatia is surely disappearing, not only in Slavonia but also in other parts, and at the same time we talked about when we entered NATO that this textile industry will certainly be able to have new jobs, related to the making of uniforms, for this, making such or such clothes and footwear. Therefore, only in one such simple way without thinking and some arguments being thrown off the list is one company, which is actually a state-owned company. They also have attempts and restructuring and need emergency crafts and support. This turns out that the state has given one message, a motherly relationship, so we're left here to think about it and try to bring them back to life, help them, give them advice on how to maintain themselves if you can't keep some bigger finances, and the others in a completely different way of thinking we're firing. And I can tell you this, in these people, and it creates a different picture and I can tell you that it has caused both certain and bad relationships and a sad situation in people who are considered, as well as Slavonia, often in a relationship that is not adequate to what should be given, and it as such. And that's why I finally think that another message from this turnout, that the state is also preparing in some way a bankruptcy and a shut-down of this company whose owner it is that it wouldn't be good to do it like that. And here's why, least of all, I can ask for people who work there and what I've given in the form of this amendment, for this company to be put on the list of special state interests as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41710	Thank you very much. We have one application for replication. Dear colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41711	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I was also, speaking on behalf of the club, trying to make an emphasis on this decision that actually this list of companies that we said were of particular national interest, that this list would not be used for any benefits, for any privileged performance towards state institutions. So he has his own one-time, unique role, exclusively a list of companies where they can be state officials on the Supervisory Board, and those who are not on the list that can't be state officials on the Supervisory Board. Therefore, it would not remain a false impression if some companies had not listed these companies of particular national interest that they were of less concern, than the smaller mara, etc. and the states and their owners. So, all this stuff you said about EMKA Slavonia, I sign it. So, an absolutely important company, important to our area there, feeling and even that textile brand where they've actually been fighting for years for their place on the market, etc. Now, there's one thing that's also going through here in the debate and you said the same thing. He says he's not going to be state officials, he's going to have professional people, so civil servants. I'm the first one who doesn't accept that thesis. So, I believe that most of us state officials, and especially those who behave are directors who are state secretaries, etc., that it is actually the Croatian elite regarding the profession, and with the profession, they also have that dimension of responsibility that sometimes people here who we say are mostly professional and do not have. So people who have great experience working in the state administration, who know how to organize a job, who know what the system of responsibility means, etc. So I can't accept the thesis that we're politicians here like we came from the street without calling, without knowing, like politics is our only interest. On the contrary, I think we've just got most of us on the basis of the profession we've been dealing with as experts into that policy. And that's why I can't accept the thesis that then we politicians need to come out of structures, too, based on this law, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41712	Thank you very much. The answer to my colleague Bodakosh's replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41713	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Kovacevic, I've heard this from you, but what you said in the opening. Unfortunately, though, many may not have heard it, and we are not in the previous one, as it was called. Because precisely because of the material that is very shrub and which is not and which primarily refers to whether officials can be on the supervisory board or cannot be. That seems to be the most important thing. However, it should be more emphasized especially for those who live in these companies and work, we are talking specifically about Slavonia which you also know as well as I do that when these people heard and saw that it was one fiasco for them by thinking exactly what I said. Here we are now being rejected by the state, preparing us for bankruptcy and extinguishing. I don't think that would be good, so here's what I don't know you didn't tell me, you didn't say anything about this 25 percent criterion. It's probably going to be the secretary of state, whether this company, by the way, and these others I've been saying shouldn't go in. The other thing is what I was saying about government officials. I'm just talking in terms of, there's such a hack or I don't know, etc. That it shouldn't be the most important thing that someone who's in the government, I don't know a secretary of state or something that he has to and should be on board. Surely there are people who are willing to do the same work and have a certain expertise. I agree that many of us certainly have the expertise to sit on boards, but then on that, but that's a different story. However, what is important in the supervisory committees should be more responsible. And what was here talking, once you screw something up there, then you certainly shouldn't be a politician anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41714	Thank you very much. And the last application for a hearing, distinguished colleague Nenad Stazic. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41715	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here we have a list of 57 companies of special state interest. We can say it's a list of companies where we can expect affairs. Some already have – Podravka, Autoways, Elektroprivreda, Railways, Brodosplit. Now why are they having these very business affairs? Because the state's attitude towards companies, societies where the state has a heavy property is entirely nakaradam. In fact, they are seen as an election prey, so when elections are won, then these companies are seen as parts of the economy to which politics has the sole right, a winning policy. And then appoints the administrations of such companies as political key. Here, we had an example of Podravka divided between HDZ and HSS. These are HDZ personnel, they're a little higher. These are HSS footage of them being a little less, but these two parties have divided the management of Podravka. While I'm saying this, Minister Polancec is probably holding a press conference and resigning. This is the consequence of this relationship with state-owned enterprises. Because what are these administrations going to do, so-called administrations? What they will do but come to consult with those who brought them there, with whom else. So if HDZ and HSS brought them in, they'll go to HDZ and HSS and ask what to do. And HDZ and HSS will lead from their party central policies in these companies. Well, when HDZ and HSS lead to Podrava politics, then when it is discovered that the job has the State's Attorney's Office, so when crime is discovered, so when those who are arrested say they will start talking then Minister Polancec resigns. And by doing that, it actually proves that everything we're saying is true. He's a responsible person. When power is won, when responsibility is gained for the state and responsibility for state property, then politics says, so of course we'll send the ministers there to the supervisory boards. So who's gonna control it? Well, we're the government that's responsible for the state and who has to control it, because there's no one else to control but us. But when a robbery is discovered in these companies, then that same policy says you same supervisors, those same ministers on the board of directors, so I have nothing to do with it, as far as I'm concerned. "Brodospleta" for example. Vukelic, chairman of the board of directors, is found to rob $6.5.6m, and Vukelic says I could control it. Well, I have no idea what they were doing there. Well, I can't watch every paper in there right now. So when you have to name someone, then the state is very responsible, then the government is very responsible, and when it comes to stealing, then it's not about the authorities. And few can believe that these administrations were working without the knowledge of these supervisory boards and without the knowledge of those ministers and without the knowledge of those politicians who sent their party headquarters there. There's also, of course, the problem with the entanglement of your likeness, party friends, cousins, friends, I don't know who. It's all going to the barbs' system, Luke. Come on, Barba Luka, get me a job. I've done a lot for HDZ. And then Barba Luka responds to that. So he has to pay the man back his debt. He's in charge of HDZ. So where's he going with him? Well, clearly, in state-owned enterprises of particular interest to the state. You know, does the policy that wins power have the right to take care of these companies? Not that she's right, she has an obligation to take care of them. But the way you show that concern today is absolutely surreal. The same policy is whether she will appoint professional people there who will be responsible or send ministers. I don't care. Let him send ministers if he thinks the ministers are responsible enough, or professional enough. Let him send them. But God's people, when the theft is discovered, when corruption is discovered, when bad business is revealed, then there's no debate anymore. Then comes the Minister and the Government, who has chosen such a minister. Because the government has to be responsible for its people. Then there's no extraction. I am for the ruling policy to be responsible for the situation in these companies. I did for it. Because who's going to answer? Who else? And I am for having the right to name people there. But I am God to me and then to those appointments and to their work. What fits today with Polancec's resignation is proof that this same Polancec brought people there and told them what to do. And now the debt comes for payment. Look, Croatian highways, they're afraid of tunnels. And there some company of the Zuzul Brothers gets jobs, five times more paid than you can get on a normal market. The workers of the Croatian highways say so we, the union says, were able to make our workers pay and paint. And then that administration that was brought by politics, HDZ and coalition partners, so who else, then that administration says yes, but look at that Zuzulov firm is still, look, she still said she wouldn't paint those traffic lights, signalling. And that's why it's five times more expensive, because they've made a commitment not to repaint the signal. So they make fun of the public. That if it's not making fun of the public, I don't know what it is. It's like some other performer was going to paint the signal, traffic lights. Reports on the work of public companies are mainly published in the paper, on the cover or in the section of the black chronicle. These are reports on the work of public companies. I think it is a perfectly justified request that the Government, once a year at least in this House, submit a report on the business of these companies. She appointed members of the administration, the centres of political power, they appointed supervisory committees. Let them come before the Parliament and answer for them. Well, it can't go away six million dollars, nobody's answering. Well, that can't be. If you brought these people there, you answer for them. Who else? The government will change. Someone else will come to power. He'll name it, but he'll have to answer. That evading responsibility, that constant extraction, I didn't know, so listen to what I had to do with it, so as far as I'm concerned, it's not working. That's not working. Because it's an attempt to cover up a robbery politically and in fact one position, when I won power and I have the right to rob as many public enterprises as I want and answer no one, which I don't care about. Let's introduce a rule that this chairman of the supervisory board, he was named Vukelic in "Brodosplit", corresponds with his property for that damage or that the HDZ sent there corresponds to party property for that damage. Well, I guess he'll behave a little differently then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41716	We have a report of correction of the quote, Susana Bilić Vardić. Dear colleagues, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41717	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague put out a series of allegations, and I'll fix only one. He said, quote, "This is proof that Polancec brought people to Podravka and ordered them to do what." Comrade Stazić, you know very well that this is not true, because it is true that you cannot give up the legacy of some time, or not some time before democracy in which it was normal for you to suspect, accuse, judge, and, if possible, punish, regardless of the Constitution guaranteed by the government's trio and the role and function of the judicial authorities in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41718	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41719	Fellow Stazic, that the problem is, of course, bringing incompetent people into the company's supervisory boards when it comes to these companies, but it is an even bigger problem if these public companies are not doing their job, then the problem becomes a problem for the citizens of this country. I'm reading right on the portal this morning about 5 o'clock and 15 minutes county center 112 received a tip from workers at Sisak-Caprak Railway Station that a woman's person was hit on the train station. The Pasarel that HZ brought down in Sisak Caprag and left 18 thousand people, old men, children, students to skip 6 or 7 tracks, after 4 years of being funny to myself here, and to ask that this unfortunate pasarel be built talks about the total irresponsibility not only of HZ administration but also of those sent there on behalf of the citizens of this country, to worry, that the public activities of the functions that these companies exist to carry out. This is a question beyond the mere financial business of individual companies and public enterprises in Croatia. This is a question of how these companies function and how they perform their public function for which they are established.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41720	Thank you. Reply to the replica of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41721	It's always just a matter of responsibility for what seems to be, or for what doesn't seem. If they didn't do something and they had to do it, they were also warned, so of course they're responsible. But I repeat, not only those people in the administration, the primary responsibility lies with those who put them there. In the elections you were given the right to do so, the citizens gave you that trust because they believed you would do it honestly and responsibly, that the people you brought there would not steal, that the people you sent there would do what Vidovic was supposed to do. They didn't do it, you brought the wrong people. Who's to blame? It's your fault. And take the burden of your responsibilities once, come before that people and tell them that we made a mistake, we sent our party people because we owed them because we expect them to be a favor, because they're friends, because they're family, because they're acquaintances, because we enjoy power, we enjoy that those we sent there come to us to ask us what to do, and then we're big politicians, the heads of parties, and then we give them directions. And when a robbery is discovered in Podravka, then who asks you who sent them there? And I'm looking at you, Mr. Fristice. And you. As the head of the HSS who had a crucial influence there. This is about responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41722	Exactly the responsibilities of fellow Stazic, which you want to relativize, and when it comes to Podravka, there we missed the ones you sent us. If we'd done that, this wouldn't have happened. Comrade Solic, you're up for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I felt like I wasn't there for the correction. You told your colleague Stazić in your debate that people and responsible people from HSS and HDZ were placed in Podravka. You need to tell the truth here once. There's been enough silence. Tell me, fellow Stazic, which of these people currently under investigation is a member of HDZ and HSS when these people came to Podravka, 2000. In 2000, when you set it up, your government sets it up, we blame HDZ and HSS because there may be guilt that he didn't immediately replace them as soon as he took responsibility for the state. It's HDZ and HSS, but it's your people, and your coalition partners back then. Secondly, you're the last one here in this House that you can talk about morale, which you can talk about non-postism. Why deliberately and consciously bypass Zagreb Holding, 7 billion is missing in Zagreb Holding, 10 years Mr. Stazić SDP runs the city of Zagreb, 10 years. And today it would not have been discovered, and today we would have kept silent, and last night at the city hall we would have kept silent, if the main man of the city of Zagreb hadn't passed the SDP's will to run for president. But not all of it is responsible, you are responsible for robbing the city of Zagreb for 10 years, financing your campaigns, 10 years. And that's exactly why there's no such thing as childcare school, elementary school, there's nothing. It's your fault, SDP, but you're very much getting away with it, and you're turning the blame on others. It's you who know how to manipulate and who can throw all your dirty laundry into someone else's washing machine.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41724	Thank you. Reply to the replica of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41725	So there wouldn't be any silence on this subject to tell the full truth, that those people there had brought ex-government. It is, the coalition power of HSS-A, SDP, HSLS and HSS that's true, but in 2004, these people were under the control of that government, and the optional shares, only in 2004 began to muddle when the USKOK found them only when they were taken over by this coalition government now, the HSS continued to rule together with those people, only then did their robberies begin, only when the policy that had led them there lost power, only when the other policy that had allowed them to rob them, and perhaps triggered them. And just because you're right, Polancec wouldn't resign today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41726	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The representative Stazic injured the 209th article of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because he did not correct me in any word and sentence. He spoke his mind, he spoke as a parrot has been saying for a full year and he has deceived the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41728	Thank you, thank you. Let's finish this. We're done with the motions for discussion, finally Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41729	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, after your comprehensive debate on this point, which was in the sense of establishing a list of companies of special state interest for the Republic of Croatia and concerning Article 11(6). Law to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. So the only purpose of this point was to determine where officials could be present. I just have to say for a moment that in any case this list, which is before you, does not mean that the Republic of Croatia is giving up anyone. The clear property has been established, the Republic of Croatia has its share of ownership and those companies that are not on this list do not deny anyone, and the basis is the law here we are talking about the 2003 Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest which should have been clearly complemented because it was supplemented in 2004, where it was limited to 2 supervisory committees for officials, and now this decision, which is before you the same phallic law of 2003, is trying to reduce the number of companies that were over 200 to these 60s that are before you. That was the only goal of this point. Thank you very much, and I hope we vote it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41730	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41731	Proposal for a decision on a list of companies of particular national interest. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić, representative Dragan Kovacevic and representative Dragutin Bodakoš and representative Petar Mlinarić. I would like to ask Mr Miljenko Pavlovic's representative of the State Secretary's proposal for amendments to be made. First, the representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41732	The government accepts a partial proposal if it would be subject to an amendment that, by the end of the 8th month, it is in the amendment for the report for technical reasons, the shareholders cannot submit reports by the end of the 5th month.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41733	Please, this is how we vote. So the government has accepted in this form. In the form that she did not accept, I am putting this amendment of Mr. Mrsic's representative to the vote. Who is to this amendment that the Government does not accept in this form? One. He didn't get the necessary majority. Secondly, Amendment One, Amendment of MP Dragan Kovacevic to, amendment one relating to regular number 57 and then extension 58 to 65.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41734	The government accepts fully.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41735	This amendment has been accepted. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And Mr. Dragutin Bodakoš's amendment to, therefore, that amendment relating to the confection d.d. Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41736	The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept this amendment from those criteria set out in the debate and does not fully meet two or more criteria. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41737	Mr. Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41738	So I'm surprised by the secretary of state, since this one where IPK Osijek has been accepted as a company has just been accepted, and as far as Slavonia is concerned, the fashion conflict d.o.o. Osijek, I think, in that part about the government portfolio, and we don't know what else you said that it doesn't satisfy whether it's tied up in order for Slavonia to be abolished, that the textile industry should be eradicated or I don't know what the reasons are. With the fact that in the textile industry of Slavonia confection that once had over 3,000, today it works 300 mostly female labour forces and through this way of machining relations with this society that is owned by... 79% of the government portfolio, the question arises as to why this should be treated as such. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we should also accept the textile industry as one that was significant in Osijek once, and today it seems to have been left on, not to say to the whole state and from the whole society that. And I'm only asking myself what's going to happen to those women who work in such a textile industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41739	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of Representative Petar Mlinarić, which refers to the regular number of 58 ports of Vukovar, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41740	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we accept this amendment, since all ports in the proposal should also be the river port of Vukovar. We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41741	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on a list of companies of particular national interest. I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. The result? The motion for a decision was adopted by a majority of 77 votes in favour and one vote abstention, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41742	Moving to point 12. This is - Report on the audit of financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives for 2008 is submitted by the State Audit Office. The State Audit Office submitted this report on the basis of Article 11. State audit law and Article 20 The law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates. You received the document by mail. That's what the government was getting at, we have her opinion. The document was discussed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. We also received a report from the board. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms. Šima Krasic, chief state auditor. Please take your word for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41743	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here we are, finally, coming up on what we did the second time, reviewing the financial operations of political parties to present in the Parliament. I say we present because it is very difficult to talk about here, but this year I find it much simpler because it is less irregular because it is parliamentary political parties and only those financial reports are submitted to them. Since the beginning of 2007, the acquisition and availability of funds for the work of political parties of independent lists and candidates, financial operations and supervision of financial operations have been prescribed by the new Law on the financing of political parties. Since surveillance includes audit and inspection activities, the office's competence has been assessed to carry out audits of financial reports and business involving part-time work and the internal organisation of planning and financial operations, financial reports and final accounts, as well as the revenues and expenditures of political parties and independent representatives who, parliamentary parties and representatives in the Assembly, as well as any other audits of so far. The audits of financial reports and business of political parties and independent parties were carried out in the same way and according to the procedures laid down by the State Audit Act and... standards and codes of professional ethics and state auditors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should be pointed out here that this is a little bit more control, since if the Law on the financing of political parties is also applied, which said that there should be reviewing and income and that there should be a review of the political parties, as a rule, we are doing a review of the complete documentation in order to achieve one objective that we all are tasked with spending the financial resources in accordance with laws and other regulations. The objectives of the review were to verify the truthfulness and credibility of the financial reports. Check the application of laws and regulations relating to the organisation and financial accounting operations. Check the correctness of the acquisition of revenue from the budget, voluntary contributions, membership fees and other sources. Check the correctness of the implementation of the expenditure, i.e. whether the funds were used exclusively to achieve the objectives of the programme and the statutes of political parties? I check the correctness of the execution of other transactions. For the purpose of achieving those objectives, the audit procedures shall include financial statements, accounts, accounts, asset lists, liabilities, income acquisitions, cost execution and publication of data on websites. Donors who are also suppliers of audit entities financed by public funds have also been checked. This report also includes individual comprehensive reports on the audit carried out by authorised state auditors for 11 parliamentary parties and 4 independent representatives, with a total of 292 p.m. We deliver complete reports for the simple reason that Article 19 is. The law on the financing of political parties, and here we give a summary of all, said political parties and independent MPs are obliged to publish certain data themselves, final accounts, all revenues, donors, execution of expenditure. So everything is already on the web pages of political parties and independent lists that we control. The revenues of 11 political parties amounted to 114 million 95 thousand 456 kuna. The state budget generated 52 million 325 thousand 449 or 45.9%. From the budget of local units 33 million 890 thousand 150 kuna or 29.7, we see most of the revenue coming from the state budget. The fees amount to 4 million 895 thousand 626, donations 11 million 748 982 and other sources of revenue 11 million 234 549 kuna. Also spent for expenditures are 112 million 242 thousand 852 kuna, for employees 19 million 096 342 or 17%, material expenditures including promotions and other 77 million 662 126 or 69.2%, depreciation million 681 thousand 395 or 1.5%, financial expenditures 5 million 611, donations to other 4 million 646 732 and other expenditures 3 million. The total revenues of parliamentary political parties amounted to 114 and 112,242 expenditures and an excess of revenue over expenditures reached a million 852 604 thousand. Income of independent deputies, four of them is a million 404 756. There's a majority of revenue from the state budget or a million 403 thousand 225 that's 99%. Other sources are a very small amount and a thousand 529 kuna. The expenditure of independent deputies is worth a million 186 thousand 83 thousand for employees, as some representatives also pay bookkeepers, accountants, employees 75 thousand 053, material expenditures 515 thousand 217, for depreciation 11 million 176, financial expenditures 6 thousand 238, and donations or aid 578 thousand 399. The independent MPs also made the difference between income and expenditure and the surplus income is 218,000,673 kuna. The most significant areas in which audits have identified irregularities and failures in political parties relate to planning, means in relation to business, income acquisition and expenditure resolution, and independent representatives have not identified irregularities and failures that would affect the truthfulness and reality of financial reports. In accordance with the audit standards, the usual practice of state audit institutions based on established facts is expressed opinions on financial reports and on the business of political parties and independent representatives. For political parties, six unconditional opinions and five conditional opinions have been expressed, and for all independent MPs an unconditional opinion has been expressed. I must stress here that here, in the review of the financial operations of political parties, independent lists and candidates, the role of the state audit has also taken place. It is our job to help to use funds from the budget in accordance with the law economically, rationally and according to their programmes. So last year there were a lot more irregularities that the parties had generally acted on these irregularities and are now very few, so the revision also achieved that basic task. Because our task is not to do but to help use the funds in accordance with the regulations and laws that are there. And that's where this came about. I have to say that if the other audit entities were to act on the findings that we give so that the full review would have the effect of the way it was. I'm very happy with that, but we'll try to make it better. Here I will just point out one thing that we now have one big job, one big task that stems from the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates of mayors, mayors and mayors. It said in the Law on the financing of political parties to apply regulations to local units, it means independent candidates, MPs. The election committee gave an interpretation that they must open their accounts, that they should submit a provisional report seven days before the start and finally after the elections have been completed, the final report on financial transactions. And it's said they have to have all this data. We are on our way, and it was also said that executive reports should be submitted to election committees that are obliged to publish them in local means of communication. We realized that it was still in the locals that everyone saw and that it was quite enough for the public. However, this leads to our having the responsibility to look at these financial reports, and this is where we collect data. We've come to the data that we have a thousand and ninety-eight candidates, that not one third of these final reports have been published, that so far we've collected a thousand 481 reports and we're going to give data to this Parliament. We asked the electoral committees to provide us with the other 460 data so that this Parliament and the public would be familiar with the total cost of selecting these locals now. It's probably going to result in some kind of demand that we do it a little bit differently, that there's an office in that part. There's not much of us, there's not enough of us, there's a reduction in the number of auditors because they go to other jobs so they can do their jobs on a regular basis. It's just doing the information because that information will come before this Parliament when we do those jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41744	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished colleague Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, fellow Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41745	Mr. Vice President, the state's chief auditor with the deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to take a quick look at this state audit report. In fact, modern democratic political systems are based on political parties. For their functioning, the law prescribes between other sources of funding and supervision of their financial operations, and thus our Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates regulates the acquisition of income, the ban on financing and credit, supervision of financial operations and criminal provisions, so these are the most important parts of this law on which the state audit is based. Political parties can obtain income from membership fees, donations, sales, propaganda material, assets, state budget, local unit budgets and the like. And the financing of political parties must be in line with the party's own programme and the supervision of their operations shall be carried out by the State Audit and the Tax Administration. So the parties are obliged to report to the public their business in a legally prescribed manner and the State Audit is right through their reports that we are discussing today also does so. We are actually discussing today the second audit report of the State Audit and their report shows progress among most political parties. With the first revision, only one party actually got an unconditional opinion. This revision covers 11 parliamentary parties and has received an unconditional opinion from as many as 6 parties. Incomes dominated by revenues from the state budget and units of local self-government have been audited. One out of 114 million kunas participate with 86 million or over 75%. We appreciate that it is good for political parties to make most of their incomes from tax revenues in this time, so from the budget which states what local units are doing, because we are still developing both the parliamentary system and the party system. The report states that the most significant areas in which irregularities have been identified related to planning, accounting, revenue and expenditure, that after the first business audit, when, as I said, only one party had an unconditional opinion, significant progress has been made in the management of the business as well as the fact that 6 parties have received unconditionally and 5 parties have conditional opinion. Irregularities relate, as the State Auditor said, to the creation of an annual work programme that is not in line with the financial plan, then to the control of accounting documents by the legal representative, on the list of assets, on membership fees and donations, on the account of depreciation and others such as the tax and contribution bill. For some of these irregularities are prescribed by the Law on the financing of political parties and certain fines in financial amounts, and will be seen behind this audit finding whether any of the political parties will also pay the financial penalty. The SDP has actually acted on all the orders and recommendations from the previous audit report. The State Audit recommendations for our party were both instructive and useful, as we have already received an unconditional opinion in this second audit report for 2008. The State Audit report on the business of parliamentary political parties and independent representatives is actually information to the public about how political parties operate and what they spend their income on. This is information on how much the spending of political parties is in line with their political programmes, as well as the statements of their politicians when it comes to the programme and the financing of certain activities that these parties are carrying out. The SDP Club will accept the State Audit Report on the audit of political parties and independent representatives for 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41746	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Davor Huška. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41747	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Chief State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept the report on the audit of the financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives for 2008, and from the presentation that follows it will be clear why such a decision will be made. In the first place, I would like to point out that we have the usual quality and professionally prepared report of the State Audit Office. This time for a relatively new area handled by the state audit, which is the financial reports of political parties and independent representatives. I say a relatively new area whose work is controlled by the State Audit Office because this is just another report on the audit carried out, and in accordance with the provision of Article 20. Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates from 2007. That law regulates the way and conditions of obtaining funds for the work of political parties and the supervision and transparency of the acquisition and use of those funds, and the same provisions relating to voluntary contributions, donations, the prohibition of financing and concessions, and supervision and financial operations shall apply accordingly to independent lists and candidates. The law stipulates that the supervision of the financial operations of political parties is carried out precisely by the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance in the first half of each calendar year for the previous year which we have just seen from this report. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Audit, the jurisdiction of the Office refers to the revision of the financial reports and business of political parties, independent lists and candidates covered by the first part of the work and the internal organisation of political parties. Furthermore, accounting business and planning, cash, income and expenditure, as well as overall business of political parties and independent representatives. The objectives of the review were to verify the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports, to further verify the application of laws and other regulations relating to the organisation and financial and accounting operations. Then verify the correctness of the acquisition of income, verify the correctness of the execution of expenditure, i.e. whether the financial resources were used exclusively to achieve the objectives set by the programme and the statute and ultimately verify the correctness of the execution of other transactions. I believe, according to everything contained in this report, that the objectives of the revision have been successfully achieved. The opinion of the audit shall be expressed in a standardised form in accordance with INTOSAI audit standards and may be unconditionally as the best assessment, further conditional, unfavourable and abstentional. The revision includes political parties that had representatives in the Croatian Parliament during 2008, which are, to remind you, the Croatian Democratic Union, the Croatian People's Party, Liberal Democrats, the Croatian Peasant Party, the Croatian Social and Liberal Party, the Croatian Party of Rights, the Croatian Party of Pensions, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the Istrian Democratic Assembly, the Independent Democratic Serb Party, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the Party of Democratic Action of Croatia. The audit also covers financial reports for 2008 of the following independent representatives: Mrs Zdenka Chuhnil, Mr Nazif Memedia, Mr Furi Radin and Mr Denesh Soja. I believe that, in particular in this report, there is something to be said about revenue, which, according to the provisions of the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates which political parties can obtain from membership fees, voluntary contributions, publishing activities, the sale of propaganda material, the organisation of various party events and the state budget, which we have seen as the largest source of income, the budget of units of local and regional self-government, of property owned and other incomes. During 2008, political parties made revenues totalling 114 million 95 000 and 456 kuna, and according to the financial reports, the total revenues of independent representatives for 2008 amounted to a million 404 thousand 756 kuna, which relate to revenues from the state budget for regular work and revenue from financial assets. I do not want to go into the details of all individual reports and findings on this occasion, but it should be concluded that the business of political parties and independent representatives has been improved compared to the previous year 2007, so the opinions of the Office for State Audit are much better. The financial reports and business of political parties for 2008 have been presented with 6 unconditional and 5 conditional opinions. I think we should point out here the parties that got the best grade in this report. So, unconditional opinion. It is the Croatian Democratic Union, the Croatian Peasant Party, the Croatian Party of Rights, the Istrian Democratic Assembly, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the Democratic Action Party of Croatia. The conditional opinions on financial reports and business are expressed for the following parties. It is the Croatian People's Party Liberal Democrats, the Croatian Social Liberal Party, the Croatian Party of Retired, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja and the Independent Democratic Serb Party. Financial reports and the business of all independent representatives for 2008 have been given unconditional opinions. Finally, with a congratulations to all who have earned unconditional opinions, we expect and hope that other political parties will also make additional efforts in their business and financial reports to address the irregularities observed. And I repeat once again that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will accept the full report on the audit of financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives for 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41748	Thank you very much, colleague Hushka. And the third club that applied for the debate, that is, on behalf of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grčić. Here's a colleague of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41749	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished chief state auditors, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me first of all, on behalf of the Croatian Peasants' Party Club, thank the State Office for the review of the arrival and financial review of the party's operations, as well as the shown failures in our work. Although the first report on the second arrival of the State Audit Office is a major help in removing the gap, more importantly, this is a major contribution to changing the perception of our public on the work of political parties. We believe that the perception of the public over the coming years will change significantly in a positive sense on the work of political parties, which will largely contribute to the belief and future findings of the audit, because I am convinced that there will be fewer and fewer shortcomings in them each year. The audit established in its review a certain degree of true, objective, financial business of the party in order to verify the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports, as well as the regularity of income acquisition and expenditure regularity. As we expected progress in the party's orderly financial operations in 2008 compared to the 2007 findings. The unconditional passage from the business auditor speaks of reduced business irregularities. One of the reasons for carrying out the audit and determining the use of financial resources exclusively for the implementation of the party's work programme based on the party's statutes. In the debate, we will point out only some specific examples without the intention of justifying some of the failures. And that is why we have to ask ourselves some questions such as the political party's work programme, which results in how constant it is and how often it is subject to constant and frequent changes. The political party's work programme must not be seen as a programme for the work of a non-profit association of citizens or a sports association in which the event calendar is a designated place, time and competition participants, and therefore the necessary financial resources can be provided more precisely. The political party's work programme largely assumes possible events over the year and can be drawn up, but also major deviations from the programme are possible. The programme in question does not have to be achieved because of certain political circumstances and other unforeseen social events that the political party cannot influence. In such circumstances, it is clear that the findings of the State Audit Office will also indicate certain irregularities. Because the costs generated under the work programme were spent on something other than planned, or spent in accordance with the new need. What are these situations? First of all, these are the extraordinary elections of municipalities, the city or the county. Which the political party can put into its programme, because in over 550 municipalities and cities there are certain processes that often lead to the need to hold early elections as a result of certain circumstances. This example shows that the party's work plan depends on a number of elements which cannot be predicted and which cannot be affected because the work plan in our country is not a mere collection of certain events to which the financial resources can be planned, which means the political party's work programme is nevertheless a specific programme and is in a way subject to permanent changes, and I am convinced that these facts will also be respected by the State Audit Office. The public perception is that political parties are corrupt and that corruption is largely taking place in political parties. My intention is to point out one detail of the findings where we have made a certain failure, and it refers to the full payment for the monthly membership fee of only 2 and a half kuna. It is clearly seen here that the cost of the payment of the payment of the payment is greater than two-and-a-half kuna itself, and it is irrefutable that this amount cannot be a source of corruption. The third failure to show us the failure of the monuments, the failure of the monuments to Stjepan Radic, built in the city of Zagreb owned by HSS, i.e. as a basic means of work. The creation and setting of monuments was financed by the party's membership, placed a monument on the public surface of the citizens of the city of Zagreb, as well as citizens of the entire Republic of Croatia. We believe that the monument recording process should not be the same as other basic means of working, such as computers, furniture, computers or other. I'm talking about a detail from the 2007 report. And this is an example that speaks of specificities in the work of political parties, which I believe in the next findings of the state audit will take into account and take into account the evaluation of the work of political parties and thus contribute to the perception of citizens' views on the work and action of political parties. The reports produced by the party provided an accurate and true and reliable overview of the selection of funds and revenue and expenditure, thus meeting the conditions laid down in the Accounting Regulation as well as other legal regulations. We in Croatia have removed the shortcomings mentioned in the audit findings, and we are convinced that these shortcomings in the next reports will be even less. We at HSS believe that citizens have the right to know how we manage our money, because in this principle, the principle of a good master will affect and the spending of money by our taxpayers tomorrow. And we hope that public perception in the work and business of political parties will change in a positive direction. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the review report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41750	Thank you very much, fellow Greek. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to individual applications. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. He's gone. Then he loses his right to argue. And the second application is distinguished colleague Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41751	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the state's chief auditor with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues. These reports on the audit of political parties, the business of political parties and independent representatives are of particular importance to me, primarily because political parties spend, as we know, public money and taxpayers of course have the right to know whether they do so in a legitimate way. In 2008, the revenues of 11 parliamentary political parties whose business was subject to state audit amounted to 114 million kuna. With as many as three quarters of that money, so out of 4 kuna, 3 kuna came from the budget, 46% of the revenues achieved were alluded to from the state budget and another 30% from the budget of local units. An even greater dependence on taxpayers' money is evident in independent MPs. Namely, the independent representatives, four of them, had a 10-fold less income than it was for political parties, so they were revenueing somewhere around 1.4 million kuna, with almost the total amount of such funds being achieved right from the state budget. As the State audit assessed the financial operations of political parties and independent representatives. Of the 11 revised political parties, 6 received unconditional opinion, while 5 parties received a conditional assessment and already saw one significant progress since we know that only one political party received an unconditional opinion in 2007. In 2008, independent representatives received unconditional opinions. What needs to be praised right now is the fact that the two largest political parties that have more than two-thirds of the total financing of parliamentary political parties have received unconditional opinions. It is obvious, therefore, that things are going better, and this includes data on the number of orders and recommendations which the Office of State Audit requires political parties to remove certain irregularities that are identified in the revision process. In 2007, the audit gave 63 such a warrant, and in 2008, only 20, noting that as many as 6 of these mandates went, so we can say almost every third, went to the address of one of the same political parties. It's about HSLS. It is interesting that the same party received the highest number of such orders in 2007, even 11 of them, with only a small number of orders being executed, while, unfortunately, it still did not act, or the procedures of removing these irregularities are ongoing. On the other hand, and when it comes to this, it is worth noting that two major political parties in 2008 did not receive a single order or recommendation to remove irregularities, and this actually speaks of their seriousness and their responsibility at the disposal of Croatian taxpayers' money, so Croatian citizens and their will to edit their finances and make them transparent. Independent MPs received a total of 6 orders and recommendations in 2007, and all of them did, resulting in only one order for correction of irregularities being issued in 2008. All of this information I presented in my debate points to one major educational importance of the State Audit, resulting in a significant reduction in the number of irregularities and illegalities in the financial business of most political parties, with the exception of several of them still a tough nut. One word began to achieve the purpose of the adoption of the Law on the financing of political parties and independent representatives, which is more order in the finances of political parties, more transparency at the disposal of Croatian citizens' money, and ultimately all of this should be gained by more trust and better perception of political parties by Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41752	Thank you very much to your esteemed colleague. Does the Proposer's representative want a final address? You got it. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41753	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'm glad we're with this report, I'm pleased, but, yes, and every comment you make, every suggestion you make, especially Mrs... discuss how they repeat themselves, we could use it. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Because we always try to apply it and improve our way of doing it. For example, if you repeat your findings, why not give a second opinion now, we have now taken it, if someone repeats it, means you can no longer get a conditional opinion but get a second opinion. So here I thank you today. I would like to point out here today that this means a lot to us, my colleagues from the European Union, with whom we are also on the Contact Committee, a little envious of us because most of them cannot carry out a review of political parties. Most of the audits, and even those that were our mentors from the UK, don't do, don't do, do some other committees sort of get it right, so for our public, I think a lot. As for the revisions of those we do for the mayors and mayors, it's one big, huge job, but I think it's also very important to the public, but we've made a lot of efforts to inform the Parliament so that the Parliament can present these costs to the public. And the only thing I have to say is that my number of employees is down, and I've got like everybody else, you can't get a job, so every year we've hired up to 10 new employees, so we've kind of trained them. I hope that in the next period we can do that, thank you again for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41754	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-30-0.u41755	We move on to the report on the audit of financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives for 2008. The applicant is the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home parliamentary working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: the 2008 report on the audit of financial reports and the business of political parties and independent representatives is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was adopted unanimously with 78 votes.
