ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42743	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Before us is the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance. The delegations of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia met in two circles in the first round in Zagreb in May 2006, and in Armenia in March 2007. During the conclusion of this contract applied... the model contracts for the organisation of economic cooperation and development, as well as all other contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't change these contracts, but we just have to confirm them, because they have to answer on our side and on the side of Armenia, in one letter entirely. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42744	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HDZ, Madam Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42745	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community accepts the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax. Since its independence, the Republic of Croatia has concluded 45 contracts to avoid double taxation, and negotiations are under way to conclude new contracts with a number of states. The signing of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax is necessary because of all activities the Republic of Croatia is taking to increase the degree of mutual economic cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia. In fact, in bilateral meetings, the Armenian side showed a special interest in infrastructure projects that Croatian companies could carry out in Armenia, especially in road construction. The profession is also shown for the transfer of Croatian... in the development of Armenian tourism, and for cooperation in the field of food, pharmaceutical and military industries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to stress this occasion that five agreements are currently in the process of agreeing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Armenia. Some of them are a contract on trade and economic co-operation, and a contract on the promotion and protection of investments. In early September of this year, a Croatian-Armenian Economic Forum was held in Zagreb where the importance of establishing and developing economic ties between the two countries was particularly stressed. It is also important to say that the trade between Croatia and Armenia last year was slightly less than a million dollars. Croatia exported food products, medicines, textile products to Armenia, and this year turbo jet engines and iron products, while the most imports of stone and processed stone, as well as clothing products. This law regulates ways to avoid double taxation of income and profits. Article 4 of the Treaty sets out the definition of residents, which avoids double taxation of Croatian residents. Taxes to which this contract applies in Croatia are a special income tax, income tax, and income tax tax, and any other addition that is collected on one of those taxes. In Armenia, it's a profit tax, and income tax. The contract allows Croatian construction and similar companies not to pay profit tax in the Republic of Armenia if these works last less than 6 months. Taxing profits from the business of the state... the residence of the company, except in the case of the existence of a permanent establishment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, Croatian airlines and maritime companies carrying out the transport of goods or passengers between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia will be allowed to pay taxes on profits achieved exclusively in the Republic of Croatia. The contract further lowers passive income rates compared to the existing rates prescribed by domestic laws, so that dividends are taxed at a rate of 10%, as well as interest, while copyright interest is taxed at a rate of 5%. There are also ways to eliminate double taxation as well as equal treatment with contracting countries' societies in various tax situations. The joint agreement process is an opportunity for any problem of double taxation to be negotiated directly, which contributes to the acceleration of problem resolution, and an article on the exchange of information is an effective means of combating tax avoidance. Cooperation between Croatia and Armenia is possible in various economic branches, from information technology to which the importance is particularly relevant in Armenia to the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, agriculture, construction, textile industries and infrastructure works in the construction of railway roads and nuclear power plants. The conclusion of such mutual state contracts strengthens and promotes economic co-operation between the two countries. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club supports the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42746	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42747	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a standard model of contracts to avoid double taxation according to the model proposed by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation, or the United Nations, and often we have colleagues and colleagues like this on our bench, and the Croatian People's Party Club has warned on several occasions to ask you to receive a small supplement besides this stereotype which we believe would really help discuss such proposals. Namely, what we're looking for, I'm going to say it again, I don't know which time. We asked to see what these contracts really meant. We're curious about when it comes to a particular country to see what economic co-operation is with that country, in this case, Armenia. What companies do business with Armenia, where these companies operate, what kind of goods traffic, imports, exports of Croatia – Armenia, which are the potential potential of future economic cooperation, or what areas to expand to that economic co-operation, how many state secretaries of our citizens live and work there, how many of their citizens live and work, these are data that would certainly help us to see, in fact, what bilateral cooperation with the state you propose and the Government suggests that we actually accept such an agreement. I think it should be your obligation, we really don't know which way we're asking you to prepare us every time, or at least in that opening part other than those four words you said. Not that we Parliamentarians are asking each other what we're really talking about. We would also ask you to answer why the emergency procedure, for years we haven't signed such an agreement, now suddenly an emergency procedure. IS this contract ratified by Armenia, and now we are in a hurry to make it clear that it would not be rude for them to wait for us for a long time, so let us know as well. Furthermore, it seems to us that although it is normal to go with copy – paste technology given that it is standard contracts, it seems to me that we sometimes go a little too far in this technology and I will read you a sentence: "It will also be possible for Croatian airlines and maritime companies carrying out the transport of goods or passengers between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia to pay taxes on the profits achieved exclusively in the Republic of Croatia". Armenia we know is not a maritime country, Armenia does not even have the possibility to reach it from the Black Sea, I suppose it means integrated transport by land and sea route, so it would be good to know what kind of combined modes of transport our shipping companies are involved in in this segment of clearly that seaport, which ports they are coming from, and from which ports they then transport by land road to Armenia, here our goods or these world goods, etc. So it seems to us that we've made a few rough misdemeanors here, not by explaining to our parliamentary deputies what this really is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42748	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42749	Good afternoon, Honorable President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Confirmation of the Treaty on Double Taxation of the Republic of Croatia with Armenia is one in a series of contracts that are certainly necessary with any country with which we have even capillary economic cooperation, one of these countries is certainly Armenia, perhaps in the future these things are on a higher trade in goods and money. However, what is to be said when it comes to burdens, especially tax burdens, income tax, above all, which is a burden on labour, then it should be said that the European Union puts before it the unification of the tax system as one of the main challenges, because without the uniformity of tax policy there is no simplicity of business on the territory, in the field of the European Union, especially where trade between Member States is the largest. What also worries and worries about the year-to-year and Croatian citizens is the tax burden on salaries, i.e. the tax burden on labour. I will quote what Djuro Popiac said in 2009, he said employers have been demanding for years a reduction in high-level giving to the state, which would increase workers' satisfaction and competitiveness. According to the 2009 World Bank study, the long-term growth of the standard of living in Croatia has been questioned if important reforms, labour markets and the public sector are not taken, and what should be said that the KPMG study put on average means that in 2009, Croatia put into the world top of the tax burden for relatively high wages. We are the world's freshmen right behind Slovenia. What is also worrying is that we can observe a few things that additionally burden Croatian citizens, which is that for an individual without children and a 10% tax rate at a minimum gross salary of 2814 kuna, the tax wedge is 34%, that is a total tax burden, it increases to 42% by 7700 kuna, and for a double average gross salary reaches 49% after the check rises to 58% for relatively high wages. So Croatia has, among countries in the region and in particular transition countries, one of the biggest tax burdens of work, which is definitely bad for economic growth and competitiveness. Here's the thing, for example. With us, the tax wedge is a total tax burden higher than in Slovakia, which develops faster in Poland, which develops more rapidly by a few percent. What should be noted when it comes to tax burdens on labour as one of the most important tax burdens that we also consider the health insurance tax rate to be one of the highest in Europe. And we need to think in the direction and we need to make necessary reforms that are not only public administration reforms, but labour discharges. Two things are crucial, a tax charge is needed and property tax is to be taxed. Because the immobilized property serves nothing and it is one that can generate economic growth if the tax burden is properly directed. It's unacceptable for someone to have three weekends without paying a big tax on three weekends. It is unacceptable that someone has a building land or agricultural land that keeps it speculative, and that nothing is happening on that land, that this land does not develop space and that this land does not create new jobs. It is necessary to change the tax system in the Republic of Croatia, to reduce the burdens on work, to increase property taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42750	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42751	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked earlier if I missed the topic or given the exposure of my previous colleague and didn't mention the name Armenia, but the point of Armenia is the agreement in progress. Right? And you did, okay. So I said, if we hadn't accidentally started on the budget, I don't know, but it would have been a while ago. Fellow Members and colleagues, here we have before us the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia, etc. Not to waste precious time. Of course the HDSSB club will support this bill. But as someone noticed, it seems to me that Mr. Doric is still getting materials on one and the same mold, one and the same way written, and then this sea is bound to a land that has no sea is a bit of a strange formulation in these materials. Furthermore, in any case, in the case of such proposals, a short one should go down on the country with which we sign the contract. Because I believe that many, and I don't want to offend anyone, and here maybe they don't distinguish Armenia and Azerbaijan, etc. But I wouldn't want to go in there so I wouldn't hurt anyone or have proof of that. The draft law is put in the Parliament by emergency procedure, although it says here in Article 1 of page 3 that the contract was signed in Ervan on 22 May 2009, so more than half a year. So it's not clear to me that this emergency procedure, although since then we might be able to make a hundred times this proposal of the Treaty-Confirmation Act, is it here that I don't think anyone will mind, because it seems to me that with what we've already said, it's quite concise, quite clearly listed everything that this proposal for a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia refers to. Well, when we haven't written a word about Armenia, we have to say that Armenians are one of Europe's oldest nations almost on the border with Asia, that they're old Christian people, starting with Bible Noah and Ararad Mountains and beyond. That's it. It would not be bad if we wrote a few things in these proposals of the law and not only about these historical facts, but also about the economic situation, the state of culture, sports and all other views of the Armenian society of the Armenian state, the political situation, etc. Not only in Armenia, but also in the surrounding areas of the relatively small country in the far southeast of the European continent. So, when reading this proposal for a contract, then you can see what it's applicable to, and really what I've looked at and read about is really comprehensive in all areas, so it's also about taxes, real estate income, profits from business, international traffic, related societies, dividends, interest rates, even copyrights, income from estrangement of property, income from non-permanent work, fees to management members, about artists, athletes, pensions, state students or exchange of students, professors, etc. So, all that stands for, it's all, but me and the HDSSB are all about having one escort in one and the general and narrow sense of the state, and here we have soon, and it seems to me that Indonesia and the proposal of the Treaty on Confirmation of the Treaty with Indonesia come to the tables, so here are those 45 countries of which a colleague from the HDZ has already concluded a double taxation agreement with me, I think that in the future one proposal would be that in the sense and I join Mr. Doric to get one piece of information about a country with which such a contract is signed. And this emergency procedure is really a little weird, because the contract was signed in Yerevan six months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42752	Thank you. And finally, Secretary of State Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42753	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me just say, the trade in goods with Armenia is very small. Last year was about a million dollars. And why the emergency procedure? I have also mentioned earlier that these international contracts cannot, as a rule, be changed and complemented by the text of the international contract. So we can't change him for that. As before each time, it is proposed to unite the first and second readings. Because I'm telling you here there's no change in text, and that's what we'll see when this third point comes. Any change is, we have to change the contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42754	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42755	For a gentleman from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is not about changing the contract if this refers to what I said and Mr Doric but rather about a small contribution to our Croatian which can be explained, to explain the state with which we sign the contract. Of course it's the same one that was signed in Yerevan this time. But I'm saying, in one small attachment that would say little about the state of Armenia, Indonesia or any other state. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42756	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42757	We will now discuss several final discussions on some legal proposals. Final draft law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Armenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income avoidance. Emergency procedure. The Proposer is the Government. Please, let's get on with it. I am voting on this final draft of the law. The result? With 86 votes in favour and four abstentions, this law has been passed. We should follow those who are abstentions, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42758	We move to - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, first reading, P.Z. No. 463 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42759	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me briefly present the most important changes, i.e. what is the most important proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. So first of all, it should be pointed out that there is a alignment with the new Budget Act that came into force this year. In this context, in fact, Articles 52 to 82 are actually deleted from the existing Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. The amendments to Articles 87 and 88 also harmonize the text of articles with the provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the provisions of the Budget Act and with the provisions of the Law on State Audit. As regards other amendments, the amendments to Article 89 should be made. This law regulates the responsibility of the owner, but also the user of the business space that has set up machines for fun games contrary to the law, and prescribes a safeguard of the permanent withdrawal of the entertainment machine, of course by the power of decision in the event of the illegal placing of a machine in a business space, or a temporary measure is proposed to prohibit the operation of an object where an offence has been committed. Also, in Article 95 of the Law, she failed to make a commitment to municipalities, so not only to cities but also to municipalities to publish decisions on the introduction of cuts, income tax in "The People's Journal". These amendments actually correct this error by proposing additions to the article where both cities and municipalities on income tax, so they must publish those decisions in "National Journals", and also stipulating that the decision in question is made as a special decision, either separate from the decision of the city and the municipality on the introduction of other city and municipal taxes published in the official reports of the units of local self-government. As regards the other amendments, they are, in the largest part, fully linked to changes to certain forms of tax, so that the addition of Article 6 provides for the exemption from the payment of inheritance tax and the gift if, on donated or inherited movement, another tax is paid to exclude the possibility of double taxation of the same legal transaction through two different taxes. In addition, Article 14 has been proposed to exempt them from paying inheritance taxes and gifts from former mates when they regulate their property relations. As regards taxation or taxation on road motor vehicles, Articles 17 and 20 indicate the date of 31 March as the date of establishment of the vehicle’s ownership or the date of designation of the vessel’s ownership for the purpose of producing the vessel’s taxes. Furthermore, the amendment of Article 26 provides for the exemption from the payment of automatic taxes and for darts to encourage the development of this sport, which of course becomes more popular and more mass, but of course the exemption is exclusively related to the adequate stamps of the alliance. Finally, the additions of Article 38 of the Law create an obligation to exchange data and official records of cities and municipalities to determine taxes on holiday homes when the tax authority is a tax administration rather than a unit of local self-government. Article 42 provides that the tax on companies belongs to the city budget or to the municipality where the seat of the legal or registered natural person is established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42760	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in a moment, we will interrupt the debate on this point to inform you that at 12 o'clock, we will have an addition to the agenda, so I ask the clubs to gather representatives anyway so that we can complete the agenda. Secondly, the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs. Gordana Sobol, sent a proposal for a committee to read today's plenary session on 25.11. a statement marking the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. That statement would be next. "Today on November 25th, everywhere in the world is marked as the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women and this year is particularly important because it represents the 10th anniversary of the United Nations declaration that day. Violence against women and girls takes many forms and is not limited to any culture, region and country or any specific group of women. In private or public life, it endangers rights, freedom, health, quality of life, and in some cases women's lives, regardless of their nationality, age or social status. It has exceptional social and economic consequences and reduces the contribution women can make to the development, peace and security and protection of human rights." This is an excerpt from the call made by the Interparliamentary Union, whose member is also the Croatian Parliament, which in parliaments around the world want to initiate concrete activities on the plan to fight violence against women. As every year, the Croatian Parliament marked this day by holding a thematic session of its Committee on Gender Equality called upon by many factors of the anti-violence system both from the state sector and from the non-governmental sector, and as we know recently this Parliament has adopted a new Law on protection against domestic violence which will certainly further improve the comprehensive efforts that the Republic of Croatia is making to combat violence against women. With this public address, we use the opportunity once again to confirm our unwavering intention to persist in these efforts, and the Croatian Parliament will continue, together with all its representatives and MPs, primarily through the adoption of all the necessary legal regulations, but also by public pawning, to seek to remove violence in the family and violence against women in general, to remain high on the scale of our activities. Thank you for your attention. This is a statement by the Committee on Gender Equality. Thank you very much. We're continuing with the agenda. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Three committees have discussed it. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mrs. Vesna Buterin on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42761	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community accepts the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. This law proposes the necessary amendments and additions to certain provisions of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The law provides for specific provisions of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government regarding the determination of county and municipal or city taxes. One of the amendments refers to the release of the payment of the obligation of the automatic dart tax if they have prominent stamps of the Croatian dart alliance in their visible place. In this change, it wanted to encourage the development of sports, darts, which have recently become increasingly massier and more popular. The Croatian dart alliance was admitted to the Croatian Olympic Committee in 2006 and thus gained the status of dart alliances in other countries as well. It is also amended Article 89 which regulates the responsibility and the owner, i.e. the user of the business space that has set up machines for fun games against legal provisions. This amendment is necessary for the reason that in practice it has often occurred that in the surveillance procedure the owner, i.e. the business space user, has made statements that he does not know whose machine it is and at the same time his responsibility for the illegal installation of the machine in the business space has not been prescribed. It is also prescribed that a protective measure be taken on a permanent basis by a fun machine when it is found to be contrary to the law, but only when the decision taken becomes a forceful one. This safeguard measure shall be adopted in order to prevent that machine from being reused against the law. Since entertainment machines are converted into poker, they usually place them in catering facilities where they are available to minors and where, without any responsible adjustment, they violate the provisions of the law and allow gambling in the areas in which it is prohibited, a temporary measure is proposed to prohibit the carrying out of activities in an object where the offence has been committed for 30 days. If the offence is repeated within two years, the measure may be between one and three years. Furthermore, there is an increase in the size of the company’s tax, which means that the company’s tax belongs to the city’s budget, i.e. the municipality where the legal person is based, i.e. the exercise of the registered activity of a natural person. If there is a situation where the obligor has a business unit, then the tax on the company and the business unit is the income of the municipality or city in which the business unit is located. It is also proposed to delete articles 52 to 82. The law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government relating to the content, way of making, adopting and implementing the budget of units of local and regional self-government since all of this is defined in the Budget Act. It is also proposed that the mayor, mayor or mayor oversee the financial, material and accounting operations of budgetary and extra-financial users of units of local and regional self-government. It is also prescribed that the Ministry of Finance be competent to monitor the legality of the use of budgetary resources in units of local self-government and their budgetary and non-financial users, as well as to monitor the dedicated spending of funds provided by the state budget to units of local and regional self-government. Following this, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42762	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42763	Your Honor, the secretary of state. My colleagues and colleagues. We at the SDP Representatives' Club are wondering when the government will finally get its head out of the sand. Because we hoped, believed and expected that if the government did not already listen to criticism from opposition MPs, if it did not already listen to criticism from the public, professional and general, it would at least at some point go after the implementation of the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in this House and which the same government proposed to this Croatian Parliament, which the ruling majority supported in the spirit, defended and supported. And then we expected that, all of a sudden, the agenda item of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government was found to be really in line with what the Government had undertaken here by offering us a program. Because the government has made a commitment to establish a Strategy for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia by 1 May 2008, a joint team for the creation of a Strategy for fiscal decentralisation of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government by 30 June 2008. That by 1.1.2009, I want to warn you that we are now in November of that same year. Thus, by 2009 they would agree and adopt the Law on the financing of units of local self-government by the first foundation of these fiscal decentralisation strategies. Therefore, by 1.1.2009, they will draw up, agree and adopt the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and will be accompanied by these proposals from this, or the results of a solution to that law in the fiscal projections of the government's 2010 budget. That minimum allocation standards will be established as one of the criteria of benefit, i.e. income per capita of units of local and regional (regional) self-government compared to the average income of residents at the level of the Republic of Croatia. That fiscal decentralisation funds will be ensured, starting with the 2009 budget, in order to allow for the completion of the projects in the 2008 budget, and then starting on a completely different system. That the process of decentralisation and financing of local self-government from the central budget will continue based on programmes aimed at eliminating inequality among local self-government units, etc. etc. So we had very clear deadlines. For example, the setting of criteria and the amount of funding for units of local self-government and the criteria for the use of funds was the deadline of 30 June 2008. I want to repeat again we are in November 2009. Then, we had the beginning of the application of the law first, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government on 1 January 2009 etc. etc. We had to start a team, we had to create administrative decentralisation and everything. Instead, today we receive the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units in which we are discussing something of great importance and something of great importance for local self-government units. Something fateful we're making a decision, you know, the crisis is, it's a difficult time, the situation is very serious. This fateful decision is about who will charge stamps on darts and billiards, and how they will survive units of local self-government in 2009. What is the situation in local self-government resulting from this crisis in 2009, or mention. An apology to the representatives and the Croatian public for why the government's programme is not realised, nor mention. An announcement of when we will indeed receive what the government has promised us, not a mention. We're expected to, the prime minister invites us to have suggestions. Here I propose, Mrs Kosor, give yourself time, read the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that you have proposed to this Parliament and work on it. Because at this point in the local self-government, it doesn't matter who's going to charge pool stamps and darts. It does not matter whether or not the tax on the company will be charged, as the total maximum amount of tax on the company can be used by the year 2000 kuna. At this point, it is important and important how local self-government will survive in 2009 and how local self-government will be financed in 2010. The draft budget that comes here tomorrow in debate in this hall is fully continuing the same policy of relations with local self-government as in recent years, and that means those who are on state mangers remain on those mangers. In those mangers will be just as priced as it has been so far. Those who have not been able to count on these mangers and take care of what happens to you. And the implementation of the 2009 state budget predicts that revenue from income tax will drop in 2009 will be almost 10% on average, which means that some units of local self-government will achieve significantly less income, and they have no conditions such as the government and the ruling majority will introduce a harrassor to their citizens. They would not even do so even if they had such opportunities and such conditions that the lack of income tax revenue in their budget was complete. And instead of having answers to those questions, you throw dust in our eyes again and say, "Come on, now, you have fun with how to charge taxes on the holiday house, so the taxes on motor vehicles will be something small, so the mayor or mayor will oversee the budget and how he will manage it even though we have it all almost settled in some other laws. Finally, we have brought 21 laws into line with the new system where the leaders, directly elected leaders of the local self-government units, are substituting the current headships and the system is functioning. Because if the system didn't work, it turns out that according to how we now have the bill, the mayors, the mayors and mayors acted illegally in some cases, and then the question is, how did we go to the elections that we knew for four years in advance that it would be direct, and that we haven't changed all the laws regarding the units of local self-government and the income of local self-government units. We do not have the courage to even open a debate in this Croatian Assembly on the establishment and system of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia at all, and no fundamental law regarding local self-government has come to this House in this term. Although everyone was promised, we said when the funding was due, the Law on the municipal economy was to come, to be adopted here at the Croatian Parliament on September 1st, 30th of this year, and to enter into force on January 1st of next year. What are the other laws that should allow local self-government to survive 2010? Or we're all completely worried about what the local self-government is going to be. It seems to me that reading the state budget is so, because the state budget provides funds for similar units of local self-government, and for those who live off their work we don't care, so let them make sure that they have the resources and for normal functioning, and for capital building, and for the functioning of all the competences and activities that local self-government units have or should have. We don't even have the courage to pin it on, for example, in the Law on Public Roads, which the Government has equally promised to be in this Croatian Assembly. Because we have absurdities that cities manage unclassified roads, and unclassified roads are not public roads, so you drive on something that is not practically not in the Public Roads Act at all defined as a public road. Today and in this bill, we have provisions relating to the tax on motor vehicles, and we did not have the courage to distribute that law or that tax between those who build and maintain roads, and roads build and maintain municipalities and cities. And they don't have any income for that. Countys have a tax on motor vehicles, and they have a fee for using county roads when registering a vehicle. Croatian roads and highways have revenues based on a share in the price of gasoline and from the state budget. The only local self-government has no income based on the use of roads, and the ratio of the amount or kilometers of unclassified roads relative to county, local and state roads is about 5 to 2 to 1, of course to the damage of local self-government units. And then why didn't it grab in here and scratch into the law and say let's try and change it? So instead of facing the problem, the government rather than acting on what it wrote in its programme, it's wasting our time again, it's stealing our time again, it's stealing the future of citizens living in local self-government units not wanting to solve a single key problem. This law does not solve what has been said lately, which is that a reform of local self-government will be made. This law does not resolve that there is a reduction in the number of units of local self-government. This law does not solve the fact that current expenditure is financed only from what local self-government can earn. This law is at this point a completely unnecessary law, a law that will take one morning here in the Croatian Parliament of our debate, which will of course be adopted, but nothing, but absolutely nothing important in Croatia will change, nor will it help Croatia, the citizens of Croatia and local self-government come out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42764	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42765	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'd like to do to correct the exposure of my colleague Mršić, related to the units of local self-government, or the unclassified road. You know very well that, because it's actually true that those like that are maintained and built out of communal compensation. That's one thing. So it's not that specific. You know exactly. The legislator has determined how they are maintained and built. And you should also know that the government takes care of these unclassified roads through another segment. All areas of special state care, mountain and mountain areas,... the islands, therefore, have projects and programmes which, in this respect, rely on programmes and projects, so the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Liaison of the European Investment Bank projects one, two,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] three, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there is a way in which the Government, or the Republic of Croatia, helps units of local self-government when it comes to... The roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what you thought, that's something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42766	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42767	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this completely unnecessary Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (area) administrations. The law, which is one in a series of amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, so far reminds me of a total of 11 interventions in that law, this is 12, and with this 12, definitely in addition to the formal harmonisation of things solved by other laws, solves both the question and fate of the owners of darts and billiards of automatics by catering sites. With my very practical question, it is a condition to free the tax on billiards and dart stickers of the Croatian Billiards Union or the sticker of the Croatian darts union. I'm asking why? Because it's Olympic sports. And I'm asking why the legislator didn't make it possible for bowling players, because bowling is also an Olympic sport, and it has its own association. So why weren't they allowed to do that? Namely both, and secondly, and thirdly perhaps for someone it's important, interesting and is that the reason to go with these changes? But the key is the thing my predecessor has already set up, which is it. First, as units of local administration will first and regionally survive in 2010, whether we are dealing with this law, which is at all the position of the unit of local administration, which is going to survive this administrative reorganisation that the government is allegedly preparing, we don't know by what criteria, we don't even know when, we don't have any information at all. A large number of local administration units remain in suspense whether they will survive at all, some with full right will not survive, but it is a key issue and experience tells us, when very important legal provisions are adopted to generally be passed without criteria and my question is what are the criteria, which are the basis for the reorganisation of units of local and regional self-government. And a key question, and Col. Mršić has already mentioned, which is that by adopting a fiscal centralisation strategy we should have received up to 1. 1. 2009 There's almost nothing out of it, not almost nothing at all, but nothing at all. Another thing, when it comes to HDZ, is the matter clear to us, however, both HSSS and minority representatives when they signed a coalition agreement, the agreement, signed a single commitment that imposes on the new government a commitment that the percentage of local budgets collected at that time was 16.7% of revenues increased to 20% of revenues within four years. And that change in local administration units was supposed to bring an increase in revenue of $ 4.5 billion more than at that point. I remind you, signed in a coalition agreement two years ago. Did any of that get rid of any of it? Is any of it in this law? No, I don't. But he's a dart and a pool. Furthermore, one correction to the presentation of counterpart Mrksic, the Strategy on Regional Development has been made, it was made two years ago in the ministry, past checks on Europe, the European Commission but this same strategy has not yet come to the government, I remind you that it has been made and that same Strategy has not yet come to the Parliament. Why didn't she come? Very simple and clear, the Strategy sets out the degree of development of all our units of local and regional administrations very uniformly the criteria on the basis of which development is established, and what is particularly important is what sets out the criteria in terms of increasing revenues in order to bring those units of local and regional self-government below certain percentages in order to have the right to additional sources of income by automated means and, in order to achieve some time after the level of development, to bring them closer to the objective set by the development index. The criteria have been established, this is the first Strategy and the first Law where criteria are uniformly established. However, this story has not yet come to the government, because by accepting this Strategy by adopting this Regional Development Act, many ministers and the ministry, or employees in the ministries, lose their authority, they no longer decide, but decide the criteria, they do not come to the Parliament, because they lose their political authority, while at the same time bringing ourselves into a very difficult situation that I was talking about this morning and on the Committee on Finance. In 2012, when we enter the European Union, we have already had pre-accession funds, we already have an indication of what the total financial envelope is when we enter, but we have a real danger of paying more European taxes than we're going to use European funds, we're going to pay more, namely, there's a calculation in the ministries, it's not my assessment, it's an assessment in the ministries. In regional development, at this point, when we start at this point, we are not able, we are not ready to take over nor, because Europe has criteria as opposed to us, it has criteria. Now my question is how much we've trained, let's assume that we've trained local administration units through administrative capacity, and how much we've trained it through fiscal capacity. Whether local administration units from their budget can participate in the financing of projects based on those key funds, which are funds from Brussels, cannot. And I almost can't. Therefore, to be clear, we do not want to solve it, and we are not prepared to respect it, and these facts say, the government does not respect its coalition agreement, does not respect its work programme, does not respect the dynamics of its work programme, and we are not prepared to give the units of the local administration the opportunity to use all of their potentials and all of those opportunities that are being provided to them, and we are going to pay, I repeat, there is a real danger in both regional development and agriculture, we are putting ourselves in real danger of paying taxpayers more European taxes in Brussels than we will withdraw money from Brussels, and the money is defined and believe that the European administration is paying its employees to spend less on the European budget and to have very clear criteria, criteria that we will have when we have to have to do so. Therefore, I think it was one of a series of topics, to refer to all those topics opened by Mršić on behalf of the SDP Club, that this is one of the topics that we need to talk about, that we need very clearly to say from the opposition we have this clear position, and our clear position is very simple and that it is that the government respects what it has signed with the coalition agreement and that it respects the deadlines of the government's programme of those that it itself has prescribed. These two things that the ruling coalition and the Government of the Republic of Croatia respect, believe that the support of the opposition is not at all questionable in this segment and that it is present. We at the Croatian People's Party Club repeat, we will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local, regional (regional) self-government. Not for pool, not for darts. Because of one alignment with the other legal regulations that are necessary. At the same time, we ask the ruling coalition and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give all the good ideas that have been signed, unfortunately they are still at the level of the letter of intent, to translate, to realize both because of our municipalities and because of our cities and because of one message to the citizens and according to the environment, that we are a country that respects what is agreed. But most importantly, we open up the possibility that we can use what we're offered. I mean European funds here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42768	Thank you. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42769	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Oh, my footstep, to listen to you, Vesna Pusic. But I agree, Europe gets from Croatia. Croatia has given much to Europe. What do we get? We'll see. We gave them the market, the banks, and we'll give them that. But now to return to this law on amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. How it's just funding, a little later. Easy for coalition agreements, but what worries me is these legal solutions, that's the future of local self-government, that's this economic, social really, as the people would say, on the ground. And all of this is at the moment when the vast majority of local self-government, outside perhaps the capital of Zagreb, is being questioned. The first thing I would say is that Mr. Lovrincevic, Adlesic, Deputy Prime Minister, stop playing territorial structure. They themselves suggest that at least 50% of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia should be abolished. Mr Lovrincevic suggests that out of 20 Croatian counties, 50% should be abolished, which will say that it should remain 10, and Mrs Adlesic says that of the 20 Croatian counties, 16 plus the city of Zagreb should be abolished, so that only 5 regional units remain. It must certainly come from who has proposed new municipalities in this House. We've certainly voted or formed in this House in the last ten years, I dare say, at least 50 new municipalities. Everyone suggested it except IDS. It is clear that the only criterion must be this financial sustainability of local self-government, in order to meet the economic needs of citizens, in order to meet the social needs of citizens, legal obligations, etc. However, regardless of the number of inhabitants, if e.g. a little Gracias not far from Pazin's successful municipality, why to end it. If one Kaštelir, the Labins are a successful municipality and they have an unfulfilled thousand people, so why remove them. If they are one Bale, where IDS is not in charge of a successful municipality, so why cancel that municipality. Finally, I claim that a small Laniste above Buzet is up in Cicaria with only 400 inhabitants and some residents must be better off, making better profit as an independent municipality, than being in the territorial part of the city of Buzet. However, it is not the point that I would say the number of municipalities, but the central issue is centralisation and how much of our country's funding, on the other hand, is local self-government. Finally, this is the Law on the financing of local, regional self-government, as the municipalities, cities and counties will say. The state today owns or is talking about the budget size of 120 billion kuna. That was about 834% of the fiscal capacity last year. Our municipalities, plus cities, plus counties had 16.9 billion kuna or 11.7% of that fiscal capacity, while the City of Zagreb itself had 7 billion and 50 million kuna or 4.9%. So country 83.4%, all other regional and local self-government 16.6%. I would dare say that it is not true, that it is not true that our counties, that the cities, local self-government are failing. It's a failed state. She now wants to treat her fiscal incompetence by eliminating our municipalities, cities, or counties with a new territorial structure. The device I'd say isn't crucial, he's important, but it's far more important powers, money. How close will this local self-government be to the citizens? And it's also clear that you have to ask yourself a question, who set this territorial structure up, who was asking it? The IDS isn't, but I'm sure a device like this, today Istra has accepted. Where's the problem, though? The problem is that it's there in the '90s or other, actually '92. A year down a single structure. The kind when it comes to local self-government that the Constitution of '74 knew. Which I consider to be the ideal of local self-government, and we have been offered a new one with the aim of ruling our premises, residents by the example of the archdiocese, or parishes. Countys are a copy of our dioceses, our municipalities are a copy of our parishes. So according to the '74 Constitution. The community's then parliaments were elected by judges and police chiefs and supervisors and head of finance. And today our mayors, the mayors, mayors can't choose an autonomous mothermaker. '74. Over 50% of the fiscal income remained for municipalities. Today, I told the municipalities, the counties, the city of Zagreb 16.6%. The municipalities of the Constitution of '74. For years with my financial strength, I dare say even the war was financial. According to the '74 Constitution. The Republic of Croatia, when the government was closest to the citizens, was developing as fast as possible. These municipalities have integrated Croatia strongly and centralisation, as is known, always disintegrates Croatia. I argue that this country is simply in such a situation that it cannot survive economically, socially if we have only one strong Zagreb, only one successful Zagreb and that all the periphery is actually a failure. Croatia needs a hundred small Zagrebs. Look at one of Slavonia's. Well, this Slavonia was bleeding for all of us in Croatia, this flat plain, today almost people in those areas are starving. One Dalmatia has lost 100,000 jobs and every other minister is to express itself as a Dalmatian, etc. The metropolisation, so that metropolisation will suck up Croatia, suck it up financially, economically, and we are well on the way to making the worst happen to demographically suck up the Republic of Croatia. Mr Lovrincevic recently said that the metropolis would grow faster in the year, the rest slower. He says the crisis will feel stronger in the periphery than in Zagreb. It's a done quote. I do not want it to be so that one Slavonia feels stronger crisis than Zagreb, that Istria feels stronger crisis than Zagreb, that one character feels stronger crisis than Zagreb, one Dalmatia feels stronger crisis than Zagreb. Zagreb is certainly our capital and it will be, and everyone cares about what is happening here and how this is developing but the crisis should also be parallel to all in the same way. What it looks like when we transfer or present it in fiscal capacity or gross social product. Zagreb with its gross social product "per capital" comes first with 15 thousand 567 euros, second place is Istria with 11000 377 euros, the Primorje-Gorski County is third with 10 thousand 560 euros. Interestingly, Zagreb is a GDP ahead of Istria and Istria has fewer unemployed than Zagreb, far more export per capita, a larger foreign exchange inflow, etc. Zadar County has a GDP of only 6 thousand 918 dollars, Sibenik 6 thousand 575, Split 6 thousand 932 and in Slavonia let's say one Vukovar has as many as 6 thousand 757 euros per capital, Vukovar only 5 thousand 500 euros per capital. Why is that? So, among other things, because today all the budget revenues are concentrated in the city of Zagreb. There's all the ministries, all the embassies, all the extra budget funds. We can say almost every bank has its headquarters today in Zagreb. The exception is one Erste in Bjelovar, OTP in Zadar, IKB in Umag, Karlovac Bank, etc. Almost every company that counts over three hundred employees today works, operates from the city of Zagreb. By abolishing the county, that trend would certainly have been continued by the gentlemen. Why is Istra after GDP in second place, first of all because there are 30, 40 strong companies operating in that space and who have managed to preserve this one business subjectivity. If we were out of county, I think that would be a question, too. If we go with the abolition of the county it will be an additional blow to the weak in this country. I don't know how to express myself to local self-government. Will anyone in these entities be out of a job the next day? They won't, but they're simply going to lose the power that's as close to them as they can. Finally, what do you say, don't stop without one final debate. These counties are part of subjectivity, history. It is only enough to look at the coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia, so it will be clear to everyone. What would divide Croatia into, say, 115 municipalities or 5 counties? I think that we would only be further shared in order to further enter conflict, referendums and those reforms should not be broken over our knees. So, let Mr Lovrincevic, Adlesic do instead of exporting counties, shipbuilding, crime, not cities and territorial structures because everything that has been touched in some way this government has shown either that it has failed or that it is on the right path to do so. So the solution is the greater decentralisation. I said decentralisation integrates, metropolisation disintegrates Croatia. Let the state keep what is normally part of its action, the military, part of the police, foreign affairs, monetary policy, pensions, part of health care, capital investment, fiscal policy, and let the rest be left to local self-government because I believe that such a structure for the country would be cheaper, be more efficient and certainly less criminal if the government were closer to the citizens. In this law, as my predecessors have said, there is some debate about some parafiscal duties, such as these dart stamps, holiday houses, taxes on motor vehicles, engines, cars, etc. and nobody's talking about something we're going to talk about tomorrow, although when the 2010 budget is debated, how the budget of the Republic of Croatia will be 1% higher than this year and almost all local self-governments are reducing their budgets by 10, 15, some 20, some 30%. The main thing is the clear economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia without local self-government can hardly be successful, it is hardly possible to lead a life in this country. It'll be clear to all of us if we go to that suspension harder and weaker, I'm afraid it'll be much weaker. One word for the end, let's start dealing with these life issues. Local self-government is certainly one life issue and the tax on darts is so marginal. It can be denied by local self-government for the benefit of the state and the state should then grant the local self-government part of the VAT or part of the excise duty on oil or on tobacco processing and then transfer a good part of the power to local self-government because it is actually essential that the powers must follow the money. All in all, this law is unnecessary. No problem, it's clear, it's someone consistent with this new electoral system. IDS accepts it, but I think when it comes to local self-government that we need to deal with those life issues, and that's how much money, how much power and how we live on the periphery today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42770	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42771	Thank you very much. Well, it is an incorrect assumption that Mr. Cain's territorial fragmentation and territorial organisation, I mean local and regional self-government, is not one of the key problems in Croatia, he is a key problem. Because the fact that a village in Istria with 400 inhabitants lives well, probably has some kind of drive there and some good production, is why that drive has to be paid by the chief, the chief, the driver, the cleaning lady, etc. It's better that the money that stands out for that attitude goes into development. The key problem because of the cost and what we have in Croatia today is the reorganisation of units of local self-government and regional self-government by agreeing to the problem of decentralisation. You have a large number of municipalities that simply don't have one employee, just the five or six people who work in the municipality and possibly some civil servant if there's some kind of exposition. And I think the key question is to reduce the number of units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42772	You think? But you're correcting an incorrect quote. ... The club of representatives of HSS Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to stick to the subject, and this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, although everyone on behalf of clubs has talked about it, but used these amendments to give their opinions on the general financing and survival of a large number of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. And the hand to heart, if they weren't there probably some things wouldn't happen in the Republic of Croatia, I mean in a positive sense. The first line of democracy is local self-government, although Croatia is often assessed by domestic politicians and foreign analysts as a highly centralised state. Therefore, in the club HSS, the adoption of this law is seen as a valid effort to regulate the area of funding of local and regional self-government units as best and more effective. Since its adoption in 1993, this law has experienced a number of changes and additions, all with the aim of improving and ensuring the better functioning of the local self-government funding system. In most European countries, the trend of decentralisation of the state is increasing, transferring political power and influence from a higher level to lower local levels of government. The need for decentralisation arises because of the need for a more efficient functioning of the public sector. Local interests and needs can best be met if a decentralised way of deciding on the types of these public services and needs is ensured. The decentralisation of the system also achieves an increase in efficiency in the provision of public services because local authorities have better insight into public services or local needs. In Croatia, the decentralisation process has been going on for a long time, and I would say that mistakes in our opinion are happening in walking. According to the 2001 census, the total population in the Republic of Croatia was 4 million 381 thousand 352. Of which, 17.6% of the total number of people or 770,000 and 58 people are lost in the City of Zagreb. In the rest of Croatia, without Zagreb, lives just over 82% of the population or 3 million and 611 thousand inhabitants. In other words, a total of 3 million and 30 thousand people live in cities or 69.16%, while in municipalities a million 351 thousand or 30.84%. It is important to know that local units’ basic tasks are to improve living and working conditions, i.e. raising the standard of living of all its inhabitants. to find a way of funding to ensure sufficient revenue for the smooth conduct of operations in the field of units of local and regional self-government. The law on the financing of local and regional self-government units defines the sources of income for local and regional self-government units, the types of common taxes that are shared between different levels of government and their division between the central, i.e. the state, county, cities and municipalities. Local and regional self-government units provide revenue for the financing of their activities and freely available to them. The revenues of municipalities, cities and counties should be equal to the expenditures or tasks they carry out, but while Croatia has started the decentralisation process it is evident that there is still room for such a situation to improve. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government shall be amended and the legislative provisions for which it has been observed that they should be amended during the application of the law so far. Subject law is not large by the number of norms it prescribes, but it defines in an important way the details that have created confusion so far, or their indeterminateness has left room for manipulation. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws are more specifically prescribed provisions concerning the determination of county, municipal and urban taxes. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The law for the purpose of clarifying the obligation to pay taxes on holiday homes and those holiday homes that citizens rent to tourists on the basis of the approval of the competent office since it continues to be a seasonal way of using the holiday home, which is the basis for determining the tax on holiday homes. Subject law proposes to delete Articles 52 to 82 relating to the budget, annual budget calculation, fixed reserve, budget deficit coverage, special accounts and control of the budget of units of local and regional self-government, as those areas are regulated by the 2008 Budget Act. It is also proposed that the mayor, mayor or mayor oversee the financial, material and accounting operations of the budgetary and extra-financial users of the unit of local and regional self-government. It is also proposed to amend Article 88(1) in a more precise and clear manner the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance in relation to the supervision of the financial and material operations of the unit of local and regional self-government. It is also stated in paragraph 3 that the State Audit Office shall carry out a review of the financial reports and operations of units of local and regional self-government. It is unnecessary to prescribe that the Ministry of Finance may require the State Audit Office to review the financial operations of the unit of local and regional self-government since this has already been said to be carried out by the State Audit Office. We welcome the proposed amendments to Article 89 which prescribe the responsibility of the owners and users of the business space that has set up machines for fun games against the prescribed provisions. Entertainment machines are often converted into poker machines and are placed as such in catering facilities where they are available to underage users, allowing gambling under quotes in areas where it is prohibited. Therefore, we at the HSS Club welcome the proposed provisions which are the intensity of preventing the development of the cube in the juvenile population. Subject changes and additions to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, as we have already pointed out at the outset, propose the necessary changes which have proved necessary in application. The provisions on the budget in accordance with the Budget Act are deleted, with a view to making this area function as safe and transparent as possible. Finally, the HSS Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42774	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of a unit of local, regional self-government is impossible not to mention what Col. Mršić said in his opening presentation, which is that we cannot be satisfied with the laws that are proposed, with the amendments that are proposed, which define only some technical things without scratching a little into the essence of the problem. And the bottom line of the problem today in Croatia is that we have local self-government in such a situation that very difficult many municipalities, cities, and even some counties can finance their work. And that's where the debate is artificially avoided. Reform doesn't even want to start a debate, let alone some concrete things happen. And then we have a situation in the state budget this year that one of the items in the state budget is 5.2 billion kuna, and it's about aid within the general state. A significant part of the money within that item also refers to the support of the counties, cities and municipalities that they receive, not to invest, not to improve and make the lives of citizens in that county better, but solely to cover the regular expenditures of those units. And here we come to the fundamental problem of the Croatian state which is that we have a wasteful public administration that is simply not suitable for the situation in which we are. And that's why I, like most colleagues from the SDP Club, speak exactly the following. Run reforms, don't just give us technical laws anymore. But when we have a technical law in front of us that will specify certain items within the existing rules, I must say that I am not satisfied with the proposals within the laws that speak for a certain exemption from tax duties. In particular, it is a tax on machines for entertainment that are not numerically expressed. Says the Secretary of State in his opening statement to go in terms of the popularity of darts and billiards and that for that reason we will release them if they are members of the billiard alliance, if there is a stamp of the billiard alliance or a dart of the automatic alliances will not pay that tax. And it'll like popularize the game as such. I'm thinking exactly the opposite. That tax is a hundred kunas a month. I highly doubt anything will cheapen that game for end-users. But the only benefits of this suspension are the billiard alliance, dart alliances, or entrepreneurs, privates who own these machines. And if that wasn't negligible income, and I would love it if we were to propose such amendments to the law to make it clear how much this annual money is collected from that side of the tax, that is, how much income tax administration collects on the basis of that tax. The actual bill makes about 15 million kunas a year. Is this a negligible income for the counties that we subsidize this year 13 for their regular activity with around 47 million kuna. That's a third of that amount. So, 15 million kunas, we rerouted to privates and pools and dart alliances to their disposition. So we know how this is usually agreed in Croatia. This money will likely be compensated and divided in this way. No benefit for end-users who will not play this game at any cost, that is to say, will no longer be popularized. 15 million kuna is not negligible income especially when it comes to the income of the counties that many of them have a hard time struggling with charges and closing their budgets. These 13 are financed additionally from the state budget to cover their expenditures. Here, I'll give you one specific piece of information. The Krapina-Zagorje County is worth around 400,000 kuna a year. I'm sure it's not a small amount of money. 15 million kunas, in other words, we gave up one kindergarten for darts and billiards. I don't think that's definitely a move that needs to be met with some approval, and I honestly don't think anything's going to be popularized by getting rid of that tax anymore. The other thing that bothers me and I have to mention again when we talk about taxes is, which is why Croatia is not being reformed by the tax system. I'm going to give another example of funding local self-government. It's about taxes, so houses, cottages, etc. It is expressed in terms of 5 to 15 kuna depending on which local self-government determines annually per meter square. And then we have a situation that and that's what we SDP say is that we tax every year more and more work, or those people who have the least. But it doesn't seem like anything. We took the crisis tax and we'll take 3 billion next year, nearly 3 billion kunas to the citizens, through VAT over 3 billion kunas. But nothing seems like people who have five, six, seven houses pay more than 500 kuna a year for each of their houses. And that's the direct arrival of local self-government. Which is why you don't raise it, and that's why you don't tax the property of those who have the most. It's current now and in the presidential campaign. I will give an example, Presidental candidate Vidosevic has a huge estate near Skrad in Platci, a municipality that is tormented by the patching of its budget. It's $5.7 million a year. Mr. Vidosevic has a huge house he pays for, and a ski resort, ponds, I don't know how many acres of land, and he pays 500 kuna a year, maybe something more, taxes on that house. Is that a fair state? Is this a just system that propagates and this government does nothing to replace it? We can take a Croatian worker every month for about 200, 300 kuna, but we can't take the one who has 20 million euros in assets, can we not take it to pay more than 500, 600 kuna a year? Is this an honest state and does that state provide equal schedule and costs and tax revenues to all citizens? Absolutely not. In this country, it's worth more to be rich, to make money in property, because you won't pay anything in the end. And that is what must be said clearly here and why we are not satisfied every time we see such corrections of the law, because we are aware of the deep injustices of the Croatian tax system, which unfortunately this government favors and propagates from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42776	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42777	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This law, amendments and additions to this law, as already stated, are in line with the changes made to the state budget, i.e. the Budget Law and the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, which have given powers to the mayors, mayors and mayors. And in that sense, I support him. He will surely bring more effective tax collection, for the sake of more precise provisions, and he is now in much clearer, and these articles are very well explained. In that sense, I think we should support him. What I can see as mayor with long experience is that in cities and municipalities, we don't have that much trouble with paying tax revenue that goes through the tax administration, but what we charge through our own mechanisms. So it's very difficult for us to charge communal fees, communal contributions, rent me space and so on. It happens that we take charge, we block the bill, but it comes with a FINA notice that there's no funds in the account, and these entities are working neatly, working neatly. Those bars are neatly open. And then the question is, how is that possible? I think it's something the Ministry of Finance should take a little bit of care that these things don't happen. Or, for example, The craftsman is very obliged, he owes the city, he doesn't want to pay, he shut down his craft, he opened up after 2, 3 months again and nothing to anyone. The city can't be charged. If court proceedings are conducted they are long-term, uncertain, he is no longer in that area when you get a judicial verdict, but often you can't charge yourself. Here, I'll take the occasion. The law on local self-government, I don't think it might be the best, but it's not as bad as any of us want to show up here. And I don't think that a new structure should be quickly brought in, that it should be very serious to approach it because I am a witness that many municipalities and cities, or small municipalities, are very well functioning and much better than they did at the time when they were in the formation of some larger municipalities or cities. That's why I think these changes mean a step forward and that they should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42778	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42779	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. So what should be noted, when units of local self-government are at stake, is that we brought in the European Charter of Local Self-Government a year and a half ago, which unfortunately predicted some things that we ourselves did not follow in the subsequent adoption of the law. The two key laws that went directly to the harm of local self-government are the ones to which part of the profit tax, which until then belonged to local self-government units, directed directly into the state budget, not to settle, rather than to invest. And the second is when the personal deduction grew from a thousand 600 to a thousand 800 kuna. These units of local self-government have lost an additional 250 million kuna by calculation of the tax administration. All the local self-government units have lost more than 2 billion kuna in the last two years. If it is now considered that their total income is more than 20 billion compared to, meaning annually, it can be combined with the state budget, it turns out that the share, the fiscal share of local self-government units in the state budget, is reduced by 10%. This is definitely not on the European trail, and it is definitely not on the government's track for the period from 2008 to 2011. Why? Because this fiscal stake of 15% of local self-government units in the total share of local self-government incomes has been reduced by 1 and a half percentage points precisely because of these two laws. And we are now at a level of 14%, while the European Union is at 30%. Instead of 15.16%, 16% raised to 17 or 18% of individual laws, this fiscal share decreased to 14%, which is definitely bad and does not go to the European story of decentralisation, or European standards at all. What must also be said, and it has been touched here that certain units of local self-government, individual municipalities, let's talk about making revenue based on the discretionary criteria of the state budget. Only discretionary criteria. And that is what is the worst and most dangerous for the healthy functioning of the economy and for the healthy functioning of the Croatian state as a whole. If individual income exceeds 80%, and 80% is obtained from the state budget, the question is whether this municipality actually makes sense because the only purpose of it is to pay salaries to the commissioner, his secretary, the employees of the municipality and those who are representatives of the municipal council, that is the only meaning of such a municipality, and it definitely needs to think about restructuring, but not in a way that the abolition of municipalities takes money from units of local self-government, no, in a way that more money is given to them but that municipalities that do not fulfil their role to consider the justification of their existence. Current aid from the state budget, I'm going to give you an example of what my predecessors said were local self-government units, municipalities, cities and county development pillars. Quality decentralisation that leads to the creation and creation of a new value, investment in the infrastructure that brings development, investment in programmes and projects that bring development and provide jobs definitely creates a new value, but if you invest money just to achieve a level of communal standard that will not create jobs, then you cannot reduce that share in the coming years. For example, it is seen, from the ongoing aid from the state budget for Zagreb, only 0.3% means, one negligible data that goes from the state budget to the City of Zagreb, to the Primorje-Gorski County, a negligible 5% data, for Istria as well, means that there are counties that can, without any help from the state, develop qualityly advanced development like the Istrian County, the Primorje-Gorski County, the City of Zagreb, while Licko-Senj County cannot live without help from the state budget, they are at 30% level, Zadar County cannot live without the state budget, they are at a level of more than 20%, Virovitical-Porad County cannot live without help from the state budget they are at 23%, these are counties that cannot operate without the state. And the real question is, what does the government do in these counties? Do they create a new value, do they create new jobs, if a third of their income comes from the state budget then it is definitely not on the trail of that decentralisation that should ensure development. What should also be said when units of local and regional self-government are concerned, is that Croatia definitely cannot develop without strategic documents we unfortunately do not have. counterpart Mršić said in the opening letter that although the deadline was a year and a half ago, the regional development strategy unfortunately has not yet arrived. Although it was time to adopt the Regional Development Act a year ago, it has not arrived yet. And regional development is a pillar and a driver of the economy in this area, because without this policy that we want to produce on a particular part of Croatia, which branches of the economy will connect in that part of Croatia, which branches will develop, how much intervention of state-owned enterprises that can, thanks to their revenues, be pillars of development, individual regions, we cannot move forward. If state-owned enterprises have a weaker score than last year for 2 billion, if spent, and without asking the question of where they are being spent, if they fall for each other's administrations of state-owned enterprises, and on a regional basis they should ensure development in a particular region, county or municipality, then the question is how and how will the Regional Development Strategy be written. She hasn't come yet and it's a serious problem and it's worrying. Without this Strategy, Croatia cannot develop, as without a strategy of economic development, which we also do not have. The strategies that have come to the Croatian Parliament are difficult I would say unrealistically, the development of railway infrastructure, the development of transport infrastructure, the energy development strategy, these are the amounts of investments that predict the annual growth rate for those investments from 10% to 15%. Well, that's common sense. How can we get documents that have an annual growth rate of 10 to 15%? And the Croatian growth rate for economic growth for last year was minus 7%, and this year the question is whether it will be positive. If 50 thousand people are out of work this year as announced by the Drinker, then we will definitely have a problem with a positive economic percentage likely and she will be in next year... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42780	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42781	Well, here I would like to correct my colleague Davor Bernardic, who has stated the only meaning of these small poor municipalities is to pay the wages. And my colleague, I wouldn't agree with that, because I think a good job was done in 93 when all these municipalities, which were made out of abandoned suburbs and that chief who had nothing there, might have been able to drag into a trafo station, something on Croatian waters, something that place, which that village would never have won. That's why I think there's a huge number of small municipalities that have had a big boom, that have managed to make even industrial zones and things like that, which would never have worked if they had remained relatively close to the center and extremely far from any investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42782	Replica Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42783	Thank you very much. Comrade Bernardić, you have well noticed the assistance that local self-government units receive that simply cannot function without it, it does not only come down to those municipalities from your debate, which even sometimes 50% of their own, and sometimes more than 70, 80% of their revenues are obtained from the state. Unfortunately, the budget noted, I said about 100 million kuna, which is directly paid into the accounts of these counties, but through other items and other ministries, a lot more is paid. It's about billions of kunas, I'm going to take, for example, one Ship-Posavina County that gets direct help from around 10 million kunas, but when all the total assistance and assistance from other ministries is summed up from 80 to 90 million kunas. So it's about 35 to 40% of the entire county's income. So such a single system of dependence of local self-government is certainly not good and should not be potentiated and not supported, but exactly the opposite. We need to change things we don't think are good for. Dependence and most often the criteria for granting assistance are taken, I would say it is very difficult to find municipalities and cities where the mayors and mayors of the party are currently not in power, which is HDZ, but on the contrary, the list is about coalition partners or mayors and mayors who are members of the ruling party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42784	Replication response, Mr. Attorney Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42785	Well, that's what's really crucial. Discretional criteria in making decisions where support will go is an abandoned model that is no longer used in developed countries. The right criterion should be exact, and the next data best speaks about it. How do you justify the existence of the municipality and on the trail of what my colleague Markovanovic corrected me, which has the original incomes of two hundred thousand kunas, and only for wages is he paying 600 thousand kuna? More expensive pie than tepsia. And that's it. She has 200 thousand kunas of original income, and she pays 600 thousand kuna for wages. This means that not only spends everything that is created in that municipality, but still takes 400 grand from the state budget. That's the main problem. That doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42786	Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42787	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, which is proposed in the first reading. So, through one constructive debate, we can really give quality suggestions that will eventually be made if necessary and respected during the second reading. Today we could hear here in the debate, I listened carefully to colleagues who talked about both the regional development strategy and the new territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, as well as further processes of decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia. I think these are the topics we will discuss in the future, but I will still return to the topic of today's agenda, which is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. I would also add that with a large number of findings that have been made I can agree, but I say when these topics come to the Parliament's agenda, then we can all say a lot more about it together. So let me start by saying a few sentences on the very law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government that was adopted in 1993, however, under a different name. And who has indeed experienced a number of amendments and additions over the past 15 years, several corrections, and by harmonising with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 21 February 2007. By that decision I think we all remember, there was a abolished tax on unprocessed agricultural land, a tax on unused entrepreneurship properties, and a tax on undeveloped building land. All the National Journals, therefore, where these amendments and additions and decisions of the Constitutional Court as well as the corrections are published, are set out in Article 1 of this proposal. It should also be said that the latest amendments and additions to this law were adopted last year, which, as in several previous amendments and additions, established the modified distribution of the total income, i.e. income tax between the state, municipality, city and county, and the special distribution of the City of Zagreb, as well as certain municipalities and cities with special status. We know that all these changes and additions have gone in a way to decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. strengthening the financial capacities of local self-government units. The applicable Law on the financing of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, provides for resources for the financing of self-government units of local and regional self-government, i.e. county, municipalities and cities, which are set out in specific legal regulations. According to this, the unit law of local and regional self-government is derived from their own sources, then from participation in common taxes and fees, and finally on the grant from the county budget under the conditions of meeting certain prescribed criteria, which we can call one common denominator, the level of development of a particular local or regional self-government. In this part, I will only say that, in accordance with the applicable Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, all counties, municipalities and cities have the possibility to introduce certain taxes as their own source of income. I believe and I'm sure all units of local and regional self-government have already done so. Thus, the counties are allowed to introduce inheritance taxes and gifts, taxes on road motor vehicles, taxes on vessels, and taxes on machines for fun games. While municipalities, i.e. cities, are allowed to introduce income tax cuts, consumption taxes, holiday taxes, corporate taxes or the name and tax on the use of public areas. In my personal opinion, three basic reasons why the applicant, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, sent the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government which I will continue to try to explain and try to bring us closer to all of us. For the first reason, I see the motions in order to improve certain provisions of the law, more precise and clearer regulation of their content, thus removing the perceived ambiguities in the implementation of the law. Mostly on county, municipal and city taxes. This excludes, among other things, the possibility of double taxation of the same legal basis, and introduces the exemption from paying inheritance taxes and gifts to former spouses, who are in the phase of resolving their property relations. It is clearly defined on 31 March as the date for determining the ownership of vehicles or vessels for the purpose of paying those taxes. Introduces the exemption from the payment of taxes on machines, along with billiards and for darts. In detail, the manner and procedure for the reporting and payment of taxes on consumption is laid down, further and precise clarification is given to the obligation to pay taxes on holiday homes, and a mandatory exchange of data and official records of cities and municipalities is created, in order to successfully determine the tax if the tax authority is the Tax Administration, etc., etc. The second is the need to delete excess articles, so Articles 58 to 82. The law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government relating to budget and annual budget accounting, etc. Considering that this area is prescribed and regulated by the Budget Law. Finally, the third reason is the need to comply with certain provisions of the law in question with the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, in particular with its last amendments and amendments. Then, the provisions of the Budget Law and the provisions of the State Audit Act. I don't think there should be any detailed and additional explanation here since it's purely about formal technical changes. In the end, I would disagree with those who say that this law is not necessary at this time. I think that any of our laws need to be harmonised if there have been any changes and additions in some other regulations, and I think these provisions that apply to clearer and more precise interpretation of certain municipal, urban and county taxes have certainly come in handy. For that reason, I will personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42788	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović-Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42789	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government that we are discussing here in the Assembly today shows that only individual articles have been amended or updated. It is therefore only about the harmonisation of this law with other regulations and the additions of certain articles of that law. All I'd say is cosmetic procedures in that law. It is known that this law prescribes, among other things, how many tax revenues or which tax revenues belong to certain units of local and regional (regional) self-government but in changes in this respect there is no letter in this law. It is obvious that the existing system and policy do not show or wish to join regional and local development policy reforms. We know that the coalition headed by HDZ has not fulfilled the promise of further decentralisation of Croatia, decentralised financing of units of local and regional regional self-government. During the period from 2003 to today, the state gave up its generous share in tax and income tax, but at the same time took away local income tax units. The 2010 draft budget shows that tax revenues from tax and income cuts will fall significantly, which means less income for local units and regional self-government units. I would like to remind you that the parties to the coalition agreement have pledged to establish a joint team to develop a fiscal decentralisation strategy and the Law on the financing of units of local and regional administrations and self-government by 30 June 2008. The parties also pledged to establish a detailed decentralisation administration platform by the same date and to implement it by 1 January 2009. It's not gonna happen. Today we are at the end of 2009, we are discussing amendments to the Finance Act and we see that neither the new law nor the regional development strategy nor the adoption of the Regional Development Act until 31.12.2008. The government again promises in its 2008-2011 programme the adoption of both the strategy and the new Finance Act, which it says will take effect in 1.1.2009. We are at the end of 2009, so none of the above has been brought. The low level of decentralisation and low fiscal capacity of a large number of depreciated units has a consequence and a double share of local investment in total public investment compared to the countries of the European Union. The tightness of local units is in fact a new centralisation of the state and as the government is obviously the goal because it increases dependence on different financial transfers in the form of support without which a large part of the local units could not function at all, according to counterpart Davor Bernardic. A centralised state like ours is a major handicap because it respects the issue of balanced previous development and therefore regional differences are too great. The responsible government should take care of even development and all its ends, but this government obviously does not. The differences and divisions of rich and poor Croatia are growing. Take, for example, only Slavonia and its lag behind other parts of Croatia. The once-rich region has literally been on its knees, and this is solely because of the government's poor politics and maternal relationship with HDZ since 2003. A clearer and stronger system of solidarity for the richer ends towards the poorer ones is needed, an improvement of the fiscal balance system with a view to ensuring equal standards for citizens. One of the important steps is to adopt a new Finance Act that has been delayed for many years, and not by chance, and regional differences are increasing on a daily basis, which is certainly inadmissible. Let me just continue by commenting on some of the provisions of this law that are being amended today, and so in Article 3 which speaks of road motor vehicle tax, this is complemented only by a point. Thus, the tax on road motor vehicles is paid by legal and natural persons who own registered passenger cars and motorcycles, and is now complemented in this Article 3 of this Act "on 31 March of the year for which the tax on road motor vehicles is established". When we talk about the tax on road motor vehicles, it is known that it is the county's income, that mostly the county's part means cut-offs and charges transferred to the tax administration and there are certain problems. It is precisely because the tax administration uses the database of the MUP, that means all those changes that occurred until 31 January of the current year are entered into the cutting and the customers of motor vehicles are in debt for the current year. For these reasons, the tax administration is late with a tax cut on motor vehicles and that is for legitimate reasons. So it happens that usually the tax cut goes during the 9th or 10th month of the current year, meaning that units of local self-government or county in that period of 9, 10th month do not de facto receive money from the title of that income. Well, I'd like to make a suggestion and a suggestion. I think it would be far best to charge that tax immediately when registering motor vehicles. Why don't they do this for a technical examination and then units of local and regional self-government, means the county throughout the year in continuity gets taxes from that tax on road motor vehicles because it doesn't have to be the tax administration that will cut off all types of taxes, contributions, criminal penalties and everything else. I think that would be far better for the tax administration and certainly for the units of the district self-government. Let me do so, I would also comment on Article 6 which is now added in this bill and is actually talking about how to pay and submit a consumption tax form which is once again the income of units of local self-government and cities and municipalities. It says that the accounting period for the tax is from the first day to the last day of the month. However, paragraph 5 further states that the prescribed form prescribed is meant by this law to be handed over by the taxpayer to the competent authority at the end of the accounting period as well. Therefore, the accounting period is one month, the taxpayer must submit a form by the last day of the month for the tax on consumption of the tax administration, and must also account for the consumption tax until that last day of the current month. I would suggest, however, that, in some ways, the taxpayers be left with a deadline and that it be harmonised with the other forms for other types of tax in the tax administration, that the deadline be 15 in the month, means in the month for the past month, and not that the taxpayer must also account for and pay that tax by the last day of the current month. I mean, it doesn't make any sense to me. You should have gone with other types of taxes in some way, so this might put a deadline up to 15 in the month for the past month. That's my suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42790	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42791	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the incorrect quote of a colleague who in her debate pointed out the maternal relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 2003 towards Slavonia and Baranja. I'll look back at the Osječko-Baranja County. Dear colleagues, Osijek-Baranja County is one of the leading counties in Slavonia and Baranja, which through its projects has withdrawn from the Government of Croatia’s budget where the problem of Slavonia and Baranja has been identified through the funds our county has withdrawn, as well as many infrastructure projects that have led from 2003 to today, so I am corridor 5C to the city of Osijek and the city of Đakova because they contribute to your incorrect ambition that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed maternal relations with Slavonia and Baranja. I am correcting your imprecise relationship with your colleague that you have said the maternal relationship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards Slavonia and Baranja.I think that before that concept should be removed from the context because it is entirely incorrect, before someone says it should be well studied by all those projects that our counties have withdrawn from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42792	Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42793	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Comrade Nada, you specifically stressed that funding local administrations is very difficult in Slavonia. This correction of the incorrect quote I will also try to say that you were right because the production that is present in Slavonia and Baranja and by development is far from what Mr Salapic has now told. It turns out that Slavonia and Baranja are the most developed region, but we know what problems are present here. What is the problem with the funding of the administration, the local administration? Well, it's precisely because this poverty isn't enough for all these local administrations that exist, municipalities and municipalities to be funded. I think that part will have to work anyway. The other thing is that it is necessary to see how much of the funds that go towards the state should be returned to that local administration, especially in Slavonia. In particular, this concerns the question of land-related assets that normally, if in one quality way all these funds were collected and left to local self-government or local units, then the possibility would be much simpler and better, for them to survive better and to work on those tasks for which they were created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42794	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. ... Although you're a little late, go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42795	Thank you very much. As for Slavonia and Baranja, the situation there is extremely difficult, especially when we talk about Virovitica-Podravska County, the county means from which I come. She depends primarily on state aid. If it wasn't for the state's help, they say in some way, as my colleague Bernardic said, it couldn't work at all. We also see that the situation in Slavonia is bad this year from all the protests that were farmers. It means the agricultural area and the difference between Slavonia and other parts of Croatia is really getting bigger and bigger every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42796	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would only, although I had no intention, but continued this debate in connection with this happy or unfortunate Slavonia and Baranja and her lags in relation to the rest of the Republic of Croatia, which is evident, Mr Salapic. Well you can't be blind with your eyes because the Croatian Bishop's Conference and the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development and all those who come to Slavonia and Baranja. But let's go back to the subject in connection with the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of units of local administration and self-government. In fact, the articles in this law are interesting here, and I would, in particular, read the article 7 on page 3 several times, which says that every building, part of the building or apartment used occasionally or seasonally is considered to be a holiday house. So I ask those who from Split, Dubrovnik, Osijek or Vukovar have an apartment in Zagreb, who use it occasionally when they come to the game or theatre or I don't know what or on the trip, do they pay the same tax as the continentals who have holiday homes at sea? Do the units of the local self-government of the City of Zagreb, where there are numerous apartments of private persons from all other parts of Croatia, pay the same tax to the local or regional self-government unit? They don't pay. Nobody pays. And actually the properties that are listed here are the same. When's the exception to paying these apartments? If they are used to store agricultural machinery or to save crops. No one in Zagreb has a place to store agricultural machinery or to save crops or anything like that. So here's one to say a gap that's very obvious and nobody here mentions. Furthermore, Article 13 of this Bills and Amendments mentions in some sense the gambling and the incomes from automatic taxes and other games of chance not to mention now which, darts etc. These days I get information that all over Croatia is due to some kind of savings that is prescribed from above the suspension of casinos, the automatic club in Požega and in Benkovec and others. It is about Croatian lottery institutions or companies and with the dismissal of 128 employees of the Croatian lottery who are employed for a certain period of time. Is that a contribution to local administration and regional self-government? I don't know. Is it good to cut the branch on which it sits and which achieves income both to the state and to the full state budget I also don't know. If the provision to cut Croatia's lottery costs by 10% is the right way to fire 130 employees or reduce salaries by 10% and so far they have not been reduced by our parliamentary representatives and as other employees in public and state services. It hasn't been reduced so far. It's really the wrong way. And when I talk about it, therefore, it is clear about the tax itself that the tax on, the new tax policy that was to be followed and for which there are proposals in this House from certain clubs should finally come into the parliamentary procedure. It is also clear that there is no clear fiscal decentralisation, but I do not understand the position of my colleagues from the SDP who are in principle in favour of decentralisation, and then honour the Government of the Republic of Croatia as they said the discretionary model of which the Brod-Posavina County receives 10 million kuna. Not 10 but 10 and a half, 10 and a half for this year. So what he's saying is that the Ship-Posavia County, which is the last fiscal capacity in the Republic of Croatia, should be pushed even deeper. Once the SKH agreed as the leading political force in the former Yugoslavia that there was a Solidarity Fund between the republics of the former Yugoslavia and was then transparently taken from the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia for other undeveloped republics. How is it that today, in Croatia alone, independent of our Croatia, we cannot in any way be solid with those who have been brought not by their own fault, as my colleague here said I will not say on the verge of hunger, it might be excessive. But indeed four Slavonian counties of Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Požega-Slavonska and Virovitica-Podravska are in the last place according to all economic and economic indicators. How come he doesn't have any feelings for them? Furthermore, do you know that 1050 employees have been fired in Brod-Posavina County since the new year. It's above the Croatian average. Therefore, it is clear that it is still said here that during the time of this HDZ rule, there has been a lagging behind these six years. There was nothing better than 2000 to 2004 for Slavonia and Baranja. The agony just continued and nothing else. Therefore, to advocate in principle for decentralisation, and then to protest what the Ship-Posavina County is some indiscretionary right to say got or was delivered from the state 10 and a half million kuna is really groundless. That is why we clearly need further decentralisation of the state, that we need a Regional Development Strategy and a completely new tax policy, which will then be addressed in the financing of local, local and regional self-government units. Until that happens, until it's done I think they'll still be dissatisfied, that the units of local self-government are dissatisfied and that there are such discussions that are contradictory, opposite from all sides either left or right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42798	Thank you. The meeting of the Committee on Economy, to be held at 12.00 hours, will be held at 12:30 at the same place. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the chairman of the Committee, announces a session for tomorrow at 8:30 in the hall "Stepana Radić". Two replicas. The first vice president of the House, Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42799	Dear colleagues, dear colleague Grubisic. I volunteered for this replica because, in your debate, you had no real basis in me and no sense involved in any interpretation of any political views or advocacy of the SDP, or even of our past actions. You know, SDP stands for the system. We are not against such or such funding or additional financing of the county that is constantly in the problem. But we simply think it's not a good solution, because such solutions usually depend on someone's mercy. And we think that funding the needs of local self-government units should not depend on anyone's mercy, or the mercy of those who are in power at the moment. We stand for the system and that's what's true. And don't do it without a great need and without a basis try to create an impression that we are against it to individual areas such as Slavonia-Baranja County are being additionally funded. And I also think that in your debate, it was really not correct to say that there was no difference in the management and means and the state until 2000, even in this last term. It may not have been ideal, but the differences were drastic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42800	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42801	Dear colleagues and vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament, I think your impressions are quite subjective about how it was from 2000 to 2004, and how it was after 2004. I would most like it if you would ask the citizens of Brod-Posavina County when, there have felt some improvement or deterioration in these two ordered periods. As for helping yourself. Well, you see, in Slavonia, we're not asking for help, we're asking that some of the funds stay where they're being achieved, so we live there from our work. We're not even asking for help, and we shouldn't even be giving it to the central government to deploy the funds as it will, as they would say volunteering. Therefore, given that the indicators of Brod-Posavina County and that during 2004, the amount of the original budget of the Brod-Posavina County was equal to or equal to aid for the social care of the inhabitants of Brod-Posavina County, which means somewhere around 35, 36 million kuna, then you know in what state the Brod-Posavina County was. And nothing better is usually not a day today. So, if we weren't, we wouldn't be solid then really, so whatever it is called discretionary law, or I don't know what right, but then it's real, it's not nice of us, and it's not convenient to hear grades like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42802	One correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42803	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I will correct Mr Grubisic's incorrect allegations that the 5 provinces of Slavonia and Baranja have lagged behind, as well as the Virovitica-Podravska to such a degree that it has come to disaster. Namely, I would like to reassure you of the following and disprove your claims and the lies you have made, that this is not true from the point of view of the very budget of Virovitica-Podravska County, which has increased from 72 million kuna to 110 million kuna. This is what investment means, investments in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County. It is the same in Osijek-Baranja as I could see through a number of infrastructure projects, from road, water supply, sewerage, draining, schooling, culture and all other projects that have recently been standing and growing for 4 or 5 years. In fact, your claims disprove the projects themselves that have grown lately. So all municipalities and cities doubled their budgets for investments that came into these municipalities and cities. So you're not actually right by saying that we're in such a backdrop of neglect and lag.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42804	Comrade Grubisic, correcting the incorrect quote. You can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. And the correction of the incorrect quote, yes. ... You can't, no, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation. ... Well, anyway, you said he claimed it was incorrect. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42805	My colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42806	And there are no, they are, there are no corrections. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42807	Comrade Grubishic, part of my line was taken by the vice president, but I'll say the next. Comrade Boro, listen so you can answer. I won't correct the incorrect allegations, I'll give you a chance to answer. In fact, we in these benches, as well as individuals on committees, especially in the Committee on Regional and Local Self-Government, advocate transparency, advocate criteria. Not for subjectivity, because subjectivity is always present. The one who gives is always full, the one who receives is always small. In total, our commitment from these cups, but as individuals, it comes down to establishing objective or objective criteria through the Regional Development Act, because again it is a question of what is objective, which will help those who really need such assistance. But also in the control of the spending of such funds allocated from funds or from the central state budget, were they purposely spent on those purposes for which the company estimated that it was necessary to do so? And I think that's why there's a little contradiction in your performance, because we're getting back into the situation that in the next division of coalition or non-alyst authorities, we're going to happen again that the division isn't based on the criteria of objective, but subjective, who has whom and who has when and where. When a colleague speaks, he mentioned what was invested. Unfortunately, we also have situations where some don't count when it suits them, and some when it suits them, they count what was built from the central ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42808	A colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42809	Excuse me. So I think we should conclude from this debate that we need criteria, we need the law to lose one ball from this unnecessary game.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42810	Answer to the line, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42811	Thanks, buddy. Here you can see the fallout by your criteria that you have stated, although you have not stated that Zadar is most important in this country by these criteria, even though we know that you and I both know that Brod-Posavia County is the last county in the country at its fiscal capacity. Why don't you say so? The county's gross social product is also, the unemployment rate is over 20%. So give me, what criteria do you state to me, and if I didn't know them and why the Ship-Posavia County wouldn't be considered as such a county that. ... Yeah, yeah, that's it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the gentleman. Okay, for Mr. Djakic more or less. He's one of the last county like Brod-Posavina, so he can talk whatever he wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42812	Final review, State Secretary Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42813	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So just for a little while, thanks for the debate, but also in the debate on behalf of clubs and individually. So you have well identified that these amendments and additions to the Finance Act are not introduced and some significant essential measures are taken, but are in line with existing legislative legislation, above all the Budget Act and the Units Act of Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. But also, let me say it. Here are some of these comments that you said in the debate, for sure, they're valid. We will take them, and we have debated some of them and considered them within the government. But also let me just have the debate at the end, since the beginning was so that it comes down to this tax on machines for fun games, specifically to darts, since it's quite often mentioned. So for the first 10 months of this year, county budgets have been incometing 12, excuse me 14 million and 282 thousand kuna from this particular tax, which is not negligible for the level of the state budget, let alone for the county. However, it should also be said that a specific case, a concrete fun game of darts, participates very little under a million kunas. Also in view of this net final debate on the said discretionary law, I think that as regards the criteria of granting assistance to local, regional self-government units and also their borrowing criteria are very clearly defined in the law on budget implementation, tomorrow you will have before you and you will also have to discuss the budget and also the law on enforcement from which you will see that nothing has changed the fact that the criteria remain very transparent actually there is no room for any discretionary decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42814	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Second, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, first reading. The Proposer is the Government. I am voting on the following conclusion: the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant, in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Let's go vote. The result? With 83 for and 4 abstentions, 3 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. Before us is the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of double taxation. I must say here that this Treaty was signed in 2002, that in 2004, the Croatian side noticed tiny technical differences between these two Treaties and which must be answered on the other hand, so that it was sent by note through the Embassy to the Republic of Indonesia, and the Indonesian side accepted it in 2009. This is merely technical amendments, and in Article 5(3), the word ‘no’ is deleted, and in Article 27(2) b. the term ‘signed’ is to be replaced by ‘the entry into force’. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42818	Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We said we'd vote about 12 hours to expand the agenda, so I'm asking first to determine if there's a quorum. Let's move on until we have a quorum. I'm opening a debate. And the first is on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mrs. Vesna Buterin, please. I'm asking the clubs if they can, so we don't fall off now, but go back to the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42819	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community's club accepts the proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes. It is actually a contract that is very similar to the Treaty of the Republic of Croatia with Armenia which we have only actually discussed before, and then I will not repeat some of the basic provisions of this Treaty. Therefore, the starting basis for the conclusion, for the negotiations in the conclusion of a double taxation agreement on income taxes and on property as well as in most states, are models that each country makes according to its own tax policy based on the model of a contract to avoid double taxation of income tax and on the property of the OECD and the United Nations. The signing of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of double taxation of income tax is necessary precisely because of all the activities the Republic of Croatia is taking to increase the degree of mutual economic cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Indonesia. When we talk about the economic cooperation of Croatia and Indonesia, then it should be stressed that in 2008, exports of 6 million dollars were the most exported machinery for individual industrial branches 45%, then tobacco 14%, and at least medical and pharmaceutical products about 6%. In the same year, Croatia's exports from Indonesia amounted to 71 million dollars where the highest imports of rock coal were 27%, then shoes 17%, and at least furniture about 4%. It should be pointed out that the import potentials of Indonesia in relation to Croatia, food industry products, then pharmaceutical industry products, construction industry products, electricity and electronic industries, housing and business space products, oil and gas equipment, fishing vessel and vessels and equipment for military and police purposes. The most prospective sectors in which Croatian companies can participate are building and equipping residential industrial and business facilities building roads and power grids. The possibilities of economic cooperation exist through the transfer of Croatian technology to the food industry, mariculture, the pharmaceutical industry, the transport sector, where it is specifically referring to the construction of seaports and terminals and tourism. The areas of possible investment in Croatia are primarily plants in free areas for the production and packaging of industrial and food products of fruit, spices and palm oil intended for the Central and Southeast European markets, as well as for the construction of supply terminals and tourism. Among the numerous bilateral contracts signed, it is currently in the process of five contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia. Some of them, here I will specify only some, are a contract on agricultural cooperation, further the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on Economic and Technical Cooperation and others. The Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes shall regulate ways to avoid double taxation of income and profits. This contract allows Croatian, construction and similar companies not to pay profit tax in the Republic of Indonesia if these works last less than 6 months. The provision of consulting services will be considered a permanent business unit if it lasts longer than three months in any 12-month period. And here's not to be too long. Finally, I would like to say once again that the conclusion of such mutual state contracts is certainly the basis for the development of economic relations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Indonesia. And that is why the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the adoption of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42820	Thank you. Do we have or do we not have the quorum to continue? We don't. Let's move on. How much? Please report to me when we have a quorum, we're going to vote. Thank you. We have a quorum. We interrupt the debate on this item on the agenda and I propose an addition to the agenda. We're continuing with this agenda point that we've just skipped. Let's get on with it. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42822	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, this morning we had a ratification of a similar contract with Armenia. Now we're doing it bilaterally with Indonesia. And you're going to let me repeat some details and deepen something that I should be told here in connection with such ratifications. In fact, I agree with what the secretary of state has been said in the introduction that the objective of such bilateral agreements is to improve economic co-operation, but in the club of the CNS, we believe that we should do much more than confirm such stereotypes of pattern contracts, that we should work much more on one systematic approach, on the coordination and organisation of colleagues and colleagues, in which we, as Parliament representatives, too, must participate. So let me say a few words on that subject. In fact, this agreement we have on benches is one framework proposed by the OECD and the United Nations, and we use it in the conclusion of such bilateral agreements, but no one by the UN or by the OECD prevents us from essentially installing in these contracts certain specifics which are relevant for bilateral cooperation between the two countries, and so I intervened and refused to consider that the specificity between Croatia and Armenia is not in any way maritime traffic, but that this should be certainly something quite different since Armenia is not a maritime country, etc., that I am not here again. We, Mr. Secretary of State, didn't think we should change this contract we have on the benches. We understand it took seven years to coordinate it, and we don't need to run from the fact that it needs to be ratified here. But what you need to say, Mr. Secretary of State, is something that's missing. Each third parliamentary representative sits in some parliamentary assembly of an international organisation. I am specifically sitting in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It would be good to get an add-on with the contract that will tell us clearly what companies are, the companies that cooperate on the relationship between Croatia and Indonesia, where we work together, which is the goods traffic. We heard from fellow Buterin that imports from that country are 12 times higher than exports to that country. Why is that, you didn't explain it to us. What do you see in the Chamber of Commerce of potential future forms of cooperation? How many of our citizens live and work there, how many of their citizens live and work here? It would be logical, however, that when such a contract is concluded on your part and by the Government, one obligation comes to us in the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe, as well as other parliamentary deputies, that in the January month when we meet in the Council of Europe, we invite colleagues from Armenia, their parliamentary delegation, to sit together, to tell them that we have ratified that contract, to try to agree on how to improve that economic co-operation. So each of us can and should make a contribution through parliamentary diplomacy to make a lot of changes in our mutual relations with the countries with which we make these deals from week to week. I want to repeat here what I was saying a few months ago. When does the British Prime Minister, the German Chancellor or the French president leave for some state visit, you know where he collects personal information? It's right from the businessmen. Their role and our role should be primarily economic diplomacy. They know exactly what they will say in the country they are visiting, which will benefit their companies or in terms of placing goods on that market, or the reverse imports from that market. We don't have any information. You put these cheap contracts on the table without any additional information. I want to participate in this process in a perfectly correct way and I believe that many others would do so here from parliamentary deputies but you're not giving us a chance. So our request after we ratify the contract gives us an opportunity to cooperate in a significantly different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42823	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of double taxation of income tax. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract in question. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? Unanimity with 94 votes for passed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42826	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. Only briefly on this Act confirming the Funding Agreement. Therefore, the aim of this law is to confirm the 2008 financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities relating to a multi-user programme for nuclear safety and radiation protection under the 2008 pre-accession assistance instrument in the decentralised management of an international contract that will organise a financial, technical, legal and administrative framework within which two nuclear security and radiation protection projects and funds will be implemented for 2008. In addition to using pre-accession assistance through the IPA programme at national level, Croatia is also a user of a multi-user IPA that is centrally prepared in Brussels and the funds can also be used for projects at national level. Since this funding agreement in question creates financial obligations for the Republic of Croatia in the form of social co-financing of the project, the debate in the Parliament and this law is subject to discussion. In fact, on 18 December 2008, a multi-user programme for this area of nuclear security and radiation protection was approved, and this is to help the Republic of Croatia improve its standards in this area, so... comply with standards in the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the decentralised component of this agreement, it also has a centralised and joint management of two other components, in this decentralised component, two project proposals proposed by the Republic of Croatia totalling 1.2m euros, 200 000 euros for the national co-financing of these projects, and will be implemented by the Central Agency for financing and negotiating on behalf of the State Nuclear Security Office, i.e. on behalf of the State Institute for radiation protection. The agreement was signed on 30 September 2009 and needs ratification in order to use funds in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42827	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, environmental protection, spatial planning and construction, finance and state budget? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42828	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First, let me say that without further ado, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law because any lip that comes into the state budget, any lip used to strengthen the infrastructure, especially in such an important area, is more than welcome, but now comes the one but. You see, we get this law almost before the end of this year when we're actually late with deadlines, so we're more forced to pass this law than we actually kind of do, and we want to. In fact, it's about funding two projects. One project refers to the National Nuclear Safety Institute, the other refers to the State Institute for radiation protection. And the first project is essentially a project relating to strengthening the administrative capacity of the National Nuclear Security Institute, i.e. the regulatory body responsible for nuclear safety and security in Croatia. So this body has in its work a task actually to deal with the safety of nuclear facilities in the Republic of Croatia that the Republic of Croatia does not have. And the only purpose of the existence of this state-run governing body would be to take care of the security of nuclear power plants that, I said, the Republic of Croatia does not have, except that it is co-owner of the Krško nuclear power plant located, true God, near the city of Zagreb as the largest population centre. However, if the Republic of Croatia wants nuclear facilities and nuclear power plants, then the government should say explicity. That's what the Energy Strategy should have said. I understand that, because there is actually no way to comply with the Kyoto protocol, to ensure sufficient amounts of energy in the future in the Republic of Croatia, especially when thermal power plants fall out of service for two, three years, but the fact that the government did not have the courage to express itself. And paradoxically, we read in the project description number 4 that one of the main tasks is funding says, when, here, I quote: "when dealing with radioactive waste goes to the Commission of nuclear power plants, the support that will be provided to this project should be particularly focused on determining the decommissioning plan, assessing the costs of handling the resulting radioactive waste and the issue of radiation protection." So we get money for a project that deals with the decommissioning of nuclear objects that we don't have. Moreover, let us remind ourselves that Mrs Kosor's government, in its programme presented to this Assembly, said on page 35 of the Government of Croatia's 2009-2011 programme, a new strategy and spatial planning programmes of the Republic of Croatia that will exclude nuclear waste disposal should be adopted. So, we also give up nuclear waste disposal through the government's programme, but here we are now taking a loan to strengthen the infrastructure that will deal with governance and decommissioning of the same. And the question arises, Mr. Secretary of State, where nuclear waste and radiological waste are delayed, resulting from normal hospital work. Is that going to the trash in Yakushevac, where's it going? In the Republic of Croatia, we have some 70 sources of ionising radiation distributed across various institutes, hospitals, etc. who are mature for storage, but we don't have warehouses. We don't have any dumps. In fact, there is one warehouse at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, but the question is why would the Ruđer Boskovic Institute as a top scientific institute in the Republic of Croatia turn into high-tech waste guards, which they are essentially, because the only harmony is the waste storage facility, the warehouse. So, the temporary warehouse is located at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. So, not three miles from this Parliament. At the largest population centre of this part of Europe, while here the Government is denying its programme any idea of creating an object that would be made according to rules and according to the rules of the profession, that nuclear radiological waste created in our country by normal work of hospitals, normal work of industrial plants, research centres after the use of compliance with the rules of the profession and the international community. Here, it's really a paradoxal question of this for Project 4. But it's good for people to get schooled. The government may even have some intention to take some step towards nuclear energy before the end of its term, and therefore try to raise this infrastructure to a sufficient level. However, we have another outstanding problem related to project number five concerning the control of the radiation of patients from medical radiation. Therefore, the State Department for radiation protection, and this problem is made up of huge non-compliance with the practice of the European Commission, with the practice of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Since the inspection body is not in the State Department for radiation protection, it is Mr. Honored Secretary of State who is in the Ministry of Health. And then we got a cadiya situation suing, cadiya judging. Because many X-rays, many X-ray machines in many hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, are slightly exotic. However, because of the lack of funds, there is nothing to be implemented or seen through their fingers or we can believe that it is seen through their fingers. Because the same ministry manages the X-rays, and it manages the inspection that controls it. And it is a huge inconsistencies which, on several occasions, are the gentlemen of the European Commission who have come so-called. ... established in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] And that is, in fact, interestingly, it may also be one reason why it will not close easily at the end and all the chapters in the negotiating process of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, so it could happen that somewhere within five minutes or minutes before 12 we here at the Parliament must have the Law on the formation of the ministries and bodies of the state administration in order to transfer the inspection from the authority of the Ministry of Health to the jurisdiction of these state bodies dealing with radiation protection as it has been missed already on several occasions when this law was held here at the debate in the Assembly. But at that point, more important issues were being discussed, not seemingly small issues. So we have two bodies dealing with nuclear safety and radiation protection. The question arises why there are two bodies and if the answer is to keep one in preparation, to manage future nuclear power plants well, okay. It's a nice, smart, clear answer that we unfortunately can't get like that. Because for countries of the size of the Republic of Croatia, it would be more appropriate to have one body dealing with the Protection Act, i.e. with the problem of protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security, and not to have two directors, two deputies, two financial sectors, etc., and not even located at the same location, but one moved to a much nicer location, and not as before, whether they were located floor above and floor below as recently as before. Apparently, according to unofficial information, however, parliamentarians will have the law to bring the two parts together into one. But Mr. Secretary of State, I urge you to consider the idea of an inspection relating to radiation protection from the Ministry of Health's intelligence moving there and where it should be, i.e. in this new institution or the State Air Protection Office, as only then will the European Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency be satisfied with the compliance of our system dealing with radiation protection and nuclear safety in some ways. Why in some ways? Because we still don't have a plan and a program of procedures for nuclear accident, even if the Krško nuclear power plant was close to us, at least we have 70 sources all over Croatia that are questionable because, as I said, we don't have a disposal of radioactive waste, and we have one storage facility that's essentially not a storage facility, but part of a scientific institute. And therefore, we do not have a plan and a program of action in the case of a nuclear incident, although on several occasions this has been warned both in the Assembly and during the debate on other laws that address these issues. We don't have that. We don't. It's about time we did it. I ask a rhetorical question why our negotiators have not negotiated and at least aid for such a single component within these two projects which are, here I think there is nothing to add to them given the expertise of preparation and what will essentially provide a common system of radiation protection and nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia. But they're incomplete. Uncomplicated, the entire system is missing. Generally, as I said, I support this law, but with all these remarks on which the government should seriously consider having a better situation than the situation is east, if you have read a description of the situation of the European Commission on the state of protection against nuclear safety radiation in the countries of Southeast Europe, that is quite worrying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42829	Thank you. HNS representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42830	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal confirms the agreement signed on 29 June 2009 on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities and concerns part of a more user programme for nuclear safety and radiation protection. Here I will briefly mention the areas covered by this bill: financial, technical, legal and administrative framework, within which the projects in question will be implemented in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection. The second area relates to the descriptions of the Community support programme in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection for Croatia. The general objective of this programme is to contribute to nuclear safety and to the protection of radiation in candidate countries in the European Union, which are beneficiaries of grants. The above-mentioned financing agreement in the Republic of Croatia will therefore finance two projects. The first concerns strengthening the administrative capacity of the National Nuclear Security Institute. The aim of this project is to improve the technical capacity of this regulatory body in two different areas by means of nuclear control measures, and through the management of radioactive material and the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. Another project refers to radiation protection during medical radiation. So the aim of this project is to protect against radiation in medical radiation in a way that reduces the exposure of patients and workers to ionising radiation in health institutions in Croatia. There, the secretary of state also spoke about funding, so I will not repeat it, I will only conclude that representatives of the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42831	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42832	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The European Commission Decision of 18 December 2008 granted a grant of 952 000 euros to the Republic of Croatia under the IPA Programme for Nuclear Safety and radiation protection projects. The general objective of this programme is to contribute to nuclear safety and to protect against radiation in candidate countries in the European Union, which are beneficiaries of grants. The projects have been selected to contribute to a significant improvement in nuclear safety and radiation protection within their concrete objectives. It is mainly about activities in the area of institutional construction through the provision of support to the authorities responsible for nuclear safety,... the number 4 of the contract and the bodies entrusted with certain tasks relating to the control of medical radiation project No. 5 of the contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to stress that strengthening the technical capabilities of national nuclear safety regulators and protecting against radiation assumptions to improve the radiological situation in the Western Balkan countries. Go on. The transfer of the Community's legal property in the field of nuclear security, in particular on radiation protection, is subject to the existence and proper functioning of those regulatory bodies. Given the fact that, in most Western Balkan countries, regulatory bodies for nuclear safety and radiation protection are weak in development or have not yet been fully established, no clear national strategies have yet been set to address radiological issues. It is expected that, thanks to the support of the IPA programme, it will be possible to develop in the near future, and on this basis, the plans established for the full transfer of the legal property of the community to national legislation and regulations. The programme will also coordinate with other financial instruments dealing with nuclear issues, i.e. a nuclear security cooperation instrument and a stability instrument. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42833	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42834	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to say something about the situation described by the European Commission regarding nuclear safety and radiological protection in the countries of Southeast Europe, or what they say to the countries of the Western Balkans. And says Western Balkan countries face a number of radiological issues related to the use of radionuclides in numerous industrial and health applications. Secondly, monitoring radioactivity in the environment is a significant radiological issue. Third. National safety authorities established whose task is to regulate nuclear safety and protect against radiation in most cases are weak, both in terms of staff and according to level of expertise. And a fourth. Support can be provided through multiple user projects and national projects in scope, depending on the area. I am pleased to say that under number three, as far as national safety and regulation authorities are concerned, nuclear safety and radiation protection are, in most cases, weak. That's not the case with us. We have good experts, we have a relatively good infrastructure, but with these failures I was talking about, so the problem of an inspection that is not as independent as it should be and with the fact that we do not have a plan and a nuclear accident protection programme, our regulatory bodies are good. In particular, it should be commended for the fact relating to point 2 of the monitoring of radioactivity in the environment related to that point, the doctrine of our regulatory bodies is more than good, because it is appropriate for the State of our size to monitor the radioactivity of the environment is entrusted to scientific institutes, so to the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine, and to the Ruđer Bošković Institute. Why is that good? Because scientists don't have binary access to problems, they don't have, that, no, there isn't, contaminated, not contaminated, dangerous is not dangerous. Even in view of all the happiness of the level of radioactivity of the environment in the Republic of Croatia is more than good and we have a clean safe environment, given that component, but still scientists who conduct monitoring within their normal activities are trying to find trends, trying to find real values in order to make predictions, models, long-term behaviour, and to make certain conclusions that are exactly necessary for us, or people who ultimately make certain decisions. And it is necessary to continue with such practice, as much as necessary to encourage such a system to monitor environmental pollution in other segments to the fullest extent possible for scientific institutions, professional institutions, because then data are more quality and the whole situation is more favourable for both the country that receives relevant information and for institutions that are essentially given the opportunity to give their expertise to raise younger generations of experts, scientific recruits, etc. So it's something that's for every commendation and that's how it should go on. With regard to the situation in Project 2. Therefore, I would also like to warn patients that certain organisations or medical hospitals, such as dentists, possess certain equipment, sources of ionising radiation especially with an x-ray that are not often controlled, the state does not even know, has no information that they exist. Dentologists act fairly markety at any time and then send them to record their teeth more frequently than is necessary, thus raising the level of radiation and collective dose, which is inadmissible. And even some state institutions have certain apparatus that need those xtr-fs, so X-ray machines for some scientific and professional studies that are not registered at the State Department for radiation protection, the question is how they are imported into the country at all, which is done by the state administration at customs. Such things definitely need to be corrected in order to improve the functioning of the entire system, it is necessary, once again, to emphasise and make a solution for the inspection to be taken out of the Ministry of Health and put under the jurisdiction of these administrative bodies, which deal with the issue in order to remove and accept any God on any conflict of interest or independence. Finally, I stress once again the need to systematically comply with the rules of the International Atomic Energy Agency, whose country we are a full member, in accordance with the legal gains and experiences of the European Union, to make it a waste storage site if not a dump, then at least a waste storage facility, from which one day when we agree to take this waste with us and to put it in a dump and take it off the rules of the profession, and not to have problems to throw this waste uncontrollably in the garbage dumps, pour it into the sewers and put it into danger both people and the environment. So, all these things really need to be settled, and if my unofficial information is true that this Law relating to the unifications of the National Institute of Nuclear Safety and the State Department of radiation protection into one body will come before the MPs, it is indeed necessary to make and count all that to ensure that this segment is impeccable to us and to the pride and discipline of not only Southeast Europe, but throughout Europe, because we have knowledge, we have experts, we just need political will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42835	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42836	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning part of a multi-user programme and nuclear safety and radiation protection under the pre-accession aid instruments for 2008 (decentralised management). The aim of the adoption of this law is to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic and the Commission of the European Communities concerning part of a multi-user programme for nuclear safety and radiation protection under pre-accession aid instruments for 2008 (decentralised management) of an international contract establishing a financial, technical, legal and administrative framework within which the projects in question will be implemented in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection for 2008. The general objective of this programme is to contribute to nuclear security and protection against radiation in the Republic of Croatia Although it is an agreement that constitutes a standard content and format agreement that the European Commission usually makes with all receiving countries of this form of financial assistance, and on the basis that the funds intended to implement the projects can be realised, it should be noted that the proposed financing agreement is the basis for the use of 7 million 720 kuna financing for its implementation, parallel to the state budget to ensure co-financing of one million and 516 thousand kuna. The funds are allocated under the IPA programme for nuclear security projects and radiation protection. From the running projects, the European Commission has chosen projects to contribute significantly to improving nuclear safety and radiation protection in its concrete objectives. The objective financing agreement in the Republic of Croatia will finance two projects. It is the first to strengthen the administrative capacity of the National Nuclear Safety Institute, the managing body responsible for nuclear safety and security. We know that the National Nuclear Safety Institute participates in the process of issuing and agreeing and allowing nuclear facilities to be built, is authorised to license and issue nuclear facilities licences, keeps records of nuclear material and data on the same, sets up, monitors and readings of measurement cells that show the level of presence of nuclear materials, measures the radiation of nuclear facilities, power plants and in the event of a nuclear accident provides an assessment of the situation, explanation and recommendation for action. The objective of this project is to improve the technical capacity of this regulatory body in two different areas. Measures to ensure the control of nuclear materials, the handling of radioactive material and the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. The project user is therefore the State Nuclear Security Institute. Another programme financed is radiation protection during medical radiation. And only patients. Before we know it was protected by employees who worked or worked on devices as they wanted to protect themselves today. The system of good practice will use all technical solutions. The aim of this project is to protect against radiation during medical radiation, and it is linked to reducing the exposure of patients and workers and ionising radiation in health institutions in Croatia. The project should be completed by a comprehensive evolution of patient doses and by contributing these doses to collective doses as a result of the application of different specific radiological techniques. By comparing the project with each other, it should contribute to optimization, the arrival of healthcare workers. The project is used by the State Department for radiation protection. By confirming this Agreement, it constitutes a legal basis for the use of Community financial support in the field of nuclear security and radiation protection. In view of the objective of adopting this law to contribute to nuclear safety and to protect from radiation in the Republic of Croatia and that the deadline for the conclusion of the financing agreement is 31 December of this year, I am giving full support to the adoption of the letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42837	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42838	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I will be very brief given that colleague Hursa presented the position of the Croatian People's Party club. However, I would like to say a few words about something we did not mention today. I will only return to the general objective of this agreement. It aims to contribute to Croatia's nuclear security as a candidate as a member of the European Union. It's mostly about colleagues and colleagues you've seen about help. Who? On the assistance of the competent authorities in charge of nuclear security. One project aims to help the State Nuclear Safety Institute, and another is to help the State Institute to protect against radiation. So, obviously, although we like to call ourselves a knowledge society, the European Union does not think that we have all the necessary knowledge as a future member of the European Union and are willing to help us with the grants in this process, which is very, very good and should be highlighted here. But as Parliamentarians, and I believe that your colleagues and colleagues are all interested in the same things, I would speak the following way about this agreement. I'm interested in four things. First of all, the financial basis of this agreement. That's the answer we got. The European Union gives just over 7 million, the Republic of Croatia a million and a half kuna. Secondly, I'm interested in the content of the agreement, the objective of the agreement. And answers and contents, I think we can be satisfied. However, the realisation of the agreement not only this but also many similar projects that we are doing with the EU's resources is not always under our control, nor do we always have the necessary information on how to implement these agreements. And a fourth, but maybe I should go back to this third first. We get one piece of information through those annual reports on the use of pre-accession funds, but only in rough lines, not in particular. And fourthly, the evaluation of the results achieved in practice. Now, that's never available to us. I will never know what shifts were made in clinical action in diagnostic medicine by applying these new measures of protection and safety. So I would suggest that I don't know which way, that it would be good if we ratified these agreements to bind the government and the individual ministries to return the information later on regarding phase 3 and phase 4 doesn't have to go to the plenary session, it can go to our home working body. So they'll conclude that, with full right, we ratified that document, the results are determined, we don't have to go any further. But if it happens that our home working body is not satisfied with the realization, and especially with the application and results of a project, then I think we should at times wonder why things didn't go the way we expected. Namely, I fully agree with my colleague Franic, who also spoke here about other additional security-related elements, nuclear security. He spoke of the need to provide adequate storage facilities for radioactive materials. Of course it's not a simple story. We can't even put all the radioactive materials in the same story. One is medical radioisotopes to call them what is used in medical diagnostics. They have a relatively short half-life, so in most European countries they store them in super-earthly specially built buildings. I think the example of France and Sweden can tell us a lot in that direction, in which we should work. The second is clear radioisotopes derived from a process that takes place in a nuclear power plant whose half-life is extremely long, thousands and tens of thousands of years. Then it is clear about the need to deposit such materials deep underground clearly where we have stable soil. Croatia has no such soil. Therefore, one day we will have to think about exporting such materials. Australia has such a stable soil, in the Sahara, something in northern France and something in Sweden that then took advantage of it. Clearly this story should be further developed, not only should we include the profession, but also policy should be included because policy will have to provide considerable resources to address tomorrow's matter of depositing these materials and the safety of our citizens in the long run. Here, that's what I was gonna say. I think we clearly need to take a lot more steps to solve the problem to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42839	Thank you. Replica Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42840	The esteemed colleague, along with these categories of radioactive material that you have listed, is another category, and these are teletherapy devices from these cancer clinics, then fire alarms, high-boilers and pipelines, etc. I'd just like to remind you that the second worst nuclear accident in the world was a peacetime accident in the Brazilian city of Guyana, with 157 grams of cesium in a teletherapy device that wasn't taken care of by 5,000 tons of radioactive waste. A few dozen limbs were amputated, two human lives lost and a gross social product of $5 billion was damaged in Brazil. A half-metre layer of land in the neighborhood has been removed all because they did not have an effective material disposal system created by normal peace activities in science, medicine, education, economy, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42841	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42842	Comrade Franic, I thank you for your help. I did not mean to go into details but I thought to open a clear story in a way that shows that this intervention of the European Union is not the end. By helping us to expand our knowledge 10, 15, or 20 employees of a state institution, it does not clearly mean that we have removed complete responsibility from ourselves. As Parliamentarians, we must also talk about how to solve other segments that are the same, so I thank you here and for your contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42843	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. It shall continue at 15 hours with a debate on the report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2009. The final proposal of the Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concerning part of a multi-user nuclear safety and radiation protection programme under the 2008 pre-accession assistance instrument, decentralised management. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 95 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42845	Here we continue with the afternoon part of today's work of the Croatian Parliament. The next item on the agenda is - Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2009 The applicant of this report is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government submitted this report on the basis of our conclusions from October 2005. You received the proposal by mail. The debate on this report was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on European Integration. You received those reports at the session. Here I ask the motionary's representative, State Secretary Ms Ivana Maletic, would she further explain this proposal for a report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42846	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I will briefly pass through this report on the use of pre-accession programmes to assist the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2009. Already in several reports that I had the opportunity to present, we have actually looked back on the first generation of pre-accession aid programmes, which are CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD, which are actually allocated from the European Union budget from 2003 to 2006. And here it is very important to say that when we actually present this first generation of pre-accession programmes, we are not looking back on the past, but on the present because alllocations in the European Union budget are not related to the year when they are allocated but pre-accession aid programmes, and also future funds have one time scale within which they are used so that the year of alllocation just means the year when the funds are allocated. Even financial agreements for the start of use of these funds are signed with a time-out, followed by the negotiation and implementation of projects and payments, so that the first generation of pre-accession aid programmes are still current and, for example, by the rules of the European Union. The CARDS 2003 pays by 31.12.2009, so it's still ongoing, the CARDS 2004 to 31.12.2010 and so on all other programmes, PHARE 2005, PHARE 2006, ISPA and SAPARD. What is important is to point out that we can start underlining some first lines and draw first conclusions on how well we use pre-accession aid programmes so that now with this date on June 30, we can actually conclude that we have been allocated, means assigned to CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD 297,23 million euros, and that we have contracted 239,80 million euros and 80,68%, respectively, with the negotiations still following. Two major infrastructure projects are currently under way. It's "Bikar" and "Carl's". Reports were sent to the European Commission delegation for control. I just need to point out here in particular that right now, we are working in a system where every step is monitored, monitored, controlled and approved by a delegation of the European Commission and the European Commission itself. Therefore, any document, paper to be produced in the system, shall be sent to the European Commission for approval and control of the delegation. It's so-called. Decentralised system. Only in an extended decentralised system does the country receive the right to fully implement and tender procedures and projects and then to control ex post or ex-post. When it's over, the auditors are coming to see if the country has done it regularly and according to the procedures prescribed. So, but the current system in which we work is the system in which all the documentation is sent for prior control and approval in the European Commission delegation. So, it's an ongoing negotiation of projects in the ISPA programme, so ultimately, as far as the total percentages of the contracted funds are concerned, we'll be more than 80% safe. So it's really about good rates, total contracts when you look at the first generation of pre-accession programs. What we now currently have is actually a second, new generation of pre-accession programmes, which is IPA and as part of the IPA, we have been given the opportunity to actually use the funds in component 1 to further strengthen institutions and join, in the process of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. So it's a component of transition assistance and institution building and this component was de facto created by the PHARE, and that's where the first contracts started. The first projects that have already been implemented have been signed. Also, IPA 2008 in component 1 has moved well. When we look at the total allocations that we received through IPA in the period from 2007 to 2010, it is 592.6 million euros, meaning the significant amounts that are then implemented by the end of 2013 and 14, respectively. A year. So, but alllocations are significant. Of course, these pre-accession programmes are actually preparing the entire administration, and then beyond, countries as a whole, to use much more significant funds that are waiting for us when we become a member state. I believe that you have all had the opportunity to see the financial envelope prepared by the European Commission for the Republic of Croatia and which gives the Republic of Croatia a very clear message that the European Union really wants to help achieve high economic growth rates, economic growth in the Republic of Croatia because it is predicted that as a Member State, we will be able to receive 2 billion and 600 million euros annually from the European budget, and our planned participation in the European budget is 600 million euros. So we see what that is, the net difference between what we are participating and what we will be able to gain and how significant these are for our economy and for really achieving a significant and good growth and development rate. So here's learning through pre-accession aid programmes is our future and our way into realising very important, quality projects that will be funded with assistance, joint assistance from all Member States or the European budget. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42847	Thank you very much. We heard this extra explanation. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate and we're going after clubs with a debate. The first registered club is the IDS club and the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42848	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen, Madam Secretary of State, Mrs. Maletic. Greetings to the boys and girls, more girls than the boys in the stands. All of you, follow me! With the thesis, I'm going to pollemize some but first let me quote a part of this report that we have received on the use of pre-accession funds, so here it is said that the Republic of Croatia is a beneficiary of pre-accession CARDS, PHARE, ISPA, SAPARD, and a unique instrument of pre-accession assistance to the IPA that replaces previous programmes in the financial perspective of 2007, 2013 and consists of 5 components. Component one - transition assistance, institution building. Component two - cross-border cooperation. Component three - regional development. Component four – development of human potential. And component five – rural development through which the Republic of Croatia was allocated 592.6 million euros for the period 2007 to 2010. And then it goes on to say how many million euros we have withdrawn. And now we're asking ourselves if that's a little bit, is that a lot? I absolutely stand at the point that Europe is a chance. However, it should also be said quite frankly that not only honey and milk flow into Europe. What is most important in Europe is the values that Croatia must one day achieve, I don't know from tolerance, from co-existence, from one economic expedition, from freedom of movement of goods without borders, from one society without such express crime as in the Republic of Croatia. It is certainly one thing to do far more in Europe than in the Republic of Croatia. But it is also a fact that in Europe there is no compared to living better than living in the Republic of Croatia. It is certainly one thing that Europe also had a far different history than we had. We've been hit by a war since '91. '95. But it should also be acknowledged that Europe was ready to help us. This report mentions 2007, 2010. In total, we were allocated 592.6 million euros. However, I would also like to say that despite these 596.2m euros, Europe is very interestingly present on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. When I say Europe, then I think of companies coming from the European Union that are very much responsible for, say, their governments. So when we want to say how much Europe has given us, let's say we gave Europe. 93% of the banking market in the Republic of Croatia is controlled by banks from the European Union. Imports at this point this year will be somewhere around $20 billion. 90% of these goods come to our market from the European Union. Our exports are somewhere around $10 billion. We can say about 80% in the area, a little less than 80% of the European Union. The European Union or its companies have taken over leading Croatian companies, such as one INA, have taken over an Istrian ipilon. A good part of tourism or tourism companies are using or controlling companies from the European Union, and I don't know what will happen tomorrow with shipbuilding, and perhaps they will take over other major economic systems from which our lives depend on whether they are Croatian forests, Croatian waters or Croatian electricity. It is clear that I am absolutely against Croatia privatising these national monopolies as I was also opposed to Croatia privatizing the rescheduled banks, i.e. to privatise one of the INAs and similar large companies. But we'll see what happens. This country I dare say is almost bankrupt. It's only a matter of days before some big system is privatized. Why am I saying that? Well, above all, to tell the truth, it is certainly an interest for Croatia to enter the European Union as soon as possible. We today have an external debt of 42 and a half billion euros. We have to return 9.6 billion euros next year. This is about as much as the external debt of the Republic of Croatia was in 2000. It is clearly not Europe's fault that we have invested poorly, that we have spent this money to raise an artificial standard for ourselves. We next year, watch out gentlemen, we have to return about 4 billion euros, and by the year 2000, we have privatized or rather donated banks to foreign banks from Unicredit, Intes, etc. for a half a billion dollars. So, everything we get from the European Union we're Europe, maybe it's a little tentuous to say a long time ago, to pay, to pay. But I absolutely agree that without Europe, we can no longer. Why can't we? Because we need the euro, because at this point we are unable to find a foreign exchange in order to properly service Croatia's external debt. All the things I'm saying, I'm saying not to act like a Eurosceptic around here. I've never been a Eurosceptic. I think that we in Istria have led one of the most European policies that has led this policy elsewhere in Croatia, I suppose, to be in the European Union before one of Slovenia. However, in my opinion, it is a false dilemma that we are forced not to sign that agreement with Slovenia, and we have already ratified it, that there is no Europe. It's a false dilemma that I don't know if we're not privatizing these big systems there's no Europe. It's a lot like that. Here the secretary of state mentioned that we from the European Union will withdraw some 3 and a half billion euros, nearly 26 billion kuna, if I don't know, at a relatively soon time in that association. But to get that money back, that money needs to be earned first. Because far bigger and more interesting country than Croatia Bulgaria, for example. In the first year, she withdrew only 6m euros. In the second year, she withdrew 420m euros. So once again, money in Europe needs to be earned, some of their values should be accepted and so on. The European Union's condition to get us money is primarily to reduce shipbuilding incentives, reduce incentives for farmers, and bring support from 3% to about 0.8% as it stands out in the European Union. If that happens, I'm afraid the shipbuilding, and the Croatian peasants will simply enter the red. I'd like to be denied, but I'm simply in those stories that we can join the European Union in 2012. within two years of withdrawing 3.5 billion kuna, I just don't believe it. For me, let me say it, it's almost nebulous and it's not going to happen. The European Union, on the other hand, should all be removed from our borders. For example. Some have mentioned why, say, Koper port is growing faster than the port of Rijeka, there is no border between Slovenia and Europe, they have railways, and by '72. the year Kopar didn't have it. We destroyed our own. We see what's going on around the river. But let's let it go now. We also need the European Union, not to flee from the Balkans, the Balkans is a geographical concept, so we cannot run from it, but Croatia is like a Balkan and Mediterranean and Central European country and that quality should be used if we flee from our myths and escape from one exclusive policy. We all know that since the Homeland War, no more than 14 years have passed. We all know that the wounds are alive, that the souls are still wounded, but there is also no other one but to try to do everything possible as soon as possible to set or accept those standards so that we can join the European Union. But let me go back to that money again from Europe. Which, whatever the European Union is returning to us, it is already from the Republic of Croatia multiple, I will not say taken but won. However, I see something coming back from the European Union. That's that 500 and how many 92 million kuna, 592 million kuna. So they're returning something, and our tycoons are just taking it and not returning it. They just grab, and they still bring something back. Therefore, between our tycoons, which have now become pillars of this society and Europe clearly need to choose Europe. Now our tycoons want you and power over some candidates for president of the state. When I see how much some of our candidates spend, let's say a million kunas a day, my heart hurts. Not because I can't do it. Of course I can't do that. I wouldn't do that. Now that I see how many poor people there are in this country, that 70,000 pensioners actually live up to 500 kuna, somewhere around 150 grand lives up to thousands of kunas, etc. When a man sees how much misery he asks himself the question, so where are those limits with some that I can spend a million kunas a day? The president of the state in five years can make a million kuna a day, and some spend. In 5 years he can earn 1 million kuna, and in one day he spends a million kuna. The president of the state has a budget in a year of 50 million and spends so much on one campaign. But I'm not going to do it now, so we don't have to do it here now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42849	Mr. Representative, I'm still waiting for you to say something about pre-accession funds, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42850	Yeah, I was gonna say that. That it's a first-class election topic. It's a first-class electoral issue, because we see that individuals will not return money by election, but that they've already done the job for those who finance it. All in all, a normal report as a report. There's only talk and mention where it's spent. We have nothing to add. We have nothing to take away. We agree normally to join the European Union, because I said between those who financially terrorise Croatia and take, and those who take, but still return something should choose these others, which is the European Union, so perhaps they will be the first to control themselves. All in all this report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2009. The IDS supports it. But again, I am able to conclude that there is too little money from the European funds in Croatia, and too much money from Croatia has gone to their interested associations with associations and so on. Thank you, boys and girls.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42851	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Now like this. We have two requests for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42852	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I didn't, I meant what you obviously noticed at the end, so you warned your colleague Cain not to actually discuss, nor is this a pre-election meeting of Presidential and promotion of Mr. Damir Caine's free of charge, but we're discussing pre-accession funds. I mean, it's been 15 minutes, and he hasn't said a single word about pre-accession funds, but some kind of promotion of his own. I don't think that's an option. Especially not with the accent that emphasized the exclusion, speaking of exclusion is actually talking about extremes. What he's trying to say is that someone here today is being extremized, government or coalition or anyone else. So do you know what you're talking about, colleague Cain? Well, give it a shot. I'm here, and you're five terms as long as here, I'm a year and a half, I haven't heard one of your discussions where you stick to the subject. You start from the beginning... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42853	Thank you very much. Well, since I have estimated that the speaker has strayed from the agenda theme, I have warned him of that, and I can respect this breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure was by representative Susana Bilic Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42854	Well, Mr. Vice President, only the speaker has injured Rule 210. I thank the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament for warning him, although I would have done so sooner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42855	Thank you very much. I can reconfirm Article 210 was injured. We also have corrections to an incorrect quote. First respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42856	Thank you very much. counterpart Cain said that 93% of the banking system is owned by the European banks. Since the largest bank in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has no transparent ownership, that it owns some investment funds in which I think it has implications for some of Croatia but foreign banks, I think it is very questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42857	Thank you very much. I have, well, you'll discuss it. I have a question for the esteemed Mr. Boris Matkovic. Have you heard from the correcting of the incorrect allegations? Okay. We continue to discuss clubs, the HDZ Representatives Club and the distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So if we just stick to the subject and that's the report on the use of pre-accession funds for the period from 1. 1 to 30. Six. In 2009, then we can really only determine satisfaction. And that pleasure for at least two reasons. First it's because of the form and looks of the report, and second it's because of the content of the report. We are pleased to see that this report is corely, transparently and professionally made and contentable, but it is also a pleasure to read the data from this Report that all the Republic of Croatia has used and received in pre-accession programmes. The very fact that, through pre-accession funds, it was allocated to 30. Six. 297 million 230 thousand euros, agreed on by 239 million and 800 thousand euros, or 80.68%, and that the final percentage of the contract is not yet completed because we expect and the negotiation and negotiation of the ISPA programme will then be even more acceptable and even more satisfying. Only within the framework of the CARDS agreement programme, which expired on 5 June 2006, agreed projects amounting to 28 million and 690 thousand euros or even 97.69%. And by June 30, 23.29 million or 95.14% of the contracted funds were paid. Also for CARDS 2004, the deadline for the contracts expired on 29 June 2007, and projects amounting to 44.7 billion or 94.61% of decentralised funds were agreed and paid by 30 June of this year 37.11 billion or 84.21% of the agreed amount. Equally encouraging data are from the FARE programme which contains 23 projects worth 71.5m euros, grants or ISPA programme through which 6 individual memos on the financing of six total projects of 59 million kuna, and as most importantly we can point out the greatest benefits of the life benefits of the Republic of Croatia are the restoration of the Vinkovci railway line – Tovarnik, the water and waste water programme Karlovac and waste management in Sibenik-Knin County. It should also be commended that this report very pedantically highlights all irregularities that occurred during the application of the pre-accession programme, and explains the reasons why irregularities were identified, and at which stage they were removed. A system of management of irregularities that detects and eliminates possible irregularities has also been established. Most often, which is also to praise but not many, they are mostly purely procedural mistakes, but there is one that was abuse of the situation, the situation so that 4.5 million kunas were used to obtain old equipment although it was necessary and it was prescribed to use and obtain new equipment. This is also seen and the sanctions have been imposed on that business entity. What we could recommend in the future with all the pleasures that we express, when such deviations are more significant let us know which company, or business subject it is. In this case I will say that it is the company "Vocin Royal" from Slavonia which has misused 4.5 million kuna, but it would also be even nicer if we thought that the names of such were to be kept in the report and not those where purely procedural were errors where correction occurred. I think it's time for all those who differ from the usual way of doing business, and procedures and prescribed conditions to point them out, so let's say in a negative sense. The HDZ Club supports this report for everything here and will vote for its acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42859	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Next is the club of representatives of the HNS, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42860	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I have to say, even though he doesn't have to stand in defense of fellow Caine, it seems to me that most of the MPs didn't understand him, I realized that he had absorbed all the points until the end of the 15th session, that he would never answer again, at least that's how I understood it. But he's not here, so we can't confirm it. Since he said everything, I'm going to ask a few questions to the government's representatives, since we didn't get all the answers we expected. I am not as optimistic as my colleague Maric, nor pessimistic as my colleague Cain. In this report, I would especially point out two sentences. One I like very much, one I don't like at all. So let me read them. The first line I really like. "The early notification system has been established by the European Commission and it publishes the names of the bidders who have committed irregularities and cannot participate in the tender procedures anymore." Great. In fact, colleagues and colleagues obviously if we cannot bring order to our own house, then Europe will help us effectively. So that's very good. Then we have another sentence he wants to highlight, which is: "Croatian institutions have started with serious preparations to get permission to work in the system without advanced control by the delegation of the European Commission, etc. EDIS system. Given the numerous irregularities that are still... registered and registered, I'd have concluded some more of them for a while. Now let's go to these few questions. First, we see that a series of these programs are delayed with negotiation and implementation. It seems to me if I remember correctly that the three-year term is within which the funds must be used. If so, can you tell us if and how much funds have been threatened by this delay in the process of negotiating the implementation of individual projects? Second. SAPARD, I've only got 62% of the funds offered. Why is that? That's very small. It seems to me that there should be a slightly broader explanation of why it is. Third. Cross-border cooperation, this is PHARE in 2005 with the Republic of Italy, only 60% of the funds are used, and 60% is agreed. Why is that? I've tried asking myself, it seems to me that the reason can lie in three factors. The poor ability of personnel to assess these projects, human resources at a subnational level, their lack of knowledge, their experience. And financial problems, i.e. co-financing from the Croatian side. Whether it's a state section or regional-local. There we certainly deserve much more data, to see if there is any specific problem on the ground, whether certain counties, the cities that have entered these projects are not able to clearly do their part. It's often mentioned when I go to certain counties. They often mention to me that they have a lot more ideas, a lot more desires and desires, but clearly they are not able to cover those 15 or more percent as much as we have to give on our part to realize individual projects. Fourth. ISPA, I think she's been going since 2005, six years. These are large infrastructure facilities, i.e. projects. Is these six individual memos a synonym for the contract or not? It's a contract. Because it's not. So I ask you, how many contracts are made, how much is paid and what are the deadlines? We didn't get adequate data from ISPA. Fifth. We've been contacted by people from the field and they say that we must certainly specify in our presentation when we speak in front of the club, that people on the ground are dissatisfied with the cooperation of state institutions in all stages of the preparation of documentation, implementation of projects, etc. with state institutions, with the only exception, the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank them very much. They always contact us and say, they always consult with us, they always ask us. The rest of the departments don't. So, I'm asking you to explain to us why it's so that some can and some can't? That's enough for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42861	Thank you very much. And the last registered club is SDP's respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42862	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Subject or name of today's item Report on the use of the European Union's pre-accession assistance programme for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2009. We at the SDP club expected this report to be in accordance with its name. However, we received a re-report that was almost identical to the report received on 19 March, which was called the Report on the use of the pre-accession programme for the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008. You have almost identical pages completely copied from this report and placed in this report, which means that this report speaks about what was done to use pre-accession funds from January 1st to June 30th 2009, but simply says what we did to use pre-accession funds from the century 7th to June 30th. We are thus creating a slightly misleading picture of our absorption power and the amount of what we used and how we used, because on a comprehensive 60-page report, large tables, large numbers, large contracts that have been signed, it would appear that in these six months, huge financial assistance or support has arrived from the European Union. Unfortunately, that's not a long way from now on. The situation is completely different. Very little or almost nothing compared to expectations was achieved during the reporting period. So we suggest that in future when the government delivers a report to the Croatian Parliament that the name of the report corresponds to the content of the report. Especially in this situation where there's a crisis and we all call for savings. There's no need for you to write to us every six months when you deliver reports about what happened in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, because we're only asking for a report for this reporting period. Give us that in two, three cards of text nice that it happened significantly or what happened during the period for which you give us the report. And this is how we find out again that, for example, three years ago, something was done, that someone there had concluded a contract and that the contract had been realised three years ago or that the contract had not been realised three years ago. Secondly, what we were expecting, and we suggest and invite you to give in the following report all the obstacles that we have encountered in reporting, evaluation and negotiation, implementation and reporting according to each project. It's not about criticizing someone. It is simple to see what needs to be done to increase our capabilities and capabilities when these funds are bigger and more diverse and when the number of users is greater which will be able to apply for EU funds. So, in that conclusion, we must have some lesson in what happened over the past period. Finally, we must have a recommendation that everything needs to be done because the report is submitted to the Croatian Parliament to take some steps, to increase budget funds, to ensure that units of local self-government are registered for this because they will be allowed to decentralised funds, etc. So what this report can read, however, is that there is an increased number of irregularities that say that in the system of governance of European projects there is a growing number of problems. Furthermore, we also have a report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia saying that there is still a stronger Fidbek from AFCOS, so the Office for Correcting Irregularity. All serious problems such as ISPA, as well as the problems of the SAPARD and IPARD accreditation of public procurement from the EU funds and personnel problems are not listed in this report at all. There is not a single word about education in the wider knowledge of all segments of society in the Republic of Croatia and what everything needs to be done. What concerns us, for example, is that until today, the SAPARD agency is still not accredited for measure three and the measure three are public and non-classified CESPAs for which local self-government units could apply throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Second, the forest fire roads of the multi-purpose road are the same unit of local self-government in the first and second danger zone. Then, sewers and wastewater treatment plants of the county with approved deadlines. I think all counties have deadlines. Furthermore, heat used by waste or by-products from agriculture or forestry. We finance all this from the Ministry of Regional Development. So instead of giving money from the Ministry of Regional Development to pave the way for unclassified roads, we could also accredit the SAPARD agency that would then provide those units of local self-government capable enough to take care of these funds and get them from the European Union. These units of local self-government that are capable of today cannot even receive funding from the Ministry of Regional Development as funds from the Ministry of Regional Development are allocated solely and exclusively according to the political criteria. Furthermore, we have a problem with the SAPARD much bigger than it seems on the first wave because through four SAPARD competitions over the past three years it has been agreed through 49 projects just over 60% of the resources available. The total budget of the SAPARD amounted to 33m euros or 243m kuna. This information is alarming because it says that we have not been able to use within three years or 60% of the budget and now we have very little time left for the remaining funds, i.e. in IPA through IPARD we have 33m euros available each year. So in four contests, we haven't been able to use 33 million and now only through the IPARD program will we have 33 million kuna every year. Here we can really talk about the complete unprepared administrative apparatus at the SAPARD agency in the Ministry of Agriculture which has more than 100 employees, so we should look at how many of these employees, how many millions of euros per head of the SAPARD agency we have managed to absorb from, for example, people in SAPARD agencies in some other countries. That would be one, say, parameter that would be a good look. Unfortunately, farmers have no interest in joining the SAPARD project. Why? So because the Ministry of Agriculture, without any criteria, has a return on capital investment programme for farmers, which gives them 50% of their capital investment. And now the question is why would a farmer go into a very complicated application procedure at the SAPARD tender if he can get without any question 50% return on capital investment funds to farmers of the Ministry of Agriculture. But we also have to ask ourselves why there is a project of capital investment for farmers without withdrawing those funds from the European Union, but we are paying them out of the state budget. Unfortunately, some more farmers have not been paid the funds at the request of 2008. In 2009, requirements exist in the total amount of the Ministry of Agriculture. Over 10,000 demands are spoken and more than a billion and a half kuna requests are being made for the return of capital investments. This means that what we will have in the state budget next year at the Ministry of Agriculture for Capital Investment will not be enough to pay people what they bought or invested in equipment or facilities at the end of 2008 and in 2009. And instead of reducing the allocations from the state budget for capital investment in agriculture, to motivate people to go through SAPARD because through the SAPARD they can get hugely significant funds we continue to push them uncritically so that they simply go and apply to the Ministry of Agriculture and buy themselves moss and sometimes machines that go beyond the needs of what the farmer has to process, for example, from the country. We've got IPA next. The report says that the financial agreement on the allocation of the IPA first component 2007 programme between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, signed on 17 November 2008, agreed on projects under the IPA 2007 programme, and a single contract was signed by 30.6.2009. This is what we find alarming because we've wasted too much time putting together all the mechanisms for using IPA funds. If it took us more than a year to sign a financial agreement and a year to start negotiating projects, the question is how will these projects end and the funds will be paid off. It's a formal N+3, says that for each year, we only have three extras to use. There is a similar situation with IPA cross-border cooperation. So far, a competition for cross-border cooperation between Slovenia, Hungary, the Adriatic cross-border cooperation with Italy has been launched, with only Dalmatia, Dalmatia and Istria as a possibility, as an area of cooperation, and cross-border cooperation with BiH, Serbia-Montenegro. A large number of project applications have arrived at the tender, but very few projects have entered into the financing budget due to a small budget. This is why we believe that this segment of European projects that is at decentralised level, which refers to the direct possibility of applying units of local self-government, businesses and institutions in local self-government units, should be significantly increased because we see that where they have the possibility of reporting that we have a far greater number, an inflow of applications than we have the opportunity to respond to these applications, so a large number of very high quality applications remain unsatisfactory or irresponsible in what could or should be realised. And finally, the question here is, we have a project called "Karlovac" in ISPA. We've been running Project Karlovac for three years with these reports. We are again told here, so we have heard that every piece of paper regarding the Karlovac project must be approved by the European Commission. I guess it was also known at the beginning when the project "Karlovac" was put into the project. But you will allow it to be inadmissible that from 2004, when ISPA was signed and the project "Karlovac" was included as one of the projects, ISPA's sub-projects, to this day there is not yet a contract for the construction of the carlovac device, but even as many bidders argue about it because they believe it was a very non-transparent tender and that the chosen poorer, more expensive and inefficient technology as far as Karlovac is concerned. For example, Karlovac has just seen that the political decision was made on which sub-projects will be nominated for some of these projects here in ISPA, and we fear that such criteria will not exist in the IPA, because the Republic of Croatia should primarily nominate projects with greater certainty that they will be realised than those projects where we believe we would be politically notified to do so. We have a wastewater treatment device, Koprivnica, which was nominated and rejected. We have it over and in 2007 it already works and can serve as a display and show and some in the European Union know about its efficiency. And we have a carlovac device that hasn't been signed yet, or a construction contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42863	Thank you very much. Two are correcting an incorrect quote. Dear representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42864	Well, I'd like to correct two allegations from Mr. Mr. Mrsic where he said there was no lesson in how to bridge any obstacles and barriers in overcoming these programs faster. And another indication where he said there was not a word of education in this report, yet it is not a fact. If you look at pages 23 and 24 of this report there you will find it very much to talk about a decentralised management system when the European Commission will no longer be the one in charge of the review. And we need to prove our readiness and meet European criteria, and all based on an agreement signed between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, we are talking about strengthening the number of professional staff involved and improving employees in the implementation of the European Union programme. So it's not true that there's no lesson at all, it's not true that there's no mention of education, or even later on, on the entire page, you've got an irregularity point where that's exactly what you're talking about, but I'm going to discuss it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42865	Thank you very much. And another correction is an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42866	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations, which is that from the title of capital investment, they've created dubiosis over a billion and a half kuna, so absolutely incorrect. Those amounts are much, much smaller. Secondly, new funds for these capital projects should also be provided annually. For information only, with yesterday's or today's days, the rules governing capital support have been abolished, and they have been abolished for the reason that I absolutely agree with you, that the support from 40 to 50% of the investment was, so in agriculture, they absolutely do not act stimulatingly, they are not good, they deter from these programmes that we have, the SAPARD, related to the European Union, and it is clear that such incentives, such capital investments had to be abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42867	Thank you very much. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42868	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director of the Central Agency, colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, affirmatively than my previous colleague, say a few words about the report on the use of pre-accession programmes to assist the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2009. I think it is good to repeat that the Republic of Croatia has total allocated more than 297m euros through the pre-accession programmes CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD, of which almost 240m euros were agreed by 30 June 2009, or over 80% by 30 June 2009. As the contract is under way for the ISPA programme, the final percentage of the contract will also be higher. Payments are under way, so by 30 June 2009 the European Commission allocated 40.3m euros to the National Fund for PHARE, ISPA, SAPARD and IPA 4 programmes. We received a report as one presentation of the use of funds through a list of all projects related to the way and source of funds, meaning one really reviewed report in the tables, and given the pre-accession funding programme, and a new system of reporting irregularities. I would like to point out here that, through the CARDS 2003, 97.68% of funds were allocated through CARDS 2004, 94.61% of allocated funds, etc., and should again be said that the basis of this above all in the Report could conclude that a high percentage of the relations agreed against allocated assets was achieved and that, contrary to the public opinion which has a notion of poor usability, unprepared projects, unfortunately, such tendencies are still seen through the debate of Mršić's colleagues that this is exactly how the opinion of the public changes is informed, and, unfortunately, occasionally, the president of the state who recently said that we have used only 5% of the proposed European funds. I want to highlight here the real quality again contrary to the exposure of one of the predecessors and good co-operation with the employees of the Central Agency for Finance, Negotiation of the European Union Programmes and Projects, indeed their openness, their willingness to come to the field, to help and to prepare the project, in evaluation, of course, until the final use of the funds. And as head of the local self-government unit, and we see that local and regional self-government units are largely participating as users of these funds, I must repeat and agree with State Secretary Mrs Maletic that the European Funds are our future. We are coming from the 2010 budget that we have just no longer available so much resources by the resolution ministries and that we must turn all together towards the European Funds, because they are our future and therefore we need to prepare ourselves even more in the units of local and regional self-government, there must be a better and greater preparation of workers, and for which we see that the funds are also foreseen in the state budget in the coming years and there is always a certain part of the funds for these purposes in the funds themselves. In my town in Pakrac we have known this for a long time and indeed here we are participating in pre-accession funds, in this report it is visible that during the observed period the town of Pakrac is active with two projects, unfortunately from the Požega-Slavon County only the town of Plekernica still participates in pre-accession funds, but here I must highlight the trombone of the capital city of Požega, uninterested for the use of these funds and also until the local elections of an extremely incompetent and uninterested county authority, of course headed by a development agency that has finally been shut down and will be launched new hopes for much more active and quality because of the benefits for us as a unit of local self-government and the county of Požega-Slavonski, which is at the beginning of development with other counties. Finally, I want to highlight one problem that we are coming up with in these new IPA programmes where the project is mainly expected to finance the full amount of the project from the budget of the units of local self-government, and after the completion of the project the funds are obtained back. No matter how high-quality small units of local self-government or even larger, they do not have at their disposal the free funds that can be invested in a particular project in million amounts and only after the completion of the project will they get the funds back and this leads to the problems that I am talking to my fellow mayors and mayors about in which way to find the funds needed to finance the project and the programme and then to get the funds back to the city or municipality. Once again, I want to point out the real satisfaction of the quality of this Report, with one good collaboration with the Central Agency for Finance and Negotiation, and I hope that a whole series of units of local and regional self-government will recognise these funding opportunities, different projects and, more in the future, participate because we hear, we know that there are even greater funds coming from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42869	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have one replica. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42870	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned public opinion as a problem, or that in the perception of the Croatian public they did not recognise the exact data and facts of the assistance of the European Union to Croatia and how we use these funds. You're partly right but it's not the public's fault and not even the media that is public opinion and perception of such, and what she is I'm going to try to explain to you through one joke, I've modified it a little bit: A boy of 15 comes into pizza and orders a jumbo pizza, gets a jumbo pizza to eat pay and to the waiter 3 kuna. Big boy please so it was a jumbo pizza like 3 kunas, says don't be mad it's these 3 Croatian shipyards. In the late 1990s instead of three shipyards were three banks, about this way Croatia is repaying all the funds we have received, were once banks, today shipyards, and tomorrow there will be sources of drinking water.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42871	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42872	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I have to admit, no one laughed, and neither do you, he's pretty sad and I wouldn't agree with him during the joke. Well, here's one way that distinguished parliamentary representatives create one bad opinion of the people about the activities of the Republic of Croatia, the Central Agency, all the resolution ministries towards the European pre-accession funds. A colleague of mine said that, for example, the large Romania received only 6m euros in one year, and failed to look at how much it received a small but much better prepared Republic of Croatia's pre-accession funds. And this joke has to be done a little bit, so maybe it'll be funnier for both of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42873	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Nadica Jelas is next reported for individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42874	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. On this report on the use of pre-accession European Union funds in the first 6 months of 2009 I will say a few principles. We have witnessed these days with announcements that Croatia could withdraw three and a half billion euros in the current seven-year budget of the European Union in the moments following its entry into the European Union by 2013, which is why the year when the current seven-year budget of the European Union ends. Although we heard from the State Secretary in her opening statement that it was 2.6 billion euros, so now I'm not on the clear which is actually the correct data. But from that first figure, it turns out that it would be somewhere at 1.7 billion euros a year. True, whether it's 3.5 or 2.6 billion. Much quieter and much less talk is that at the same time Croatia also has a payment obligation in the common European cash register, somewhere around 1 and a half billion euros in two years. Therefore, for 2012 and 2013 It is obvious, therefore, that nothing is obtained and that it is previously not given, that is, for objectivity, it is always to be mentioned, and this information that the net inflow from European funds is actually significantly lower than that declared. With that fact, one very important question arises. How much of these net assets we are actually trained to withdraw, because the opportunities for withdrawing European funds are defined by two things. On the one hand, it is the administrative capacity of local and regional self-government, and on the other hand it is the absorption potential of the Croatian economy. The fundamental assumption for the withdrawal of European funds is projects, therefore, quality projects. And that Croatia actually has two problems. The first is that in the vast majority of our units, local and regional self-government has no adequate administrative capacity. Therefore, there are no qualified and qualified professionals for the development of these good projects. The administrative capacities are fragmented. We know from experience that every county has its own development agency and that almost every county center has its own development agency. However, the second question is how many of these agencies are trained to design projects, as a significant part of the total resources provided for, therefore, because there are no professional and trained people, one significant part of the planned funds from European funds is heading right for the payment of professional services to European consultants. Therefore, Croatia still does not have nearly enough of its own licensed consultants and that is one big problem. Another problem lies in the fact that the projects financed by the European Union Cohesion Funds and designed to develop below the average areas of development must start with their own money, and the funds then, after the completion of the project, we could say that they are refunding from European funds, i.e. from the European cash register. This certainly implies that local self-government has enough own resources, which in Croatia has a very small number of local, or regional self-government units. A large number of units of local and regional self-government give the impression that Croatia is a decentralised country. But we all know that's not the case. Croatia is a highly centralised country. She's territorially fragmented. Fiscal decentralisation has not been created and this huge number of units of local and regional self-government is actually fiscally powerless. A large number of these units are of their own purpose and they do not have the funds for the cold drive and the municipalities, i.e. the cities, are largely dependent on money from the state register. And we know how the Croatian state shares, it mainly shares in political terms, according to the criteria of political clientism wanted me to admit it or not. And so the underdeveloped remain undeveloped, and the money from the European funds intended for Croatia will be used to some extent by some others who are more capable, who are more willing, who are more resourceful. For example, Slovenia. She's far more effective than us in that story. And finally to conclude. Two important assumptions are the better use of European money. It is on the one hand decentralisation, rationalisation of local and regional self-government and, above all, fiscal decentralisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42875	Thank you very much. Next in line is Honorable Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42876	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Let me point out with a few words exactly because here we are from midterm to midterm somehow following the reports of these pre-accession funds that we are presented here in this House. And I can say that I think that these reports from the debate are somehow more quality, and I think they're even more transparent, although we can't say that it's something now that we've reached the top and it's all very clear here. We know and see that Croatia, apart from the use of the CARDS programme until it was still in pre-accession funds, that the PHARE programmes, ISPA and SAPARD began to become available afterwards, that these programmes were also helping the state to implement primarily and certain reforms needed to implement for one, to join the European Union itself. In these somehow previous funds, the recipients were primarily state bodies, institutions. But the program itself, the SAPARD program that I'm kind of thinking about, and I'm reading more about it and I'm following that part. He was intended primarily to sort of private entrepreneurs. Are these companies or are they private,... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, these pre-accession funds should also allow for a better and economic cost-effectiveness and the creation of a more self-sufficient production, which should, by entering the European Union, survive this competition and European production and surpluses that are likely to be directed towards us from Europe. That's why I think that this SAPHARD program should be one more quality and used, and as such, and should be better, better in the whole of this, in this report in a way more clearly presented to us. What makes me say that? So I think I'm saying because, first of all, we're also talking about the SAPHARD program, as one program that's brought some funding, especially in the first and second competitions. But when we look at the third and fourth contests, when we look at the whole part, we see that in these first 29 programs, in these first two competitions that the larger number has been used. But in these 20 third and fourth competition programmes that we are technically not a single euro, that not a single euro has been paid for these programmes, we see that the total bid is three zeros, paid as well as the fourth 0,00. According to what it is. I think that in these reports, we should try and say in some way that we're being suggested and also by the state administration, etc., which is why these two competitions are somehow here and resulted in some withdrawals, while these two don't. Which is why, in some ways, when we look at these competitions in the first two, it's more or less some companies, or I don't know, d.o.o., while we have more here, maybe, do we have more organizations here, business organizations that either didn't give good programs, or weren't able to create these programs. I think that especially when we talk on the ground and when it comes to the fact that family farms should also participate more in this, many then say that this is the whole administration and all that needs to be done for the SAPHARD programme, that it is a minor for some science fiction that they are very difficult to fulfill. So I think one first conclusion is that we're not ready enough to make these demands, for all of ours, for all the programs that could even come out. The other thing is that here it's more and more showing up, that's these capital investments. Capital investment that was much simpler, much easier to get some funding, but what's going on? It happens here whether what Mr. Mršić said is that I don't know a billion and a half kunas not paid with 10,000 demands or what is Professor. Kovacevic said something less. I don't know what that amount is. But the fact is that capital investments are not paid as they are approved, i.e. the requirements that have come. That's why I think ours, what we often do and our politicians say, should be used by those pre-accession means. I don't know what to do with it anyway. I think that the preparations and what should go for these pre-accession funds, i.e. the requirements for them, should be made much better and in a much better way to make them as such. Are we able to do this, are these agencies that work for some people, or are these companies good quality? Would that cost them, if that's what it costs. With those I talked to making any program to withdraw money from the SAPHARD program, of course it costs, who makes it. Now in this situation, the question arises whether those who incriminate these money, and the program does not pass, how to treat them. I think there's a part of it that's supposed to be the ones that are registered to make such programs, that they sort of account for whether these programs are both resolved and solved as such. And what's just as interesting in the whole story here is the transition to IPARD. Normally this component rural development. I think it's here, we're in the last report already, but it's been very little done since the last time, and I think it should be in that part, is what's going on in Europe that's exactly that rural part that's getting bigger just because of the entry of these other countries. And I think we should do better in that part. Whether this is going to happen, I think it should go as soon as possible, because normally through rural development we will also enrich the possibility of these environments and people, and with us almost 50% of the population lives in rural areas. And finally, quite a question of these irregularities. For Saphard, that's what I'm looking at, especially three cases. I think it's good to have as much background check as possible and as much as possible to point out those irregularities that may be present. Because it's very bad and it's going to be very bad when they are and the larger funds that you've talked about and had to withdraw, if we're not ready, or worse if we try one wrong way to get to those funds to catch us, and then it would be very easy to find ourselves in a situation like I don't know, I read Bulgaria,... Or some others, where their funds are completely abolished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42877	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The time to report individual debates has expired, so we are now certain that there are two remaining discussions. First respected representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42878	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State and the representatives of the ministry. I wanted to make a small contribution to this debate. In any case, I would like to express my satisfaction with the way this report was prepared. Regardless of the remarks made by his colleague Mršić, speaking of how nice it would be to get only a report on two, three pages of the text for the period under consideration. However, I suppose it is very difficult to separate projects within 6 months from all of those projects that started in the previous years, because we discussed this earlier on the Committee on European Integration. It is not an important year when the project is approved, but it is an important course of the years during which the project is carried out and it will be completed in accordance with the contract. And that's why I'm guessing it's hard to separate it the way the MP imagined it. In any case, progress in content is visible. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And I think that's one big breakthrough. And unlike Mr Doric, our representative, I believe that the EDIS system needs to be brought to life as soon as possible and that we need to prove and prove that we are capable of being these members of the European Union, and it is we who can manage our processes, because that is finally the goal. As for these CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and Sapard, we see that it's an excellent result. 80.6% with the negotiation and completion of the project not yet completed. And this results in more than 239 possible million euros being spent on these projects. What's new in front of us and what's going on, it's IPA with 592.6m euros. I also think that this is a major step forward and I also think that these funds are very important and I believe that the secretary of state will ultimately say in its presentation exactly how much it is in the coming years. As I understood in 2011 and 2012, there will be a slightly reduced amount of 2.1 billion euros in those two years, and later 2.6 billion, which will ultimately bring a sum of 14 billion euros in total, and everything is important to help repair the economy, i.e. the economy of the Republic of Croatia and our gross social product. What I would like to look into and comment on myself is this administrative capacity. Since I've had years of experience in local self-government, the fact is that they're not trained enough, the fact is that sometimes there's a lack of information flow, because of one or the other. So it doesn't matter now whether it's the ministries or local officials. But I see that attention is being paid to the decentralisation of all these programmes in a way that the European Commission should not be the one to participate, but to try to train and solve these problems on our own. County development agencies are supposed to be carriers, and that's how it's imagined. And if they are carriers, then they can understand that this fragmentation of local self-government, that through county quality development agencies they will be able to solve and run their projects. However, if the county development agency is not high enough and is not trained enough, then those particularly small units of local self-government have a very difficult chance for a project. Especially in our county until the local elections now, the agency was not well enough teamed up, because we had only one project of the county itself and two projects of the city of Dubrovnik where we fought alone because, without the agency and one project in the local self-government unit in Veli Luka. It's too little for Dubrovnik, because we all talk too much about these pre-accession funds at political level, and when it comes to them, then we don't actually realize them. I think it is necessary to draw close to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially local self-government employees, which are pre-accession funds and where and how they can compete. Otherwise, indeed, those who are more able to fight will be left without these funds and we will not satisfy the cohesion that we are constantly talking about when it comes to the European Union, which is that not only should Croatia be developed but all countries in the European Union be uniformly developed. So Croatia itself will not meet the criteria that we all develop equally. So I think it's an emphasis on as good teamwork as possible, as much as possible on the expertise of the county development agencies through which all these projects should take place. I see you're predicting all this here, but of course it needs to be stepped up a little bit in terms of information towards the county. Anyway, I don't doubt our absorption potential, but I don't doubt administratively either, but I think it's important to step up as you do here in your report. I welcome this report, and I believe that what it says here will come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42879	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by a respected representative, Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42880	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't have anything against the EDIS system, but nothing at all. Just on condition we're willing to work fair and square. You've seen how Europe works. The bidder who made the discount that incorrectly did his part of the job, they eliminated it. No civil rights calls, no invitations to a trade court. You're gone. Besides, there is no need to play with Europe, there is no need to make promises lightly. Let our Slovenian neighbours tell you and they are in the phase of accession to the European Union which they have promised, what deadlines they have promised. Now these terms have passed, the European Court is now making judgments, Slovenia and the new members of the European Union are now paying for a penalty. That's why I'm asking you to understand again what I'm going to say. We simply need to be correct and honest. While we are not, we must clearly strive to have them as allies in the fight against such negative phenomena.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42881	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42882	Mr. Doric, we actually agree. But what I think we need is those experiences of Slovenia that you mentioned to use, which is why we are late for the European Union as I understand it. We need our own mechanisms to strengthen and precisely control our own mechanisms I hope that we will succeed and we will not make these mistakes, there will be no need for such trials and therefore I believe that this time that lies before us can be used precisely for the education of our administration officials especially at local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42883	Thank you very much. Another replica is the respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, listening to a colleague and agreeing with her is exactly education missing at the level of all the counties in Croatia how and how to use the SAPARD funds because the fact is that today in the Republic of Croatia we have a different use of SAPARD funds per county. For example, today we have the fact that some counties have used six projects financed by SAPARD, but it is also the fact that we have a county where no single project has been used. I would like to stress that because I was present today at the SAPARD and IPARD Committee, so I would like to say that just a few words, so the Goran County did not actually encounter one communication and education in local units and the county concerned, so of course this county could not take advantage of the maximum available. That's all I'd like to say. And yet, as the colleague said, education, education and people should be trained and used as much as possible for the projects offered to us through these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42885	Thank you very much. The answer to this line has a respected counsel for Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42886	Perhaps it is also an opportunity to mention and I forgot in my basic debate to say that this report was completed by reviewing the county and units of regional and local self-government to see in fact how which county managed to use these funds. I think it's the same good offering. And what I also didn't say is the 600 million euros that we have in the envelope that we have received, which means that in tomorrow's proposal of the state budget we will in those annexes of the budget hopefully, who has already read, who won't read tonight, which is what the state owes this year and by 2013 in the budget, so that we can secure these allocated billions of euros that we talked about to withdraw. So it is 600m euros that the Republic of Croatia owes by its 2013 budget, if I understand correctly, to ensure that we can spend these funds. So this is a very complex matter. One topic is the education of officials and the other is the subject of the ability of the budget, and the third is to choose the right projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42887	Thank you very much. And we came to the last individual debate. Dear representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42888	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected secretary of state. Here is something I need to say more specifically about the programme with this report and about the Adriatic cross-border cooperation programme under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance for this three-year period. I'm just going to take a quick look at the reason because I come from the area which is the user of this program and whose I was a participant in the creation itself, so I need to say a little bit more detail about the programme itself and about the phase and the funds used so far, specifically, related to this programme. The strategic objective of this programme is to strengthen the sustainable development capacity of the Adriatic region through the coordinated action of partners in acceptable areas. The priorities are defined, the objectives are defined, the activities to achieve these tasks we set. A little over 90m euros has been secured for the programme, the last one ended at the 10th month. I don't think there's gonna be any problem pulling these funds. So I'm sure the withdrawal of funds will be much better than that of others just because the preparation of the programme itself and the binding of the objectives and everything else is much better than so far, which means that we've improved absorption capacity at all levels from local to this state level. When it comes to this programme, I have information that it is enough, so after the completion of the competition that a lot of projects have been run, that they are extremely high quality and that is why I expect that the results after the end of this programme will be much better than they have been so far. I want to point out here, there was a word here about SAPARD, so when the capacities at local and regional level are well prepared that the results are good, so I'm going to set an example of Zadar County and the withdrawal of resources from SAPARD where users, three or four, I think four users from the Zadar County area are users of this programme of very valuable and very large funds, and some of them have already shown their realisation, or have made the more competitive and efficient agricultural sector of Zadar County, they have opened jobs here specifically in fisheries because the users of the two programmes mean "Ostrea" and "Arbammerce" where they employed over 300 jobs in these two companies. So the direct results from the SAPARD program are visible. And something else I want to share here today in this debate with others is the experience or model used in the withdrawal of funds financed by the European Union through the PHARE 2006 programme, a programme of Adriatic cross-border cooperation, where, together with the United Nations Development Programme, the green entrepreneurship incentive programme means that significant funds for the project called "SIPA" are used. The project is carried out by the regional development agency of Sibenik-Knin County in partnership with the regional development agency of Zadar County, the public institution for the management of protected natural values of Sibenik-Knin County, the public institution for the management of protected parts of the nature of Zadar County, the National Park of Krka and the Italian organisations from the region of Marka. So, for a total budget worth nearly 200 thousand euros, the aim was to develop a system for managing protected natural values in both counties through strengthening management bodies, institutions, through development and high quality ecological sustainable tourism offers and through cooperation and exchange of good practice with Italian partners. The European Union is financing a project with 93 000 euros or 50% of the project's total value, while other sources mean the United Nations programme with 16.5% and partners involved in the project with 33.5%. This project is also before completion and its results are already visible after a year of implementation, which is that institutionally strengthened natural value protection institutions, meaning also in the field of Zadar and Sibenik-Knin County, have created a basis for the functioning of the GIS database for protected natural values. Localities, individual sites in protected areas of nature are arranged to train tourists to join. In particular, the Vrelo Une located in the Zadar County area was inaccessible, a beautiful pearl touristic. It is now through this project built, decorated path to make it available to tourists and all interested ones. The tourist activity of public institutions through the creation of tourist info kiosks, as well as the creation of organised tourist tours, has been strengthened. Also, touristic are promoted protected areas of nature means in these two counties, and a strong message has also been sent to partners on the other side of the Adriatic about these beauty. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42889	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by a respected representative, Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42890	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I am very pleased to hear from you that some cross-border cooperation projects have been successful. It really pleases me, and it is something that is extremely important for both economic and other reasons. However, I must say that my experiences that we could and should have done much more. Croatia is one of the members of the Council of Europe who has not signed or ratified any of the three existing protocols at the Madrid Convention on Cross-border Cooperation and that is certainly not good. Croatia, I think that only with Hungary has signed a bilateral agreement on cross-border co-operation with no other neighbour, although we are invited by the Council of Europe to do so to facilitate the process. Unfortunately, we didn't do it. And finally, 16th and 17th of this month, in November, a ministerial conference was held this month in Utrecht, which I already said our minister didn't even show up. No one from our delegation has spoken, and I don't think we've had much of a celebration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42891	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42892	Here I agree, colleague Doric, that there is always much more to be done, but here I was talking about the readiness of units of local and regional self-government to participate in these competitions. Those units that were ready were involved and have results. Those units of local and regional self-government that were not willing to participate, of course, cannot even have results. And that's exactly what I was talking about, because there's room for preparedness for better results.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42893	Thank you very much. And there's another replica. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I would actually support and confirm what Ms. Marinović's representative put out and I only have to tax-list what are all the projects that were actually done by reference to the area of Sibenik-Knin County, more specifically and in the very area of the city of Sibenik. So I can also say that during a previous period of some four years, for example, the Sibenik City Museum managed to achieve some 300 thousand euros, the business zone "Podi" with about a million and 300 thousand euros. But what's commendable is actually for the entire county is the regional community waste management centre with about 6 million euros, which will definitely solve a lot of other problems in my county, and what's most important is to actually resuscitate and remove, so to speak, all the illegal waste dumps of municipal waste. And what I have to say last, and I hope that the representatives will understand, in such projects, cities or counties are not the ones that can influence competitions or question them, but because of the delegations of the European Commission, the supervisor, because in these projects are our ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42895	Thank you very much. Replica's reply, the esteemed representative Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42896	Here's dear colleague Klaric, here's why I wanted to share this experience with everyone else and show that these European Union projects means they cross the borders and units of local, but also the regional self-government unit, that they can be together and that by working together two units of regional self-government they can have far more effective results than when they are isolated in one area alone. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42897	Thank you very much, Madam Representative. This individual debate is over. Would the proposaler's representative like to take the final word? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Ivana Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42898	Your Honor, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I want to thank everyone for the positive and also those critical references to the report and the content of the report, because it is precisely your discussions that contributes to further improving and preparing the content of the report. What I would like to say about the fact that the report does not refer exclusively to the period from 1 January to 30 June, so we have tried to make a substantive report according to some European practice and the way in which pre-accession programmes are otherwise discussed on these supervisory committees and with the European Commission and the Member States. So it was the idea to get out of the programme's report slowly as their deadlines expire, and since the duration of the programme is long, it has a one-time perspective, we still haven't had a single programme come in line to completely eliminate it from the report. And let's say that deadline is approaching the CARDS 2003 programme where the deadline for those final payments is 31.12.2009, and then we could completely draw the line, say what actually happened in that programme, close it down and move it out of the report. What we're going to try to do is a little more explicit and more concretely extract the data for the period for which the report is delivered, so you don't have to search the text for what happened during that half-year period. But we would still like to leave this one statistical review of the situation according to individual programmes, because we think it is important and gives the framework of pre-accession programmes and that you may be well reminded, too, because you certainly do not now store old materials from report to report. So that's about content itself. The following questions were related, so with certain elements of implementation, and I will now try to answer the one I have written specifically. So, firstly related to the IPA in 2007, you also saw this in the report that only one contract was signed by 30.6. and the de facto percentage of the contract was low. There, again, is important to explain this time scale of the IPA negotiations and first point to the fact that the IPA regulation was adopted only in mid-2007. It is only by adopting this European regulation that we have received specifically from the European Commission regulation the elements by which we could even begin to prepare for accreditation, i.e. to obtain work permits. And of course it took us a year then, about this took some preparation to get permission to work, which is basically very short deadlines. Because here's when you look at some of the member states that were here and mentioned Bulgaria and Romania still haven't been able to get permission to work with individual programmes, so they're actually already in 2009. The financial perspective when the member state began 2007. It lasts until 2013 and has failed to obtain neither work permit nor to withdraw from the allocations. So, we got a license to work in 2008 for IPA and immediately started producing start-up materials and IPA 2007 will now be signed by the end of 2009 and you will see this in this report for the second half of 2009 already in significant percentages, and the rest will be agreed before the deadline defined by our financial agreement because it is time for IPA 2007 to negotiate. 11th month 2010 This is the deadline set by the European Commission, and we will have an agreement and we hope that we have more than 90% and up to 100%, because we now have time for additional and new negotiations. So, by the end of 2010 before the deadline of the contract, we will have agreed on a total alocation. So right now, we're happy with the CARDS, the PHARE, the ISPA, the SAPARD. However, we have learned some mistakes from this first generation of pre-accession programmes, and now we are trying to do everything to improve further, to be even better at further implementation when it comes to IPA. It's that time dimension connected to the IPA itself. Now that we look back on this report, part of the report related to irregularities where it is mentioned, the early warning system or early notification system that you highlighted in the debates. So it's a system and we wrote it on purpose. This is a system developed by the European Commission because at the level of all Member States and candidates who have the opportunity to use pre-accession programmes to help develop a system, so that is, for the whole European Union, which is accompanied by all European suppliers, all suppliers that appear in this process. This does not mean that we do not also have our own internal system in which we monitor the quality of individual suppliers, so if someone in the implementation does something intentionally wrong, of course we put it on a list of suppliers that are no longer desirable. What is important in this particular case is that, for example, in consultations with the European Commission delegation, that is, in this process of approving the documentation because the supplier in the early notification system is marked as a bad supplier, he was kicked out of the procedure, so that the delegations of the European Commission and the Commission themselves would say that this is not exactly a rule, that it cannot be automatically excluded and that we need to repeat the tender procedure, it will include him in the evaluation process, but because he is getting fewer points in that system and he will probably not be the one who has been chosen. So it is now the very procedure that the European Commission has put in place and has not fully implemented. So, always, the system is, this is the system where we all learn together and together we try to do the best and the most that we can. When we talk about Eddie's system and prepare our institutions to fully manage pre-accession programmes on their own, I have to say here that it's really important that we get this license because we are opening our doors in European funds so that we don't waste time, for example, on Bulgaria, Romania to get permission to work with funds. So, the assumption of fast obtaining a permit to work in funds is, in fact, this system of full self-management of pre-accession aid programmes and therefore we are doing everything to improve the quality of the documentation, to speed up implementation and negotiation in order to get positive evaluations by the Commission and then a permit to work for the full independent management of the European Union programmes. It mentioned a cross-border cooperation programme with Italy and that it cared about 60% of the bargaining in that part. It's actually about the PHARE Allocation, from the PHARE 2005 of 1.81m euros. In fact, it happened here that the first next project was on the list because cross-border cooperation was negotiated in a way to call the tender and invite the bidders to offer their projects and then according to the list of the most qualitative to the least quality project projects are ranked and how many allocations on the project close the line, underline the line and the first next project that was on the selection list and for the bargaining was in fact exceeding the remaining amount so that it simply couldn't be contracted that rest of the funds. And in PHARE 2006, therefore in this same cross-border programme where 3m euros were allocated 100% was agreed. So, it's all arranged. So otherwise, with these pre-accession programmes, which you yourself have said is much greater than allocated funds because small allocated funds, but we cannot influence it because the European Commission, or the European Union, determines in pre-accession programmes how much funds are allowed for which programme. So it's not up to us at all. It's pre-alocated means and we're just then moving inside those allowed allocations so. Of course there was a lot in the debate mentioned the SAPHARD program and we will try for this next report actually a little bit more information to give about SAPHARD. What happened when SAPHARD was contracted and the percentage closed to those 62%, is actually related to this arduous learning process at the level of farmers and other companies actually involved in the production of agricultural products. The preparation of these projects is also documentation that needs to be delivered to the SAPhard Agency, now the future IPARD agency, to approve much more complex than what they may have gotten used to in some national programmes, and now it just happened that the application, so the reported projects were a lot. Enough to use 25 million approved SAPHARD funds, but in the process of reviewing all documents, so one large, one good part of these applications must be eliminated because there are no individual documents. Thus, let's say that there are no certificates of compliance of investment with EU standards, somewhere there were no building permits or land-book extracts, and these projects could not be approved or included in the funding. So then there were some administrative controls and field controls, and there was a discrepancy of data recorded in the business plan and what was found with the users on the ground, or the user started working before the contract with the agency was signed. Simply in some ways, users are not used to rules and procedures in SAPHARD, and then in some of the administrative type mistakes, it actually happened that they couldn't get the money. As for this third and fourth competition in SAPHARD, it was paid 0.0 as you saw in these tables in addition, because the processing of projects from the third and fourth competitions is ongoing. So when it comes from the end-user that the project is over, then they start very, very detailed controls that take several months. SAPHARD agency, SAPHARD controllers go to the field, have to photograph everything they've done, compare the photos before the start of the project, with these photos after the project is completed. Very, very detailed measurements are being carried out. Analysis of the quality of the material and everything else. And only after all these controls are the project granted funds and payments are made. So the payments are now under way and will now be intensified now in the 12th month and by 31.12. we hope for maximum amounts paid. What I especially want to point out is that you have indeed noticed very well here in the entire system of weaknesses that we must take care of and work together now. Now's the time to work on it. We were talking about future alocations. In 2012, when we become a member state in 2012, 2013, 2014 and for these major locations that are waiting for us, we really need to prepare administratively at all levels. At the level of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and at central state levels. I'm actually sorry that there have been some comments saying that, say, some agencies or bodies that are very skilled and know a lot about the implementation of pre-accession aid programmes, that they are too high because they have a lot of people because every man will be valuable to us in this area that knows something about the implementation of pre-accession programmes and that can help us further implement these great allocations that are waiting for us in the funds. And there's no extra man there, we just have a shortage, or we have to keep working on including as many people as possible. And what we will also try to make plans and some kind of strategy, and we are already agreeing with the Commission. Because, of course, the European Commission is also interested in how the Republic of Croatia prepares to use these funds, so that in Chapter 22, this particular chapter is the place where we discuss and discuss the preparations of the Republic of Croatia for the funds. We too had to hand over the strategy of organisational development to the European Commission. It means what exactly and where we see ourselves in 2012 means in the following periods each year individually until 2012, 2013, 2014. And we will share these data with you in the following report, so you can see that it is indeed a strategic attempt to devise the preparation of the Republic of Croatia for what awaits us as a member country. This too is seriously negotiated in Chapter 22. And lastly, you wanted to be a little more accurate and more specific about the financial package, so since it was about different years and different allocations, I will now try specifically from the package to read. So, for us in this proposed package, the European Commission proposes a billion EUR 561.2 million for 2012 and in 2013. 2 billion 006.8 million euros. So that's 2012, 2013, because we were talking different combinations. Sometimes in 2011 plus 2012, sometimes in 2012, 2013 The mainly sum of 2012 and 2013 is 3 and a half billion that is often heard, this is the two-year one, and since 2014, the annual allocation forecasted is 2 billion and 600 million euros. So we see that it is really important amounts, and that is why they need very concrete strategic preparations that will touch all levels in the Republic of Croatia. And here's the next report, in the next reports we'll try a little bit more to talk about, so you'll be as informed as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42899	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42901	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with Associates. As far as this law is concerned, he's got two goals ahead of us at the HSS. On the one hand, it will regulate the domestic market for agricultural products, in accordance with certain market regulation measures in the European Union, and also prepare our market for adequate functioning after entering the European Union. The second goal is to meet the precondition set by the European Union for Croatia to close agricultural negotiations. The law thus constitutes a legal basis for the adoption of implementing rules which will regulate the agricultural market in more detail. In fact, various measures are currently applied in the Republic of Croatia to regulate the agricultural market, some of which are activated only exceptionally, in the event of major market disturbances. The current system differs significantly from the regulation of the European Union's agricultural products market, which solves this area by a single regulation so that this segment needs to be regulated differently for the sake of harmonisation. However, it did not fully reflect the European Union model, which is not possible under our terms, because there is no need to take market regulation measures for certain products such as coffee, rubber or cotton. In addition, Croatia is bound by its commitments to the European Union through international contracts, so that unlike the European Union, it cannot apply a series of measures relating to external trade. This law is set out as a roof law laying down market regulation measures for certain sectors of the agricultural sector, conditions for the activation of certain market regulation measures, and for users and participants, i.e. the authorities involved in the implementation of those measures. Furthermore, the law includes all market regulation measures other than incentives, i.e. direct payments in agriculture. When it comes to product coverage, the provisions of the law apply to cereals, sugar, hops, olive oil and table olives, fruit and vegetables, and their processing, wine, living plants and flowers, beef, pigmeat, sheepmeat and goatmeat, eggs and meat of poultry, milk and dairy products, beekeeping, and other agricultural products. The law also provides for a marketing year for the implementation of measures which are in line with that in the European Union, which differs from product to product. The implementation of measures by this law is regulated in a way that is not immediately implemented, but that the envisaged measures will be introduced and applied depending on the situation on the market, so that their function is to prevent, or eliminate, market disturbances related to the specific conditions of our agricultural production. In other words, a number of measures have been prescribed, while in practice only some of them will be implemented, at the time when their application is marketable. Since the establishment of the European Union, agriculture has been one of the main topics. It differs from other economic activities since agricultural prices are subject to a number of variables, and therefore the role of the Government in maintaining their stability is extremely significant. We know ourselves what kind of problem arises when at some point some product on the market is too much or too little. The price of a product in the environment may at some point be higher and should be intervened in order to prevent a more serious disturbance on the domestic market. And not because of the higher price of corn, we take out all that corn, so, for example, growers lose their food for pigs. In view of the regulation of the internal market, the law prescribes market intervention measures covering public interventions, support for private storage, special intervention measures, adaptation of the offer to market requirements, and the system of production restrictions and specific aid. In any case, it should be pointed out in particular that for the first time mechanisms have been introduced which have not been applied in Croatia, such as production restrictions, private storage support, and recognition of producer and sectoral organisations. In the fruit and vegetable sector, olive oil, wine and hops, the establishment of producer organisations is prescribed, which we believe will contribute not only to increasing production, but also to better production income which we think is in the interest of all of us. The law also prescribes trade provisions with other countries, where the most important aspect is import and export licences, i.e. the licence including the management of customs quotas. The component of the law is specific provisions for individual sectors, as well as administrative and inspection controls. By unifying all measures by regulating the market under one law, greater transparency will be achieved in the implementation of agricultural policy, i.e. greater security of business in the agricultural market. The aim of the provisions relating to producers of rough, as well as producers and sectoral organisations is to combine production and joint planning within individual sectors of agricultural production, thus fostering their increased competitiveness in the European Union market. Furthermore, the purpose of the provisions relating to market standards is to ensure a uniform and high quality of products, thus protecting the interests of consumers and, on the one hand, by producers themselves who can thus achieve a higher price of their product. And after all this, I can only say that the Croatian Peasants' Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42902	Thank you. Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42903	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is a typical example of the adoption of the law in a Croatian way in a pre-accession period. This is a single-use law, and it is only theoretically used in order to meet certain criteria and to close a significant chapter in this process as soon as possible. Why am I saying it's just a theory law? My colleagues and colleagues, if you look at the text of the law a little bit, especially if you see transitional and final provisions, then the law we adopt this week, and the final provisions say that the minister will adopt regulations based on the authority of this law within two years, that means that we will enter the European Union exactly when the minister should finish his job. But obviously the reason is the first one. Could we have passed the law before? I totally agree with my predecessors who said we should have brought it in a long time ago, a long time ago. Look, the current law has bound us to do what? He bound us, not us here, but the Minister, the Government, and then we confirmed it to bring national programme for agriculture and rural areas. Based on this national programme, then we should have passed this legislation that regulates then a clear market for agricultural products. The national programme has been adopted for 5 years, and the current Agriculture Act is valid since when? Since 2001. So now we're supposed to be at the end of the second five-year period, and we've never brought in any national programme, let alone that we're ending up with another, which is really for every conviction, and that's not how it should be done. So our ministry didn't bring this national programme, whether it didn't, whether it didn't want it, whether it suits someone that we don't have such a program, you have to figure it out for yourself. So this law will cease to apply when we one day enter the European Union, which is about two years from now. And that should be said to the citizens, even I think it would be good to find that in transitional and final terms, in the law itself, not in the opening part, in the law, that it is known when it ceases to apply. But we have carefully passed this bill and allow us to engage in some changes and additions that we believe would essentially contribute to the quality of the law itself, regardless of all our doubts about what will happen with the implementation of that law. In particular, Article 2(1) of the basic Regulation. It would be good to define the paying agencies in agriculture according to the Law establishing a paying agency in agriculture as a public institution. It seems to us that would make sense. Article 3(2) states that the regulation of the market applies to the following sectors and thus lists certain products. I'm not on you with botanics, but you should probably ask the profession, agronomies, which they think is whether the hop sector or agricultural culture or the agricultural product. In accordance with this, both paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be properly arranged. In Article 6(7), why users of market regulation measures must keep records for 5 years, and we know that in two years this law will cease to apply. I'm not familiar with the regulation. If the regulation also states that five years of documentation must be kept there, then it is logical that we now Anticipate and apply it. If, however, the regulation does not oblige to keep the documentation for five years, then it seems somewhat pointless to us to state here as well. Article 21(3) states that the issue of an import licence is conditional on the deposit of insurance funds. What is the amount of these means of insurance, as determined, to whom they are paid, who determines it and whether, after the time of validity of the import licence, it is returned to the applicant of the law? These funds are clear. We also have the same principles of payment warnings in the case of export licences referred to in Article 22, so please help us here and explain how you predicted the functioning of Article 21, or 22. We go to Article 28(5), it is prescribed that the paying agency may, on the basis of written acts, entrust the exercise of controls on the ground to other bodies, as well as to control houses and laboratories. What did the promoter mean by which acts were written and whose acts were written, based on which the agency entrusted other bodies and control houses, or laboratories, to control the ground? Whether it applies to the statutes of the agency or to something else is not entirely clear to us. And finally when it comes to the transitional and final provisions of this law. I repeat the impression is ours and does not intend to make this law work. If he really intends to bring him back to life for a while, then you should probably shorten the deadlines that you set for the government here, or the minister, to bring certain regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42904	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42905	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the government. I'll only have four objections to this bill. Perhaps the only benefit would have been if I had succeeded, had enough time to write the amendments, but since the government doesn't accept any amendments I didn't want to waste paper to cut the costs to the state budget. And the reason for my remarks is probably in the fact that the largest number of farmers dealing with goat farming and the production of goat milk is in Međimurje, so that is probably why in Article 13 you forgot about the practice of Europe that in the production restrictions when it comes to milk is excluded goat and sheep milk. So Europe knows the difference between cow, sheep and goat milk and, in this provision of Article 13(1), you speak only of the milk sector, not referring to the possibility that the restriction will not be imposed on the production of sheep or goat milk, and I hope you agree with me that Croatia does not produce too much sheep and goat milk. A mild recommendation from 300 families about how much milk is involved, goat’s milk in Međimurje may depend indirectly on this provision. I know you've received an objection from the association. This is one of the few examples when the Alliance of Milk Producers wanted to follow the discussion from the gallery and an even more rare example when someone responsible in the Parliament of six candidates who wanted to come to follow this debate was forbidden to come to the Assembly. Therefore, two milk producers in the association or the Union of milk producers were found unfit to follow this debate from the gallery. They probably resented you in the ministry when even someone in the House knew it wasn't similar to coming here. Article 20 refers to the recognition of producers in paragraph 1, paragraph 2 of the sectoral organisations, and it is listed as being able to establish producer organisations of everything but fleas and mosquitoes but there is no milk producer, either in paragraph 1 or in paragraph 2. So I ask why the state would not recognise the producer organisations or sectoral organisations that produce milk, whether it has something to do with their activities in the past few months or the fact that we may be producing too much milk. Why don't we make a difference like Europe does in the form of milk, especially sheep, goat and cow. Article 22 of the export licence is replaced by the following: Article 27 possibility of a minister, the right of the minister to prescribe a minimum price for milk and milk products by regulation. Why isn't that in the bill? I'm in the debate laying down the principles that this is about failure, that it's about something that wasn't intentional. If there are reasons that I do not understand and in the reasons of the law or in the description of the situation I did not find these reasons, tell me what it was about. Do I really have to ask the question again that you don't know where the highest concentration of these producers is, that you don't understand why there's a difference somewhere, somewhere it isn't, why don't you put milk producers in line but globally? People who started producing sheep’s and goat’s milk or dairy products thought it was the future and could develop their perspective. This and this proposed law will not allow them to do so. You got their remarks from the Ministry. They told me they sent it to the Agriculture Committee. They're waiting for the answer too, clear that I can understand it. You can answer that in the final, you can publish it or write it but I really from the whole context of the law and the description of the situation in the introduction didn't understand why you didn't accept it before. And I hope that someone from the Secretariat of the Parliament will give me an answer to the criteria and why the Alliance of Milk Producers was not allowed, no agreement was given to have six of their representatives follow this debate from the gallery today. The approval was given to four and two were declared inappropriate to be in the Croatian Parliament when the law is being discussed. I don't know who made that decision because it wasn't put on paper, but it was verbally communicated to those who submitted the request. If, therefore, it is possible not because of me but because of these people involved in this production, try to explain to them and prove that this law did not put them in a more unfavourable position than the goat and sheep milk producers in Europe and that, by prohibiting or not recognising their organisation in accordance with these articles, you did not deliberately abandon them as organisational forms. The clearer and louder you may be, the more people may believe you when you give these arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42906	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović-Smiljanec. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42907	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The law provides for the following market regulation measures, already prescribed prices, domestic market interventions, monetary incentives and compensation, sales and consumption promotion measures, supply balance and trade measures. Only the cereals market has been regulated through the grain market order Regulation and other agricultural production measures have been established by the Agriculture Act. The system described is significantly different from the organisation of the European Union's agricultural market in which this issue has been addressed since 2007 by a single regulation of Council of Europe Regulation 1, 2, 3, 4/2007 introducing a common organisation of agricultural markets and specific provisions for certain agricultural products. That Regulation covers all market regulation measures other than direct payments to all agricultural products in accordance with the principle of simplification and transparency of EU policies. At the same time, it should be taken into account that meeting the criteria for closing negotiations in this case does not mean that the EU model is fully copied, which is not possible at this time, for example. the specialities of the Republic of Croatia and the international commitments undertaken. The law prescribes market regulation measures in certain sectors of agricultural products, the authority's competence in implementing market regulation measures, the users of these measures, as well as the control and inspection system. The law includes measures prescribed by the Law on Agriculture and the relevant sublaws, but also introduces mechanisms that have not been applied so far in Croatia, e.g. production restrictions, support for private storage, recognition of producer organisations and sectoral organisations. The law covers all market arrangements other than direct payments to farmers. Therefore, the main objective of the adoption of the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products is the establishment of a system of market regulation as prescribed in the European Union before that Regulation. Moreover, by pooling all market regulation measures under one law, greater transparency is achieved in the implementation of agricultural policy, i.e. greater security and business stability for operators on the agricultural market. The provisions concerning producer groups and producer organisations and sectoral organisations aim to combine production and joint planning within individual sectors of agricultural production, thereby contributing to their greater competitiveness in the common market of the European Union. The provisions relating to market standards aim to ensure a uniform and high quality of products offered on the market, thus protecting the interests of consumers, as well as producers that thus achieve a higher price for their product. Special attention should be paid to Croatia's negotiations on the production of certain agricultural products that are part of the Croatian tradition and mentality, but are not in line with production in the European Union and cannot be placed on the market in the European Union. Such products Croatia must necessarily protect, brand as part of Croatian cultural heritage, e.g. rakia, noodles, or something like that. One of the very pronounced features of the agricultural products market is the instability that needs to be minimised by this law. It is mainly linked to the specificities of agricultural production and demand. In the same direction, the creation of a modern market organisation, i.e. Market institutions such as stock exchanges, auctions and distribution systems. In parallel, appropriate measures should be taken to prevent the monopoly positions of large processing and trade organisations and to encourage free competition. The reduction in the number of intermediaries in goods flows from producers to end consumers can contribute to the stabilisation of the market and to the direct reduction of agricultural prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42908	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42909	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. So this Law on the regulation of the agricultural market in its assessment of the situation says that currently in the Republic of Croatia, different measures are applied to the regulation of the agricultural market where some of them are activated only exceptionally, in the event of major market disturbances. This finding in the material that, as we see and as it is said, that different measures of regulation of the agricultural market are applied, only exceptionally and without plan and order, I think they are exactly right. Unfortunately, nothing can be predicted with us and I don't know exactly why there are certain services that are responsible for this if it can't be predicted how and how these market intervention measures should be activated. For example, estimates for the next three to four years suggest that there will be no increase in agricultural prices, except for the possible retention of levels of some, and we know that prices have kind of fallen to one low level compared to previous ones and that they are quite uncompetitive, i.e. that some very difficult profit can be achieved with such prices for agricultural products, which is reflected and with the situation in agriculture of agricultural producers in a very difficult situation, so we have witnessed and various specific claims that these prices are improving. That is why it happens that some producer groups are either causing certain protests or, as was the case, going to roadblocks, etc. And what happens then? There are certain interventions in the market that are going to be individual, usually by ruling politicians normally... It's not normal? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We who are in opposition certainly can't promise anything. They promise certain interventions, funds, we have witnessed this and this summer when both Minister Cobankovic and current Prime Minister Kosor and Vice President Polancec promised certain funds for both milk and wheat. So these are the interventions that should be regulated in some way by this law, interventions on the agricultural market. However, when you look and read further this text of this material in this section that for this implementation, it is said, it is secured for 2009, what, 80 million kuna per year. And we see from this budget that we are going to talk about tomorrow that 358 million kuna is already secured in this year, or should be paid, that in 2008, there were 193 million in market intervention, and that for 2010, we are forecasting only 100 million. What does that all mean? All that means is that somehow what I've been saying is these budgets and thinking, or forecasts that should be the services that work at the Ministry of Agriculture that they don't look good, and I think it's especially this way to throw that 80 million when we know the ministry was working, so the budget is for market interventions this year 358 million. Thus, out of the 80 million, much more has already been put on the market to resolve these interventions that occurred by solving them when these people went out into the streets or I don't know when they were looking for it as such, rather than somehow predicting it. What is interesting and what should be the issue of these further monitoring of the internal market, i.e. market intervention and these in Article 8 of those interventions from public support to private storage of intervention measures, adaptation, offer of requests... A system of assistance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Public interventions, according to which. You always have to ask yourself if it's just these cereal, beef and milk and dairy products, if it's gonna be you and if it's enough that we have to, that we can think that we're just going to intervene here. It's a storage support issue. The warehouse is based on that storage law, etc. And everything that's happened with the wheat has also been promised to give I don't know what that ten lip or how much for storage. The issue of support for this warehouse and just to privates must be seen, but based on all those that we have, when we have discussed and spoken as much as we have given one indicative figure, or how much of these funds it would take to maintain this storage at a certain point, that we allow these people not to sell their product into invaluability. Because otherwise, it's always expensive with us, we take it cheaply out. It's often been, not always, but with the wheat with those 400,000 tons, and then 100,000 tons for the same amount of money we import. This production restriction has already been spoken here and I think that the production restrictions on both milk and sugar, and especially this for milk, everyone needs to know with this brand that we are dealing with for sure that sheep and goat milk does not go into the same arsenic with cow's milk and I think it should be sorted. Because everywhere and at those points about the quality of the milk, this one, that's what always gets sorted out. So cow's milk, sheep's milk and goats. Therefore, I think sheep's milk and goat's milk have so little to limit. One more question. This special assistance system. In which way these milk, olive oil, I don't know the hops, etc. were chosen. fruit and beekeeping support. I don't think it would be a bad idea to put an eighth point and all other products that are found under difficult production conditions due to natural or structural reasons just like this for honey. Because I think we have more products that we should keep at a certain point and that as such don't come out of this product. And quite at the end. It's the question of the paying agency. I think its importance will be great, but it needs to be activated as soon as possible, to bring people who really know how to do this job and who will, based on their quality of knowledge of this production, etc. give certain advantages, i.e. forecasts where and how we will need to intervene. And I think that's how it's going to be introduced exactly that and market order, but it's also not going to go away, it's going down like when there's an extra pig, so we've got a sow slaughter. When they start slaughtering the sows, then you almost know it, next year we won't even have a tollboy. Now we're going to leave again faster and faster. etc. And that's what that circle is about, and I think those evaluations can be done and they can react to it in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42910	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. So here we can see already in the introduction of the law that Croatia is one specific area, one specific agricultural sector since it is in a transitional period and it is indicated that, therefore, the regulation of the market was carried out only in the field of cereals while for other agricultural products it is regulated by specific laws, i.e. specific regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the time when necessary. Of course, the European Union has, like all of them, regulated this by one law, so according to what we see, the aim of the Republic of Croatia, by adapting to European legislation, is to do so with this law. The Croatian agricultural market is unregulated, I think it is clear to all and this is repeatedly highlighted in different ways, so any activity that has some principled aim to regulate the market for agricultural products is in principle and positive. Here are a few of my predecessors pointed out that it is a little problematic that we, already in the introduction of this law, suggest that it will only be valid until Croatia enters the European Union, and here we have highlighted it as P.Z.E. The law. Therefore, the European law we are adopting will cease to apply by entering Croatia into the European Union. So, the word is some kind of transitional or customized or I don't know what kind of law. But I say in principle if it is intended to regulate the market and fix certain things on the agricultural product market is generally positive. However, it is clear that along with some of the economic benefits he should bring, he must also give particular safety to farmers who are engaged in agricultural production in Croatia. And if he doesn't contribute to their greater security, then he'll be flawed. So it will only be partially accomplished in some parts of it. My predecessors have already pointed out a lot of these individual items. It's hard not to repeat some of them, it's hard to say something new, but of course each of us is going to say from our own threshold and our own area to which he's coming and so am I. I am particularly interested in this law in this proposal of the law in the area of internal market regulation, i.e. the area of intervention measures, i.e. in general public interventions and then intervention measures. We're witnessing that so far there's been a whole series of intervention measures in the form of ransom by the state, so we saw that there was milk, there was wheat, there were corn, there were cattle, there were pigs. Here's a recent Mandarin, etc. So wherever there is a surplus of agricultural products, the government must mostly jump in to buy it, because simply farmers can't live unless they produce they have no one or sell it or hand it over as they say on the ground. And that's interesting, there's already one voice variant. Farmers sell their products, except when they do it to the state, then they say surrender. I don't know for what reason, if it's a legacy from the past, or if it's that form I gave up, so when the money comes, then I'll know I sold it. In fact, Croatia is constantly exposed to such needs of intervention measures, so first of all, the ransom, and here we see that the problem is already corn, excess corn. We've seen the announcements of the hero. Beekeepers who quietly do their job have long said they have excesses, that they don't know what to do with it, etc. Thus, there will always be a need for the state, or government, to step in through its measures to solve certain problems. There is almost no market for agricultural products in which there has not been a timely appearance or the need for an intervention buy-in will arise, and therefore to address these market disturbances through such intervention measures. And what's the fact will still need it. Therefore, by looking at the articles of the law here, Article 9, that is, Article 11. Because I come from Eastern Slavonia, that is, Vukovar-Srijem County, where recently, a year and a few days ago was a very problematic purchase of pigs. Of course I was watching that area. I see that Article 9 does not mention pork, so it is mentioned in the framework of buying and selling, or public intervention. And in Article 11, you only mentioned the category if the purchase of pigs is a way to solve certain diseases. So I think it's trihinosis, swine fever, etc. I don't think that's enough, and that's for sure for Slavonic pig breeders, I know there are in other parts of Croatia, it won't be optimistic to see that the pig isn't in this proposal. I have to say that another segment is very interesting to me, this time as a consumer, and that's the segment that talks about marketing and production rules, so to the market standard. If there's nothing to hope for, at least because of this, we'll finally know if what we eat, what's declared as a particular product is really that product. And today, we can find meat that we don't know where it comes from. Very often we'll find a Pag lamb everywhere, even where they don't know where Pag is, and it came from somewhere in South America, Australia, New Zealand, and I don't know which other parts. I say in principle, if the aim of the law is to fix the situation, and regulate the agricultural product market, the bill is positive, in principle positive. Although there are a number of things that we would see here and related to goat milk and the rest that should be done, or added. I am pleased that there is an amendment here that goes in favor of what I said about pigs, so I hope that he will be respected, regardless of what the ruling coalition has proposed, as a member of the opposition, I support him. Finally, I must express hope that maybe once the agricultural chamber starts to work properly and functions properly, it will also help to regulate this agricultural market, and we will also experience that those who produce know who they will sell, how they will live from what they are doing and that perhaps Croatia will once be a agriculturalally developed country, since agriculture is the strategic branch of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42912	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Josip Kraljičković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. First, I would like to thank you for your comments, your suggestions, your praises. For sure, we will benefit all of us and will benefit from a better understanding of the law and the time in which and during what time the law is passed. I will repeat that the objective among other things of this law is to establish a legal and administrative framework that will ensure full application of the EU system when we enter the European Union, as prescribed by the Council regulation 12-34 2007. And that means meeting the criteria, closing negotiations for Chapter 11. So we must accept this law as only in the transitional period. First of all, prepare the administration, but also the manufacturers for what they expect in the European Union. It has been attended by Croatian experts, experts from the European Commission, and this text has been agreed, so together, the joint text on which we have also received the approval of the European Commission. This means that it is respected how what is written in the European Commission regulations and what is our reality and what we can change in this short period. When it comes to the milk producers that we have passed on today and their remarks, too, in the ministry, we understand their concern about the current situation, the status in Croatia, with the emphasis that we have on the support and care of the state now much greater than in the European Union, and there are no greater restrictions in the European Union. The restrictions on milk production for the time being in Croatia do not exist, when we enter the European Union, then we will see it. As for the production of milk that's mentioned here, I mean goat, sheep, nothing applies to it at all to what I've been told, so if someone's looking for restrictions, then it's a problem, but we think nobody's looking for restrictions on that kind of milk production. So this law has, for them and for all of us, foreseen a time of adjustment and precisely the measures that we can introduce with a view to better jointly preparing for entry into the European Union. Being a member in 2012, there are some things we can't just put off. Also, two years before we enter, we cannot invent any other measures, another practice that would be different, more rationally lead measures, but we can already take measures that are coherent and that exist in the European Union and that are reality with us that can implement them. When it comes to the agency mentioned normally in the law, it is not necessary to fear import tariff quotas, because today it also implements and distributes import quotas, and the law provides for significant inclusion of the Customs Administration to that effect. Which means the agency in this section will have even less work to do than it has done so far. Support for private storage, we know that not all conditions for full application are met. However, for the implementation of this system, we had to take the first step, which is precisely the adoption of this law and what I was already stressing to prepare both producers and us administratively expecting us by entering the European Union. And that means a certain need for storage, storage facilities, and this is about manufacturers who make a storage fee, not someone else. When it comes to fruit production, I don't know nobody's read anywhere or claimed from the government, the ministry that we don't import fruit and vegetables, so it's simple. The truth is that we're importing fruits and vegetables, but the truth is that over the past six years, we've increased the area under the orchards by 16%, and for areas under the vineyards by 22%. And there will also be no restrictions now on the state of the fruit, i.e. the production of vegetables or in the European Union. The restriction exists only for the planting of new vineyards, so that projects can continue to be implemented and when we enter the European Union, normally with probably other conditions of support. When it comes to production restrictions, we will not lead to production restrictions until we enter the European Union, but will only form the necessary strategic system. Once again, there is no concern for manufacturers when the word is regardless of the type of production and type of producer or their regional representation, that such a thing will be. It was also a question of how special support was made. These are simply the kind of support that exists in the European Union. We did not want to run additional support programmes during the transitional period, especially since the State Support Act provides resources for the entire agricultural production. So we have a special aid law, so it's regulated by that law. When it comes to the definition of the Agency, then here we are drawn to the solution that we have received in the form of amendments from the Legislative Committee and also when it is used here in the text of the law of the sector or product we agree that some products are difficult to call the sector but we have decided to use solutions that have been used and used in the regulation of the European Union. Import and export licences under the regulations will be specified in detail after the entry into force of this law where the level of guarantee, import and export deadlines, repayment deadlines for the guarantee paid and the like will be prescribed. The role of the agency and its... its functions and jobs to other bodies are possible and normal in European practice, in the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both normally and here it is provided by law as it stands, as it stands in the law, that means that, through written agreement and contract, the agency will do so with specialised institutions dealing with certain affairs and precisely prescribe what and how it is implemented and implemented. This will also continue to apply when we join the European Union. Once again, I stress that this text of the law is very important for us to close Chapter 11 by accepting it and normally allow us to enter the European Union as soon as possible. In this debate, we also received amendments from the HDZ Club of Representatives and the HSS one amendment from the Legislative Office. On behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I accept the amendments we have received. I thank you for your discussion and for your understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42914	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42915	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. First, I'm going to correct Mr. Secretary of State's allegations that someone has advocated imposing restrictions on the production of sheep and goat milk. It is very important that Article 13(1) of the system of production restrictions referred to in Article 8 of this Act is introduced in the milk and sugar sectors. The proposal was milk except for goat and sheep. We are opposed to the possibility of a restriction because Europe is not there either. Obviously, you didn't listen to the debate with enough attention. And your other claim that this law has been written by European experts has otherwise never heard of it in this Croatian Assembly. You are the first secretary of state to say that this law has been written by European experts. I will check the European Commission's Office in Zagreb tomorrow and ask for their names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42916	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuation is tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012 with proposals for financial plans for extra budget users for 2010, with projections for 2011 and 2012. Croatian Waters, Roads, State Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation Agency, Croatian Privatisation Fund and Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, Proposal for a State Budget and financial plans for non-profit users for 2010 and projections for 2011 and 2012. And final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010. On Friday, a debate on the final draft labour law. And on Wednesday, the most likely vote on the budget and other accompanying laws and regulations. Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2009. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2009. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 81 votes for, 6 abstentions and 4 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42919	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives, respected parliamentary representatives. I am pleased to explain briefly the proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural products market, with the final proposal for a law. The proposal for this law will establish a basic framework for a group of market regulation measures, which, together with direct payments, are listed in the so-called the first pillar of agricultural policy. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption of this law by harmonising with the relevant European Union rules governing the regulation of the EU agricultural products market and meeting one of the three criteria for closing negotiations in the Agriculture and Rural Development chapter. The law prepared these Croatian experts in consultations with the European Commission during a period that was behind us means in time until a negotiating chapter was opened and for agreements. It's just saying that we've also been working in this time, and that's why we've put two laws in front of you today. This law is modelled by the relevant EU regulations structured as a roof law. It defines market regulation measures for certain sectors of agricultural products, conditions for the activation of certain market regulation measures and the role of certain bodies in their implementation. The provisions of the law apply to almost all sectors in our agriculture from cereals, via sugar, hops, milk and dairy products and beekeeping. The law covers all market regulation measures other than direct payments. At this point, it may be even more important to point out that this law provides a legal basis for the establishment of an administrative structure that we must establish by the time we enter the European Union. The law includes measures known from the current Agricultural Act, such as intervention measures, tariff quotas, import and export licences, as well as other rules such as those. Market standards, where the law has first and foremost a link to the Food Act. It also provides certain mechanisms that have not been applied in Croatia so far, such as production restrictions, support... storage, recognition of manufacturing sectoral organisations will be introduced precisely by this law. I would like to stress immediately that not all the measures prescribed by this law will be implemented immediately, but will be specifically introduced and applied depending on the situation on the market, because with the same conditions of our production and the existence of the necessary administrative preconditions. This practice is similar to that carried out in the European Union, where the relevant regulations define a number of market regulation measures. In practice, however, all of them are not implemented, but only those that are really needed at a certain point. I would therefore like to point out that the importance of adopting this law lies not only in meeting the conditions for membership in the European Union, but in creating a legal framework in which all actors involved in the process from production to placing on the market, that is, exports and imports of certain agricultural products will be able to act, know the conditions of production and business in the European Union. In this respect, this law is of paramount importance, as its adoption will in a clear and systematic manner be introduced by the only legal regulation, and in accordance with the highest standards and best practice of the European Union product, more order on the market for agricultural and food products in Croatia. This law will only continue in the transitional period until we enter the European Union. When we enter the European Union, then we will apply their regulations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42920	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on European Integration? Agriculture, fishing and rural development? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. To date, Croatia does not have a special law that regulates different measures for the regulation of the agricultural market. They are mainly regulated under the existing Agricultural Act, i.e. aid in agriculture. It's also a long story to say about the need to edit the so-called. market lines, and so far it's only been done for cereals in the last year. So the regulation was passed a year ago. Given the start of the negotiations on the agricultural chapter, it is necessary to regulate this area in accordance with the provisions of the primary and secondary source of European Union law with possible transitional periods. With this bill of law, we do exactly that. And in accordance with the Association Agreement. Regulation of this area is one of the measures for closing the Chapter of Agriculture and Rural Development. The law harmonises the principles stemming from the provision of a primary source of European Union law, and in part a common organisation of the agricultural market and specific provisions for certain agricultural products stemming from the secondary source of European Union law, and therefore we are partially harmonising there. In light of the proposal, it is pointed out that the unifying of all market regulation measures under one law increases transparency in the offer of agricultural policy implementation, thus ensuring the safety and stability of business for all operators on the agricultural market. The law prescribes the types of market interventions, the production to which they apply, and the time at which the measures can be implemented. A significant role in the implementation of interventions on the market will be played by the paying agency which will run a number of administrative transactions related to the regulation and implementation of market interventions. Since the agency is not yet fully trained, it is important to speed up its personnel and financial equipment for all the work that will take place in the future. The law provides for the implementation of 6 types of market intervention through public and special interventions, support for private storage, adaptation of supply to market needs, production organisation and special assistance. So far, in Croatia, when talking about these intervention measures, the most intervention measures have been used through the intervention buying-in of cattle. The lack of planned long-term agriculture policy in Croatia leads to significant disturbances and oscillation in domestic production resulting in low production and productivity in terms of potential and enhances import growth especially in the processing industry sector that requires cheap raw materials for processing. If there is no long-term vision developing one sector, then no partial intervention or special programmes can solve the sector's problems. I'm going to say that for example in the operational programmes run in livestock, fruit and vegetable farming so that they have far more success that there is a consistent policy than production, processing and markets. This is how she only brought additional problems to farmers who entered these programmes, who are in charge and now have no security of placements and income security. We can make the best laws, but if we don't change practice, they're just left with a dead letter on paper. I would like to make several remarks made by the milkmen on this occasion, which could possibly be implemented through the implementing rules, given that the laws will be in this form only until the moment Croatia enters the European Union. They shall, in particular, have observations on Articles 13, 20, 22 and 27 which speak in Article 13 of the production organisation where they propose to exempt themselves from production, or production restrictions, from such restrictions, from the exemption of goat and sheep milk... total of all kinds of milk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, in Article 20, where it is said of producer and sectoral organisations that the establishment of a producer's initiative in the fruit and vegetable sectors, olive oil and table olives, wine and hops is also added to milk, that milk and sugar export licences are also included in milk and in the means to promote consumption where it is proposed that the ministry can prescribe such a promotional fee, to say that it is exclusively on a voluntary basis and that it can then be paid by producers and processors. So we estimate that it is good to pass such a law, that it is another step towards harmonisation of legislation, but it is necessary to coordinate and practice, so we at the SDP club will adopt such a law on the regulation of agricultural products markets.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42922	Thank you. Club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. The HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42923	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have before us a proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural market, which regulates one of the three main areas of the common agricultural policy of the European Union. It should be stressed here that the Republic of Croatia has established a harmonised legal framework for direct payments and for rural development measures representing the remaining two core areas of the common agricultural policy already in the middle of this year by adopting the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. It should also be pointed out that this bill is also part of a European package, i.e. another very important regulation in which national legislation is brought into line with European legislation in the most demanding area, both from the national aspect and from the aspect of the European Union budget, and that today only a few weeks after the official opening of negotiations for Chapter 11 – Agriculture and rural development we are faced with the adoption of a law which will meet the criteria for closing negotiations in this chapter. This is precisely why we from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the proposed Law on Organisation of the Markets of Agricultural Products and therefore consider its preparation and development a great success of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the State Administration, which together managed to remove certain doubts about our own readiness and ability and thus, according to the information available to us, to cause positive reactions by the European Commission when it comes to the regulation of this extremely demanding area. When it comes to the current situation, it is necessary to say that different measures are applied in the Republic of Croatia to regulate the agricultural market where some of them are activated only in cases of major market disturbances. The basic legal framework for the implementation of market regulation measures is the applicable Agriculture Act, which provides for regulated prices and interventions on the domestic market, monetary incentives and compensation, sales and consumption promotion measures, supply and demand balancing measures and trade measures as a measure of regulation. Furthermore, the Agriculture Act also provides for the possibility for market regulation and regulation of offers and demand for certain groups of agricultural and food products to be resolved by the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so to speak. Market lines. It should be noted here that for the time being in the Republic of Croatia we have only the market order prescribed for cereals while other agricultural products are subject to measures of market regulation prescribed by horizontal regulations such as those of trade measures, then specific regulations for certain products, for example marketing standards, or they are applied on the basis of decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which are of limited duration, and in cases of major market disturbances, so there are different intervention measures. It is clear that the existing system of regulation of the agricultural market in the Republic of Croatia differs significantly from that in the European Union. In view of the fact that since 2007, it has been based on a single regulation, i.e. on Council Regulation 1234 covering all market regulation measures other than those relating to direct payments for all agricultural products. It is precisely because of respect for the previous fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of a single regulation or a law governing the market for agricultural products, which, by modelling the relevant regulation of the European Union, is structured as a roof law, which will define in one place all national support for the regulation of the markets for certain sectors of agricultural products, the conditions for the activation of certain measures and the role of certain bodies and institutions in their implementation. We consider it important to stress that the adoption of the proposed law, regardless of the fulfilment of the criteria for closing negotiations in Chapter 11 – Agriculture and rural development, does not mean that the European model for the regulation of the agricultural products market is automatically painted, because at this point it is simply neither possible nor possible for two basic reasons. The first reason is that Croatia does not need to introduce market regulation measures for certain products that are not interesting to it, although they are contained and covered by the said regulation. And the second reason is that until Croatia enters full membership of the European Union, it must respect the obligations made by certain international contracts which, unlike the European Union countries, cannot apply a series of measures relating to external trade such as export subsidies and additional customs duties and such. Despite this fact, there remains a significant number of market regulation mechanisms for which the Republic of Croatia can establish a quality legal and administrative framework that will ensure full implementation of the European system of organisation of the agricultural products market after the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. The proposed Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products is the legal framework which is indeed prepared in a quality way, which will allow Croatia's agricultural market to prepare adequately and quality for future functioning within the common agricultural market of the European Union. We from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community believe that we can all agree together with the previous finding and the fact that the regulation of the agricultural products market is of paramount importance for the entire Croatian agriculture, especially for our farmers. After these, I would say the introductory and principled findings describing the current situation in the Republic of Croatia, explain the reasons for the adoption of the new law and emphasises its importance for the total Croatian agriculture, there is something concrete to be said about what the law says. Namely, the Law governing the markets in agricultural products, as referred to in Article 1 of the proposal, prescribes market regulation measures in particular, of course for the Republic of Croatia to the important sectors of agricultural products, the competence of certain authorities in implementing market regulation measures, users of the measures envisaged, as well as the system of control and inspection. It should be stressed that the law in part prescribes measures that have been applied in the Republic of Croatia so far, such as intervention measures, customs quotas, import and export licences. However, it should also be pointed out that the law also introduces entirely new mechanisms that we have not yet implemented, such as production of restrictions in the form of production quotas for the milk and sugar sectors, support for private storage, recognition of producer and sectoral organisations and so on. As is the case in the European Union, the proposed law covers all market regulation measures other than those relating to direct payments, but only to those sectors, as I have already said, which are interesting for the Republic of Croatia. Article 3(3) of the Law states that sectors resulting from the application of market regulation measures to cereals, sugar, hops, olive oil and table olives, fruit and vegetables and their processing, wine, live plants and flowers, beef, pig's, sheep's and goat's meat, eggs and meat processed, milk and dairy products, and other products listed in the Appendix to this Act. Furthermore, the law provides for the following market regulation measures. The market for interventions involving public interventions, private storage support, special intervention measures, adaptation of supply to market requirements, the system of production restrictions and the system of specific aid. Then the rules relating to marketing and production, hence marketing standards, the recognition of producer and sectoral organisations and processing groups, the measures applicable in trade with other countries, so import and export licences, customs quotas and export quotas for sugar and specific measures for certain sectors. Here, it is necessary to say that all the measures previously listed will not be applicable, and that is what the Secretary of State said in his opening statement, automatically after we pass this law because for the application of all these measures, there will have to be circumstances on the market and we will have to create all the assumptions that are necessary for these measures to be applied. We from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community hold that the adoption of this law comes at the right time and that it is a regulation that will in a transparent and quality way contribute to the improvement of the agricultural product market in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, certain mechanisms contribute to the quality of market surveillance and thus facilitate the predictability of possible disturbances, which will certainly enable timely activation of adequate market measures and a reduction of the overall market risk. Finally, we believe that this law and a kind of message to our farmers that, in the event of serious market disturbances, they will not remain devoid of or left to themselves, but will have a quality legal framework to address all the problems caused by such circumstances. And lastly, in addition to this support to the law, the adoption of this law, I would like to say that the club of HSS and HDZ representatives has submitted one amendment to Article 11, so we propose to add another item that regulates the possibility that the Government in certain major disturbances, means on the market that would arise for all those sectors of agriculture listed in Article 3 of this Law, can intervene in the market with its decision to reduce the possible consequences and damages that would result from such a disturbance. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42924	Thank you. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42925	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural market is, in any case, one of those texts which is not particularly attractive for some broader debates, however, it is one legal text that should, in the future, determine some guidelines and ways and rules of conduct, even if I so say conditionally and some kind of trade culture on our market. Previously, I would like to begin this presentation with two only, quoting two sentences from one answer to my colleagues' question, Grubisic, which was answered by the Government, so he says, among other things, on a similar subject, but the sentences, the explanations are very interesting. And he says, "Our country's market is open and there is no state interventionism in the business of companies that are run by the free logic of business and the conditions of the liberal market." The second thesis, i.e. the answer, was, of course, market liberalisation reduced the possibility of customs protection of domestic agricultural and food products resulting in an increase in imports. So, if we start from this response from the government to the question of fellow MPs, then we open up a debate about what our market is like today. We at the SDSS club think this is a typical neoliberal market with all those characteristics and dangers that this kind of free trade carries. We think it's characterized by two things. First of all, it's at the present moment, so first of all, it's monopolies syndrome. What does that mean? This means, for us, that the market is being controlled today, I am talking about the agricultural product market being controlled today by monopolies through their purchasing capacities which are the only ones who have and are the only ones who are able to have such capacity to buy agricultural products, they are the only ones who are to classify and select these agricultural products, and they are also automatically counting on the person who teaches such a product in their own way. At the same time, they do not have an alternative in some way, they do not have an alternative or substitution in some other kind of purchases such as formerly organised cooperatives, such as a cooperative that has picked up all excess agricultural products from that farmer who did not manage best on the market by selling his goods. Certainly the market is controlled by monopolies today and through pricing, because in the end they only have final sales, they have mega-markets, large sales chains that dictate the price, and then we see it in the media that they can set the price of flour, the price of sugar, etc. to raise it, or to lower it when they consider it to be some kind of interest or some kind of political moment. These monopolists at ours at the same time control the payments on the market. Why pay? Because they are the biggest buyers and because they should be and pay the most for these agricultural products. At the same time, they are in a position to form state needs for the import of certain agricultural products. Another thing that we, which we have detected as a market situation right now, is certainly not a bit promising, which is the emergence of a general indifference on the agricultural product market, and we believe that this phenomenon of inequitability is once again generated by those who are the biggest buyers, who have a monopoly buyout, a monopoly of storage, and who should be properly executed in some correct frameworks of paying for their bought-out products. And what's even worse is the repercussion of all that, which is the insolvency of peasants. It is precisely because of the behaviour of the monopolies on the market that farmers today cannot charge their product at 7, 8, 12 months. The wheat hasn't been paid yet, the apples haven't been paid yet, the bought-out cattle haven't been paid yet. It is likely to be paid in some kind of meals during the next calendar year, which means approximately an extension of agony to this farmer because each of them is in credit, each of them has certain obligations that must be met and that they expect to pay with great expectation that his goods are properly bought and stored. Why am I saying that? Because what I'm trying to say is that in this kind of chaotic state of the market that it is, maybe it's not very popular to say and admit, but it's de facto that in the space that I come from, from Eastern Slavonia and Baranja where a bunch of peasants are in the same problem that I'm talking about right now, there's a need and it's really a good thing that the ministry has decided to propose this kind of concept of market regulation, so the concept of measures. Well, at the very least, if it isn't, if these measures aren't the most ideal we think it's about time they were offered as regulation of this market. I'd say two things here. First, I would like to say two dilemmas about the metrics itself, about the legal decisions themselves, and then I would like to ask the Ministry's representative, the secretary of state, since he's here, so I have a chance to ask him to explain to me a concept that, which is not quite clear to me, and I'm going to do something about that later. So first these two dilemmas. I believe that the solution that the paying agency has obtained the right, the mandate to issue import licences or to distribute customs quotas has led me to consider whether this is the best solution, or whether we have opened up to one organization, one institution that is only in the field, which has not yet been teamed up, or technically we have given it too much of a task, we have opened up too much of a maneuvering space for tomorrow to speculate whether this man who is physically doing this job and is in charge of selecting this request from his paraph, from this requirement that consent and quota not be given to this. So, to create one perception of speculation and to some, some say subjective assessments to whom to give, and to whom not to give the right to import, or customs quotas which in this whole business will be actually the most attractive thing. The second dilemma that we express here is that of Article 8 is the number of market interventions, and as a measure under b) here it is said that this is support for private storage. It doesn't have to be bad for itself if we take the fact that we have a lot of storage space, that we have formed buyers, warehouses, etc. And now we support them, stimulate them in a way that gives them a certain amount of money from a price so that they can be stimulated to buy, to buy it in private. The negative experience of that is next. In space, I repeat again, Eastern Slavonia and Baranja, in which the fruit industry was in great expansion and hundreds of acres in the last six, seven years have not been raised up by the real coolant with... standards, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have one thing and it's tied to a monopoliest on the market. And now we have a situation where this one-bought buyer gets from an apple buy-in grant of 0.80 lips per kilogram and the guaranteed first-class price is two-and-a-half kuna. So, in those two and a half kunas guaranteed by the state, he was given another 80 liras for ransom. He collects signatures and collects quotas for buying from producers and doesn't buy most of those apples. So don't put it in the warehouse. Those who buy, they classify as second class, pay for one kuna or industrially 60 limes and practically collapse... production in our space for the only reason it's the only one, for the reason it can behave like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Wasn't it logical that these 80 limes or how much, if we think it is necessary to encourage them to get direct producers who have significantly higher costs and whose production imputes are such that with these, with this first class of two and a half kuna they can hardly be covered under ideal conditions. So I'm saying this for reasons I suspect this is the best solution in a situation where we don't have those very private warehouses prepared. We brought in that document called in some kind of property law sense called the warehouse, which in that case should be some kind of property document that could be used on the market as a guarantee to manufacturers. Did that warehouse work? Is he following these measures this warehouse in that formal sense? I don't know. I hope so. But I do know that it is limited to a certain narrow circle of products that are purchased and covered by that warehouse. I therefore raise some doubt about these measures, especially in support of private storage. I think that should be defined in a slightly different way. I would ask you and take the opportunity to tell me, it may not be directly related to this, but it is in the context of production and the context of the market and the context of the imports of fruits and vegetables, and who we say we have enough and we import fruit from the outside. We're being threatened by large imports of apples from China now. At the same time, the rules are such that by entering the European Union, I hope that it will be next year, it is a ban on raising plantations, so it blocks all this activity completely. There's a catastre in formation, and that's the quota we're dealing with. I'm asking a question, and I don't understand why we didn't use this and next year's incentive to increase that available amount of plantation, that in these two years, this year and next year we could use that possibility to raise the plantations? I'm telling you that the moment we said that we would no longer pay for the support of 45 thousand kuna for the vineyard or 22 for the orchard, the planting stopped. The private owner is no longer able, no financial opportunities to finance the rise of a hectare plant. So I think there's been a mistake, and I think it should have ended with the accession process. And I see I'm running out of time. I think this law should finally be on the agenda before. We'll accept it as a club and expect that this law will at least give some hope to people who are producers, and cattle in space, so they have no one to sell it to. That they won't have any more cheap New Zealand lamb in their competition, that they won't be in the market for more Chinese apples, that Chilean wine won't threaten their production. If we're going to do this in some way to make such regulation and protect the market, then I think we've done a good job with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-25-0.u42926	Final proposal of the Law on the Regulation of the markets in agricultural products, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 467. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and Joint Clubs of HDZ and HSS Representatives. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? Unanimity with 92 votes for the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15 hours with debate on the final proposal of the Agriculture Act and further towards the proposed agenda until due time.
