ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39413	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must say, I'm honored to speak again in front of this House High on the Law of Medical Insemination. On a law that, or on a part of the health system that has not been regulated for 30 years, the law would be the subject of many controversy and court disputes, but let me vote before I go to the very heart of the law and that part of the changes that we have agreed and that we will put to the vote at this session of the Parliament in terms of improving this law. I will take this opportunity because the last month has been difficult, and sometimes impossible, so hard, and sometimes impossible, to come with the right information and to the media, to the newspaper, to television, so I will use this speaker to respond to all those misinformations, and also to the medieval, most radical, the worst thing that could happen to Croatia is this minister who is now speaking, but thanks to the media who have also talked and talked and talked about this law because you will see during this debate, and I think that you are deeply aware that given the specificity of the problem, you must be deeply in there as a doctor to understand, and that means that it was possible to misinformation and to those journalists who wrote about this law in the most rigorous way possible. That's why I'm going to use this pay phone, here's Milinovic disproves 200 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia, says: "Infertility is fought in Croatia by 200 thousand people and 700 thousand citizens." Well, look at the misinformation. I'm writing paper away from the profession right now. So I'm going to let myself get out of here today because according to the Rules of Procedure, he can't speak to the president of the Human Reproductive Society and 20 doctors who deal with this problem. I'll allow myself, Mr. President, to speak today and be the messenger of that profession. Now look at yesterday's headline in one daily newspaper saying 200 thousand women are struggling with the problem of heavy conception and 700 thousand others. So 900 grand in total struggles with that problem. A major profession in the Republic of Croatia is about 900 thousand women of reproductive age. Which results from everyone who is of childbearing age having problems with it, and whether or not it's just too much, 20 thousand couples have been declared infertile. Well, look at that text, I'm not gonna show it to TV so I don't advertise the daily newspaper. Milinovic disproved 200,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry there's no parliamentary representative, Ingrid Anticevic. The law on insemination is violence, the Constitutional Court, God forbid someone from HDZ said that, beware the Constitutional Court has to annul it at a public session, so it wasn't even at the time of communism. The Constitutional Court must annul it. We are not stopping here, Milinović's law has now driven doctors out of Croatia. So, I'm reading to you just some of the media inscriptions with which he naturally fell on his shoulders, I think they're pretty strong, Minster Milinovic, who, of course, is the most politically responsible for this law. But Milinovic's lies defends bad law. The SDP press conference whose misinformation is at the border, so I think the violation of the law is, to misinformed the Croatian public in the way it was done at the press conference, that we are the only, listen well, the only country in Europe that today has no chance of treating infertility. I repeat, we are the only country in Europe that cannot cure infertility today in the Republic of Croatia. The law has suspended any procedure for medical insemination, and many private clinics announce their departure abroad. It's bordering on breaking the law, I'll say it here. So, August 2004, the number of procedures in Croatia was zero, August 2005, why August, because it was then returning from vacations and then the press conference was, August 2005, the number of procedures zero. This Croatia simply needs to hear, how it is disinfected and how those who have problems with it and in what situation. Number of proceedings in 2006 one and number of proceedings in 2007 two. So, neither are we the only country in Europe that has been suspended because of the medical insemination process, but because of every year because of collective vacations, it is true that it has been suspended as every year in the 8th month. And next year, if you have a press conference, say we're the only country in Europe where the medical fertilization has been stopped. But I said I'd be a messenger to the profession. That's what's up. ... Yeah, it's on the law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you live in a country where you can order me to do what I say with this pay phone, I don't live in that country. So let me. It's lifted on. ... Well, that's not true. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39414	I'll address if I judge that it's necessary... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39415	So the truth hurts. Let's move on. That's what raised the waist. I have to misinform, and even if, allow me, Mr. President, even if I break the Statute a little bit, because this is important for the Croatian public, for the citizens who have these problems. That's what raised the waist. Dr. Mladen Busic, "this is my report to the General Hospital of St. The spirit is arranged in hospitals that do so, performing procedures related to artificial insemination that confirm memos from the clinic." Slavko Oreshković, head of the Women's Diseases Clinic. "Because of the frequent media articles, I would like to inform you that the Women's Diseases and Breeds Clinic is still taking place in the process of medical insemination." Professor Herman Haller, KBC River "Medical Insemination Procedures continue." A statement from the Ministry of Health and Social Care after meeting with those dealing with the problem. "It is stressed that medical fertilisation procedures take place in the Republic of Croatia uninterrupted, and that there is no need, as before, for patients to seek help beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia." Mr. President, I had to say this to expose misinformation, not to use a worse word that further pressured the emotions of those who really have problems with it. So it's said, you can't tell the rules when I say that under certain circumstances, storage is allowed, that is, to be clear to everyone, to freeze embryos, under certain circumstances. It is then noted that the minister cannot change the rules of law. It's like the minister doesn't know. He was the Vice-President of the Parliament, and he knows that the rule cannot be amended. But for the sake of truth, phonogram 8.7, so when this law was passed. So, "we allow the freezing of embryos, but only in that part of the day if an unfavourable period of disease or any other circumstances of the woman came, so that it would not be optimal to transfer the embryo." So I said that in my first debate and when you said I didn't have the support of the profession. Fonogram 8.7 from that session. I quote, at the end of the day when it was you, and I thought I wouldn't mention Professor Simunic, the man who taught me gynecology, I'll read you his memo. "In conclusion, Mr. Minister, I think the bill is long expected and correct, you show determination and desire for the progress of our health, which delights me. I congratulate you with all my heart and I want you to endure." That's not what the support said. Thank you very much. That's not what the support said, so yesterday, the day before yesterday or the last 15 days, but that's what the waist said in some way when the law was passed. According to Minister Milinovic, he is lying to disinform the Croatian public, I quote "is the director of the Institute for Reproductive Medicine in Toronto". And imagine being denied says, the minister didn't call him. Well, I didn't call, but I was quoting all the things that the honorable gentleman said in one paper, which is that the survival of frozen egg cells is 60%. And I was really wrong. Is survival of egg cells not 60% of ladies and gentlemen. So, as you can see, he doesn't speak to Health Minister Darko Milinovic as a politician, but as a profession. The survival of egg cells is between 78 and 92%, insemination between 73 and 79%, pregnancy between 20 and 57%. That's what Fadini and Griffin and the others say. And don't accidentally call Mr. Fadini because I didn't call. I just read his papers, just like he did the waist. But we need to discredit ourselves in some other way, because this hurts. This hurts. This reduces the space of politicization, the harshest possible way to produce this law. The profession supports the Law on Medical Insemination. Don't insult the profession so they can be bought with a million kunas. Don't insult the profession, maybe so I'd like to ask you, so don't pollemize whether or not the profession can be bought. He can't. He can't, you know that very well. Because you have declared Professor Velimir Šimunić that I bought it with a million kuna, as well as Professor Branko Radoković, as well as Professor Hrvoj Vrčić, as well as Professor Srecko Ciglar, but also Professor Krunoslav Kuna, as well as Professor Renat Baumann, as well as Professor Dr Tomislav Canic, but also Professor Latin, but Dr Drazen Pospornik. So these are the people who, at the 7th meeting of the Society of Human Reproduction and the gynological endocrinology, gave consensus to this law. Now I'm going to say a few words and about the rough manipulations that every time a woman goes to the medical fertilization process she goes on a terribly severe puncture and I really mean it, and even here let me be so open and the gynological examination itself causes some discomfort and the puncture is painful. And that's why this law said that a puncture, as people say, will not work live but will prescribe mandatory short-term anesthesia. But even if it wasn't, then we get a puncture of ten egg cells. Look at that misinformation. I have to talk a little bit so that people who talk, who aren't in the profession, understand what they're talking about. Fertilize three egg cells. These seven egg cells freeze. A woman comes back to medical insemination after a year, doesn't have to go to the puncture as you misinform, but we unfreeze these seven three, fertilize, try again. So in a year's time, we've got four left. He doesn't have to go to the puncture again, so don't scare the women who have these problems. I do, and you actually made me, you know, and it's as good as reforming the health system, it's going to be written in the papers again as in health system reform, says someone at the door, come on, say open up, it's the postman. Now he says the spy is not said by the postman, there's Minister Milinovic with his health system reform. Again and thank God, thank God you made me go to Croatian again and talk about real information and try to inform people in the right way. So, you did see, every time a woman comes to artificial insemination she has to go to a painful puncture. Do you see how much disinformation that is, and in other ways, the amount that additionally burdens these women in psychological terms? It's just not true. It's simple and sorry, Mr. President, I have to say, that's a lie. It's just not true. Croatia cannot be in this system with the extraordinary good neighbourly relations that are here thanks to Presidents Kosor and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and coalition partners, including all of us, has these last days with Slovenia, but we cannot agree to be PR Slovenians and that all women in Croatia or couples who have these problems must go to Slovenia. I'm responsible, I'm clearly saying no. Those who have problems with conception, couples, Croatian Government and those who will vote this guarantee you will not have to go to Slovenia and that you will have adequate hospital care here. Today’s newspaper says 150 children are born annually by the procedure of medical fertilisation from frozen embryos. Disinformation. You know how much? I'll say, unfortunately, only 30. Only 30. That's what the waist says. That's all the waist data in front of me. 700 to 800 children are born annually through a medical fertilisation procedure, and of which, unfortunately, only 30 are born out of defrosted embryos. We already have great statistics. No one knew so far, and I will say to myself as Minister of Health it surprised that there are 11 thousand frozen embryos in Croatia, 50% older than 5 years, but this grief, which no one is interested in. And that's why we went and we're going to go on a campaign to try to motivate couples who have one child or two in the process of medical fertilization to come, to take advantage of those frozen embryos so that as many children as possible can be born in Croatia. So, 11,000 plugs. You read the article in a daily newspaper yesterday where it happened in America, where the woman was transferred to the wrong embryo, which she gave birth to, and which child must return it to the biological parents. Until this law is not such a mistake, even possibly someone's intention was also in the Republic of Croatia where the Council of Europe, I said that for the last time, we are the only one in the world, classified alongside Azerbaijan where the procedure of medical insemination in Croatia, illegal medical insemination in Croatia is possible. What allows this law is the freezing of egg cells. Now look at how the waist progresses in that sense, I'd say almost every week. So these are the data of the profession, these are data from the works. 2004. 50% survival of egg cells, 2005. 65%, 2007. 70%, 2008, 2009 between 75% and 90%. We talked a lot about Italy. Five years ago, the only country in Europe that had been banned from freezing traps, today with the Republic of Croatia six. Austria, Switzerland, Poland, I don't know how to name it. But then, we're saying that over the last 4.5 years, the trend in the world is that more and more countries, and some of them are already thinking, will go to a ban on freezing embryos and developing the technology of freezing egg cells. But we referred to Italy that had a similar law to ours. Now look, as you can see, it's not the politician Milinovic who speaks to you, but the owner of Milinovic's profession. That's a very important point. I'll tell you how much, ask me if the waist here has everything. So, Italy until the law is passed, now look how it misinformed in public. Italy to pass such a law as we 51% of successful pregnancy. Now look at how few there are after the adoption of this law 52%. Is that more or less? But let's just say that it's statistically insignificant, so we're not going to abuse it and say more because 52 is more than 51% and we're going to say that statistically it is, staticly it's insignificant. Consensus of the profession on Brijuni. I've been stoically strutting against Rigid Milinovic's law. This is the law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to the consensus of the profession. We are fully prepared and able to, with a brief apprehension, I am proud, yesterday, an embryologist went to an education for rapid freezing or optimisation of egg cells. I'm proud of it. The waist says and wants to remove everything, read, read, I'm a messenger of the profession. You may not like it, but I'm a messenger of the profession. You've been saying a lot that I don't have the support of the profession, so I need to say a little bit what the waist means. Fully prepared and able to actually unwarranted, eliminate any unwarranted anxiety and doubts of patients and firmly convince them with guaranteed quality of treatment Here it rejects all the wrong and scientifically unfounded claims that the new law of the Republic of Croatia will significantly reduce the process of medical insemination. [[Intruder President: Finish if you can.]] There has never been, or there is a possibility or need for, treatment abroad. I'll also move on to the changes in the law. But just one more thing. A thousand women today at a generational age are suffering from malignancies. You know what that means? When she suffers from malignancies she goes to chemotherapy, she goes to radiation, and then she can't become a mother anymore, she can't become a biological mother anymore. This law allows her to, when I tell her that you understand it, and today it's almost in the pandemic of breast cancer, so when a woman diagnosed with breast cancer at that moment, she takes out, stores, freezes her egg cells. When it is cured and 75% of the possibility exists if it is discovered in time when the cure is used and its egg cells frozen before the start of treatment and may become a mother. Is there anything more that this law can do? And if it wasn't for that, if we weren't developing that methodology, we could never become a biological mother. The changes relate to extramarital communities. They say an irresponsible minister changes the law? Yeah. I'm also changing as soon as I see that in a technical sense something can improve the availability of medical insemination parallelly... I'll change it if I have to next week's extramarital community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I really thought and I'm going to say it here, that extraparish procedure that it's very short in three, four days.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39416	Minister, if it can be finished, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39417	Minister Shimonovic told me that, don't shine anywhere. Minister Shimonovic told me it could even take two to three months. So is my criminal what I'm saying we're gonna cut it short, a statement from the public notebook, and within five minutes you can get that status. Is that my cry?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39418	And I'm sorry, Minister, you still have five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39419	So we change that and change something from the child's identity position. I have also been so many times nominated that this law will lead to the destruction of donations in the Republic of Croatia. You know how many there have been in the last six years? Zero, not a single donation. And remember this bill will destroy the donation. But come on, let's do it a little bit. We said the donor could remain anonymous when he donates either seeds or egg cells. He says at that point that, I want to stay anonymous. Once again it can change its decision when the commission informs it tomorrow your egg cell or your seed cell will be used for artificial fertilisation. It can still change from yes to no or from no to yes, so that here is the technical part we take off the agenda and allow and popularize the process of medical fertilization, actually donations in the Republic of Croatia. And otherwise, all the countries in the European Union have very big problems with this. If I'm responsible for anything, I accept that. And you know what? That as Minister of Health and Social Care for a year and a half, I didn't realize that this branch of medicine hadn't been invested in for 20 years. At eight, we fell all the way down. It's my responsibility and I'll say it. I apologize to all those couples who have problems with their pregnancy. I apologize that your minister didn't recognize it in a year and a half that it wasn't invested in it. And that's why we approved the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia a million kuna, which is why ambriologists are already in Athens today eight of them and it can be my crime scene. And here I apologize to all the couples who have these problems. I'm not with reforming all the problems we've had in the health system I didn't recognize. It's my fault for a year and a half that I didn't recognize. But I also guarantee that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I will make it right in these next two and a half years, a little less than two and a half years. I came home, my big kids, so dad, after the press, why didn't you say, why did you forbid artificial insemination? You know what? I got a little squishy. I say, you have to listen to her! You can't forbid me to talk. I say son and two daughters sit down, so say, I have explained. So he says Dad didn't ban it then. So how do some people lie? I hate them. I'm telling Mark, come here. Did Dad ever teach you how to hate? It's not. Don't happen to tell me you hate SDP again. The SDP is a major Croatian party that is also responsible for the creation of the Croatian state. Okay, Dad, I'm sorry. I don't hate it because nobody ever taught me to hate. But you know what I'm gonna tell you, Dad? I'll never vote for SDP. That's where I agree. - Give it up. - Give it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39420	Thank you very much. Here's one, I apologize to the minister for warning him, he had another minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39421	Am I done early?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39422	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39423	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. I, too, advocate that you return the minister for one minute, because in that case he would have been using four minutes to expose the law, and 26 to other topics. Article 210 has been injured, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure both when speaking to the minister and when speaking to a representative. An article 210 was injured, which speaks of the need to stick to the subject of speaking in the congregation. Minister Milinovic, and with attitudes, we will pollomise in the debate, but only technically. This Rules of Procedure may no longer apply to all parties and all people in this House equally, but if it were to be, then Minister Milinovic used 26 minutes to pollomise with journalists, to tell anecdotes, to say the most different things that hit him, and I believe they hit him because politics is such a thing in this period, and 3 minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39424	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39425	No, no, if he can break the Rules of Procedure, I can get one minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39426	You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39427	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39428	You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39429	I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39430	Sit down, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39431	Three minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39432	Sit down, Madam Representative, you have used your time and do not abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39433	3 minutes to talk about the law... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39434	You're committing verbal violence here. And now I'm going to tell you that your call to article 210 from first to last is incorrect because all the time the minister was talking about the law, reacting to the laws, pollomizing what he was right and talking all the time about the law. The fact that you don't like the argument and what he killed from word to word, that's what hurts. That's it. Not that he wasn't talking about it. We have a correction to the incorrect quote, Mrs. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39435	Mr. President, I would like to correct Mr. Secretary's incorrect allegations that he obviously said his words and went out, that the SDP had misinformed the public and said the minister had stopped the MPO. Yeah, that's right. That's not misinformation. Unfortunately, it is a sad fact that the minister has, by one rigid law, stopped the proceedings of medical insemination. He stopped it with this amendment of the law, because it was written inside that within three months it would be written in the rules, which means that the next three months it was stopped. And one more thing. You are the first minister to take away the citizens' right to what a medical profession can do, Croatian medicine can successfully do MPO with the freezing of embryos, and you have taken it away from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and you have no right to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39436	We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39437	I want to correct Mr. Minister when he talks about the method of freezing egg cells, which, among other things, mentions July 17th, is that the National Institute for Reproductive Medicine in Toronto has announced the results that they have the same, if not better results of fertilisation with frozen sex cells than with frozen embryos. But the profession that the minister was now passionately invited to write to him then, she may have changed now, it is the freezing of egg cells complex and expensive, the survival of egg cells after defrosting is 65%, one egg cell gives two to three percent chance of pregnancy, from about three and a half million children born from the medically assisted fertilisation process, only 650 children were born by the method of fertilisation of frozen egg cells, Velimir Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39438	Thank you. We also have a correction, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39439	... The minister claimed that only, that Austria and Poland no longer freeze fertilised egg cells. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] That's incorrect, Mr. Minister. If you don't know, look at the website of the Ministry of Health of those countries. But it is true that all countries freeze all fertilized eggs that are not implanted into women, only Bangladesh and Salvador prohibit the freezing of embryos. That is also what Mr. Simunic said, so you can consult with him. Secondly, when you stated that it was not possible for us to have an illegal implantation of other people's embryos, without the knowledge of that woman, as you presented this example that the woman had to bring back another person's child. With us, you changed the Family Law in a way that made it impossible for women whose eggs were stolen to challenge motherhood to a woman because you restored your mother's definition in a way that the mother was always the one who gave birth to a child. And thus appointed and banned, that is, if illegal implantation or theft of ovaries occur, that the woman to whom it was done, the stolen egg cell to challenge the motherhood of the woman who gave birth to the child.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39440	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Health and Social Care, chairman of the board of Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39441	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Health discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Insemination in accordance with Article 76a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and I will read the report. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The debate followed by most board members supported the proposed amendments and additions, which in their opinion will improve the existing law. In the first place, it is a simplified procedure for recognising the status of the extramarital community by a certified statement from the public notary, avoiding long-term litigation proceedings on the proof of the extramarital community. Second. The provision by which a child born with a medical fertilisation, donated to a seed or ovary, is obtained after his adulthood by the right of entry into the record and the data register of conception and all data on the biological origin of the donor is also updated. Namely, this possibility for a child to exist now, after his age, but if a donor of a sex station gives his consent to a child who is born to a gifted sex cell and allows him the right to gain insight into the data register of conception in writing. The debate found that medical fertilisation by the process of freezing egg cells is a better choice than fertilisation of frozen embryos. In the last 3 years, major success has been achieved in medical fertilisation through frozen egg cells. According to the results, according to the literature data of the survivor and up to 90% of frozen egg cells, this method of success is equal to medical fertilisation of frozen embryos, but does not question moral, ethical, philosophical, religious, or medical issues. It is important to point out that the profession has accelerated the way in which this method has been improved and is ready for the full implementation of the procedure, and with the implementation and improvement of technical conditions for which the Ministry of Health has already provided the funds, these procedures will be even more successful. Therefore, the opinion is expressed that there is no need to amend the provision on the ban on the freezing of embryos, and this has also been a positive point of view at a recent expert international conference. The proposed Law is an incentive for faster harmonisation of the medical fertilisation process in our institutions with advanced trends in professions in the world. After the discussion, members of the Committee voted with one vote against, one abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39442	Thank you. The other nobody answered. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39443	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law that is before us, or amendments to the law, has seen more proposals and more changes in recent years, but one law that would systematically regulate the whole area has never been passed. This area is very sensitive both from a medical point of view and from an ethical point of view and from a legal point of view. Let us remember recent affairs in us, and there were of course in the world because a large number of countries, including the European Union, do not have until the end of a harmonised legal framework for all that is needed for medically successful and ethically and legally successful medical fertilisation. We believe that the Law that is before us with its amendments is an absolutely huge step in the legal regulation of the conditions for medical insemination. THAT will significantly improve the profession, make it possible for all couples to do what they want, and this is a successful process of medical insemination, and they will no longer need to travel abroad. These changes would mention three basic things. The first is that this Law simplifies the procedure for out-of-marriage partners who can, indeed, make a very simple statement with the public notary, exercise their right to access the process of medical insemination. The second thing that's settled here, at the request of the public, is the right of the child to find out who his parent is, who's the donor of the sex station with which the child was conceived under the condition of written consent. This is a provision that, in part, gives up and turns away from the declaration of child rights, in which the child's right to know his parents is absolute. It is one part limited here, I believe it is in line with the existing European norms and will not change almost. In any case, such a procedure exists now. What's most debated is what this law hasn't changed, and that's freezing the mattresses. And that's where Mr. Minister made the expert argument, and I would add that this is one of the few examples where the profession is driven by the legislator. Namely, the gap between the legislative solution and what the waist was doing is obvious. And because someone asks why such changes in attitudes and us who have previously participated in proposing such laws, precisely because there have been major changes in the profession. The freezing of the egg cell has become such a successful method that the freezing of the embryo is no longer necessary for the success of fertilisation. There should be added a whole series of evidences that show that up to 90% of successful egg cell freeze allows for subsequent fertilisation. YES, the total number of successful fertilisations goes up to 30% as well as with procedures, while freezing of embryos was allowed. So, the success of the profession and the development of the profession has actually forced legislators to change their frameworks, and perhaps with us the legislator is a step ahead of some other countries because it is a convenient coincidence that the health minister is exactly a gynecologist, so he understands and monitors the development of the profession and has brought the two together. For all those who fear that there will be negative consequences, I would say that this is also covered by the consensus of the profession, which says that by 15 April 2010, the profession, the association of the Ministry, will show six-month results in new frameworks and compare them with earlier ones and quote them, these data will be the basis for further analysis and discussion. Therefore, the legislator also provides the possibility of a professional, political public debate on the first 6 months of the consequences of this law. Which I think is very correct and I believe is one of the main reasons why the profession has given such unanimous support and one of the reasons why it should be here in this high house to support this law. What you should say about frozen entanglements is what's actually clear to everyone now. 11 thousand mattresses live in the ice age of the Republic of Croatia, deep frozen in refrigerators, 11 thousand mattresses. Over half for more than five years, when they will be used and what is the fate of this embryo, and I now remind you of the profession and the worldview, the embryo is a living being, not only in a spiritual sense, but also genetic. It's proven his genetic code, it's exactly the same in all the details of the adult genetic code. All its life properties have already been drawn in its deoxyribonucleic acids, in its purinic and pyramidic bases that I do not speak now in the language of the profession. There's no colour in the eyes or character that's not drawn or sealed in that frozen cover. Do we have the right to keep him in deep freeze for years and then eventually destroy him and throw him away? If there is an alternative method that does not do so with such a living being, and that alternative method is legalized by this law and therefore the profession gives it full support. I would say again from that data the minister said, out of about 800 medical fertilisation procedures a year, only 30 used a frozen embryo. Therefore, it does not stand out what was intended to be imposed on the public that the number of medical fertilisations would now be smaller, although it would be bigger and bigger and the profession in its consensus signed a project in which the number of medically assisted fertilisations would increase to 2500 per year, tripled. And that's what needs to be supported. I think if the profession is behind the law, and it stands, if there is an agreement on six months of monitoring results and a re-debate, and it stands, it should actually remove all our misunderstandings and bring us into line in all our views. I would like to point out from the concensus of the profession with the legislator and with this law that the profession gives support to this law, that the profession is particularly pleased with the law and other activities of the ministry and the HZZO reformed the profession, that this reform is noble, in a broader sense not only medically, that the profession in point 3 is fully prepared and able to use this law with a brief appraisal to increase the number of medical fertilisations. There are unwarranted fears and doubts that quality or number will fall and there is no need to go abroad. What they particularly reflect and I think that for every commendation, what the Ministry and HZZO have decided to help this short-term education that is an education because we have excellent experts, but they need to catch up with this rapid development of the profession in this area and not an important step in paying for the number of attempts of medical fertilisation, which is increased in a way. So the medical fertilisation is out of bounds, so the hospital's business will not be brakes for medical fertilisation because the money will be secured beyond that limit. So it's legal to pay for six procedures, which is certainly unique and should be supported. And yet I want to point out that the profession in writing shows that the overall success of medical fertilization will rise to about 35%, which is more than we had with frozen traps. So simply because of such an attitude, the legislator did not change that provision and left it to be further frozen, therefore, alive persons, living individuals, freeze the egg cells because they will achieve the same success with much less ethical, moral, and medical doubts. The Republic of Croatia needs about 2 and a half thousand to 3 thousand medical fertilisation procedures annually. Now there's only one third of it. If the profession promises us in writing that it will reach that number of 2 and a half, 3 thousand even outreach it to 3 and a half thousand on the terms of this law, I think it should be supported, and in the end, I stress once again that in this agreement, it is crucial for me to monitor the six-month results that will show who was right, and the legislator is bound together with the profession after such a careful analysis again. All of these are reasons why the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this law because we think it is a positive step, that we will have finally regulated this sensitive area with all those elements that completely prevent any abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39444	Thank you. We have one, two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mrs. Milanka Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39445	I'm going to correct the incorrect quote of fellow Hebrang, who was saying that in the profession, a lot has changed in the last three months. So you're a colleague of Hebrang's doctor and you know there's no revolution in medicine in three months. It's very interesting, for example. Prof. Simunic wrote a letter at 6 months saying this: "We expect difficulties and weaker results without the possibility of freezing covers." It showed experience in Italy and Germany. The choice and direction of this IVF according to today's standards is not the best choice of treatment for infertility. I must admit that it is a very questionable profession that, under certain influences and incentives, changes its opinion from June to today, so only in 3 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39446	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39447	On this trail, what Mrs. Opačić has stated is incorrectly that you have now established in your presentation that the waist has developed rapidly within 3 months. This is incorrect, in fact, you abuse the development of a profession that developed long ago, but you don't want to admit it, but now you're only partially correcting your mistakes, but not to that extent and scope, you're justifying that the profession has evolved for the last 3 months, so the last time since this last amendment or the adoption of the law itself. So that's just your way out of this never-ending and never-ending situation where basically all those couples for a child that you're so longing for are still in a difficult situation. Therefore, it does not match the development of the profession with the development of this government and that is the main problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39448	So the waist doesn't develop according to power. Well, we didn't know that. We're gonna fix it a little bit. It is up to the SDP club and Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39449	Dear Mr. President and distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, we predicted that this would be, that we'd meet again, and I think we'd meet again. We warned two months ago that this would happen and we said don't do it because the law will have to change, the law isn't good and it needs to be changed, and obviously something happened in these two months. I don't know if I've lived in a movie or slept through this time, but obviously nothing has changed in society, and we haven't changed in two months since we passed the bill voted most of the HDZ we're changing the law now. We're changing it, but we're not changing it the way we're supposed to change it. We do not change it in a way that Croatian citizens benefit from this law. Namely, every year according to the estimates of the medical profession about a thousand women with or without a partner can't start with a natural path, and wanted me to admit it or not the situation is that at this point, in a month, somewhere over 50 couples leave the country and more and more will go outside Croatia looking for that help, and wanting to get that child so much wanted. When we talk about the profession, then we must base ourselves on the European profession not only on the Croatian profession and so I plead the minister to consult foreign experts in this area, because it is obvious that our experts are changing their minds about how the wind is blowing. Therefore, we are medics, colleagues Milinovic and colleagues of Golem and fellow State Secretary are doctors, and when we have different opinions with us, then we ask for a second opinion. Therefore, if in Croatia we have a problem with the profession that has now said, now like this, my proposal is for a second opinion in Europe, there are a lot of experts who will be able to give a relevant answer to this question. And what does the European Federation say? She says that in Croatia only 1.3% of children are born with medically assisted fertilisation and we are at the bottom of 15 European countries. In the first place is Denmark with 4.2. But look at the devil, in the second place, Slovenia 3.5%. The colleagues from Slovenia are not EPP, but all colleagues from Slovenia have studied this method in Petrovo and transferred it to Slovenia. Slovenia didn't have this method, they're better now than we are. We said all that two months ago, we warned, we prayed, don't pass this law. We said you'd change it. But, that is Croatia, the Croatian Parliament is one where good initiatives are not respected, but goes in a cross-country way, so when it hits the wall, then things have to be fixed. We welcomed that in Croatia the marriage and the extramarital community is equal, that the law is unconstitutional. And the only explanation is that marriages are more permanent, that there is greater certainty that children will be raised in a community of men or women. So let's put it this way, Minister Milinovic says "The outsider union is equal to marriage in family legislation, the only effect of the duty of mutually abstention of extramarital comrades and the arrangement of property relations". counterpart Petir also says "The family legislation of the extramarital community is equal to marriage only in the impact of the duty of mutually abstention of the extramarital comrades". A colleague Kundić referred to an old age, so he says, "At the time of the Early Testament, both parents had no chance of being without the Creator," so we returned to those times. Now we're offered an explanation. It's about compliance with the Family Law. So I didn't really see that we were changing or I missed some debate where they changed family law. And not to say the example from court practice, where one of the extramarital comrades went to court to legalize that part by law, then the judge asked them, please, and where is the will, because they thought someone had died, so now it's a debate on the property in the extramarital community. We explained that this article would fall in the Constitutional Court. Now you're saying it's going down in the Constitutional Court again. So why are you passing an unconstitutional law? Because since this law is now, you said that who is not for marriage, is not for children, how now that this law is for those who are for marriage and for not, but it is for children. But let's keep going. We warned you that because of the lack of legal regulations, banks disappear, that we have no sperm banks... genetic material. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Naturally, it is not there, because it was a bad law, but we said so, if we let children know the identity of donors that we will not have sperm banks in Croatia and that these children will not be born. And you changed that. Thank God you've changed. It is likely that in Croatia, however, we will have the opportunity to have banks of sperm and egg cells so as to enable those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who need it to exercise their legal right. However, you have remained hard-core in something that is, in fact, the essence and essence of this law. This is what someone sees further for Croatia's progress and where someone should put Croatia in place. You prohibit the freezing of the mattresses and say, though, you allow the embryo to freeze in special cases, which is not a feature of the HDZ gentlemen. But let's say minimal progress in the law. But what happens if three egg cells are fertilized during the procedure and the woman agrees to only one transfer? In fact, the law allows the fertilisation of three egg cells and states that all embryos must return to the woman's womb. It's like the waist says very risky, because of the possibility of multiple pregnancy. And according to the explanation we received from the Ministry of Health, the woman will have to tell the special committee how many she wants the embryos to return to her womb. If he only wants one, then only one egg cell can fertilize. We've made an administration and we've put women in a very uncomfortable position to decide which in the world is something quite normal and very simple. And the European recommendation is that in those centres that have good success in this area, only one embryo is returned to the womb of a woman. Not only did we put women in an unspeakable situation, we put embryologists in an unspeakable situation, because then they played God. Because they have to decide which of those 6,7,8,9,10 egg cells, which three will fertilize, which 6 or 7 will freeze, by what criteria. There is no criterion, no matter what embryologists we have sent to further education, but they cannot be educated which cells have no evidence, which cells will fertilize and which cells will not fertilize. According to statistics of 10 egg cells, seven of them will fertilize, and only 1.3 embryos will be able to return to the womb. It's gonna happen and everyone's warning you, you're deaf to it. But you will see what will happen, that women will say to the committee that they want to return three embryos to their womb, with the desire to have that desired child. Because in that case you are at risk of multiple pregnancies, the triplets are a danger to both mother and children. And yet I remind you of the recommendation of the European Society for Human Reproduction and Embryology, that in those centres that have good success is possible and only one embryo should be transferred. Gentlemen of HDZ, freezing egg cells is not the world's first choice of infertility treatment. If someone conditioned me and showed me the data, that's where we waved hard with papers and data, if someone told me it was the first choice in treating infertility, I'll come from this pay phone, I was wrong. In the world, freezing egg cells is not the first choice in treating infertility. It's like in medicine instead of a laparoscopy that's modern and good, you go into one method that's completely unknown and you don't know how to reach it. Regardless, Professor Hebrang, on the progress of the profession, nowhere in the world has she yet been evaluated and no one knows what's going on with that method. God forbid she's alive, but it's not true that she's the choice to treat infertility and let's not talk about it. Freezed egg cells is not the first method of treating infertility and we give citizens of the Republic of Croatia what is best in the world so that they can choose what and how to choose with their traps or egg cells. If we're giving a woman a chance to choose whether she'll be returned with one embryo or three embryos, gentlemen, why can't we give them the opportunity to choose I want my egg cells frozen or I want them frozen. That's the same thing. Now for something I say here, it can, but that's why it can't. And for God's sake, ask for a second opinion because here's what the waist says, God forbid we're making so much progress soon and that the technology of freezing egg cells is going to be great and that we're going to be pregnant and out of frozen egg cells. But it's simply not the highest standard. What science has established to date, and 90% of the countries have accepted the freezing of mattresses that are in collegiate with our law. I estimate the success of the proceedings will fall from the current 30 to 40% to 22%. You know who says that? Professor Dr Velimir Šimunić, President of the Croatian Society for... And human medicine at 6 months this year before Brijuni. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Brijuni are known for some sort of Brijuni prey and all, we will remember Brijuni for embryonic pneumonia where the profession for some reasons of its own, whether selfish or some others, suddenly changed its mind or maybe it's an opinion that everyone interprets as they please. I like movies, so there's a good movie called "Sex, Lies and Videotapes." That movie is very good, but I'm not going to tell you about the movie, I'm going to tell you about some prejudices about this law. Well one of the prejudices or dogma is, it's not true that it's enough to fertilize three eggs for the success of extra-body fertilisation. It is true that success depends on woman and diagnosis, only in young, healthy women with the best prognosis when male infertility is sufficient to ensure that the procedure is successful. If the woman is older, if she has infertility, then we need a much larger number of egg cells. For this reason, neither European country is limited to the number of egg cells allowed to fertilise in one procedure. It's not true that every fertilized egg cell is a child. When we refer to the profession, and we refer to medicine, it is true that over 50% of fertilized egg cells are, if women are over 40 years old and up to 90% often unhealthy since they have the wrong number of chromosomes. It's a tribute to our civilization, and it's a tribute to our lives. And that's why these traps stop developing and end up being an early spontaneous abortion and what we call a biochemical pregnancy in medicine. Even healthier embryos have only 60 to 70% chance of being implemented into the womb, so they don't have 100%. Medicine isn't, we're the kind that has the slightest fertility of all the species that live on this earth. And now with this method, we're still reducing it even more than it is. I can tell it's a lie that freezing embryos is murder. By freezing embryos, it is possible for a woman to avoid re-hormonal treatment and the extraction of egg cells as they do not all have to return to the womb at the same time. Multiple pregnancies that are dangerous to women and children are avoided. And this story about 100 and a few children born from frozen embryos is true, and it's also true that it's only 30, and why? Because we no longer have that method in Croatia. In 1999 we had somewhere, 90 we had about 2,000 procedures in Petrovo, and in Croatia we had less than a thousand. That's why we have fewer pregnancies and frozen embryos. Couples who could have had a child and were forced to submit to this expensive and painful process deserve at least one thing, understand at least one thing. If they're not lucky enough to have such a wanted child and they have to submit to this procedure, the least we can do is let them choose whether or not they want to freeze their egg cells and whether or not they want to freeze their traps. Minister, leave that decision to those who will do anything to have such a wanted child. For these reasons, although the amendments proposed by the SDP have been introduced in the law, unless provisions permitting the freezing of embryos are introduced, the SDP will not support these amendments to the law, because this law is written in a way that puts couples in a humiliating position and definitely does not offer a good solution, nor does the solution recommended by the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39450	Thank you. We've got corrections. First is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39451	Thank you, Mr. President. Seeing as there's a lot of corrections to incorrect allegations, I'll concentrate on only one. You're a colleague of Mrs. Smack's. Our profession changes its mind about how the wind blows or something. So, I disagree with that, that's an incorrect quote. I believe you don't think so either, and I don't know what made you say that, because I don't believe that you absolutely don't, you change your mind about anything, let alone how the wind blows. And on the other hand, I think we should just say this one more time, and according to what the minister was saying and why he was warned here. Well, it's because of the pressure of the public, so on whom it's carried out such journalism, it's also an act of error. So when people saw what it was about and what it was about and when they met directly with this law, they certainly gave their position to the one who gave and supported the minister and thank them for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39452	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39453	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is the honourable representative, he said on several occasions, saying: there is no medically assisted insemination in Croatia and they are leaving for Slovenia. That's really not true. If you were listening to the presentation of the minister where the directors of the KBC Holy Spirit, the clinical hospitals, said we are still carrying out the fertilization artificial. Rijeka, KBC Rijeka, Petrova as the largest institution. So that's absolutely incorrect, you're cheating on the public again. And out of 1,500 couples seeking help, 50 of them, you said themselves, went to Slovenia. That's 3%. Well, in every branch of medicine, someone's going to seek treatment abroad or go out. And let's not make it that it's not good in Croatia, that the profession doesn't do its job. The profession has given its opinion on this law. He says the law is good. Therefore, let us not continue to deceive the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39454	Thank you. Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39455	Thank you, Mr. President. On several occasions, Mrsic stated that in the world freezing egg cells is not the first choice of treatment for infertility. It is not Italy, Austria and Switzerland, etc. They're not from another planet, they're from the world. And they have these countries, and it's also necessary to mention, they have a restraining order. And so, automatically, this is the first choice. And the profession and medical science are progressing. So here's the part that our profession says is capable of short education, etc. to accept these modern methods, etc. So, absolutely not your quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39456	Thank you. And Mrs. Carmela Caparin's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39457	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect assumption that the profession changed the opinion in that part which the colleague cites only one colleague, Professor Velimir Šimunić, and forgets to list Mr Velik Vlaisavljevic, who at the time defended their views and is not from Croatia, but from Maribor, or from Slovenia, which results you are constantly calling for. And it's incorrect that this law puts couples in a humiliating position. I think the goal for all of us is to help these couples get to a child not in a humiliating position, but in a way that hurts both the child and the mother that is thus so hyperstimulated by hormones, and you know what that hyperstimulation means. But it won't be repeated as many times as it's been repeated so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39458	Thank you. It's the SDSS Club and Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. And I'm sorry! I'm sorry, sir. He asked for a minister before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39459	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to react to a few thoughts here. You said 50 couples were looking for it. I'd just like to see the statistics, because the Society of Human Reproduction just because there's no law there's absolutely no statistics. We've even been searching for statistics for 10 days to know just how many children were born this year... procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now I wonder how you know it's 50. But let's say it's 50. But then you must tell the complete fact that so far and before this law couples went to Slovenia. So, there I can agree with you that it's 50, let's make it true. But for complete information before this law, not the same, but the same 50 couples went out to Slovenia or I don't know, but I don't know where. So he's doing all the information. Now you're the one who said we're making God out of biologists. Now that you've said it, I have to react to it. So we have a biologist who determines from an ova that are not living being to determine the three best and that they go into the process of medical insemination. So you accuse us of creating God from a biologist, and you really want to create God from a biologist. So that this biologist of 10 frozen, actually 10 embryos that are a living being, that this biologist determines that this embryo will live, this one won't, and these three go as you suggested in that law can die. So now I'm asking you all who the greater God is? The one who decides and is now educated to find the best three egg cells and I agree that this is not a simple procedure, I agree. That's absolutely correct. Just like it's not an easy procedure that's the best embryo. But there's only a difference between embryos and embryos. The embryo is a human being with all its characteristics, a living thing. The egg station isn't. So I ask the question of who is greater God and who more than. And now you say it like this. He doesn't know the profession where it's number one method, so Italy, Ireland, Poland, Germany. The recommendation of the profession in Germany not to freeze the traps, and Switzerland, and we're sixth. So if Italy, Ireland, Poland, Germany, Switzerland, I don't know what other countries I might agree with. So it's a number one choice in these countries and more and more countries are going to be choosing number one. And now you're saying you don't know what's gonna happen if we have to talk to the profession, Europe, the world. Yeah, you said it yourself. I'm a doctor. My two Secretary of State Golem, Jurkovic, doctors Vibor and everyone here, yes, that's exactly what I'm talking about. I'll say here that the Society of Human Reproduction told me like this. Ministers are truly amazed by these results because so far there has been a law that has not forced us to see and use new technologies, and partly because of the fact that the esteemed representative Bagaric has changed his mind, that we are very much guided by the thinking of the profession. I guarantee here that we will be the leader of the region again in a very soon time and in the freezing of egg cells. And now look... Maybe it's not your domain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One expert in that, Borini, Sethi, La Sala, Desant says so. We heard somewhere here that the percentage of survival of an egg cell is one to three percent. But gentlemen, that was four, five years ago. Today this information is said by these experts, European and world experts. Today it is, now listen to today in four years 20%. How many percent is more than 3 here, figure it out. So we've been consulting the profession, and it's good that this debate is going in this direction where you started and I thank you for this debate. So, and what the waist says success and also... These are all data of the profession of Europe, the world, that cumulative success, pregnancy in Italy, I said, with 51 before the law now with this law is similar to ours 52%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what the waist said. When you said mild protocols. Yeah, the milder the protocols, to avoid hyperstimulation. Hyperstimulation means when an ovary produces as many cells as possible. Okay, but now look at the data to this day. 88 births, 30% multiple pregnancy with the possibility of freezing embryos. Now look what's important. And this law is about to bring this down to the lowest possible extent. 5% of severe hyperstimulation is a global standard of 1%. 400% have more hyperstimulation than Europe and the world. But you know what hyperstimulation means? A struggle for the life of a woman from 4 to 8 months of hospitalization. That's what the profession says, you probably know that as well as I do. I think maybe a little bit more, let me be a gynecologist of course. Now look what we get with frozen mattresses. 9% of triplets, and the world standard is 4%. So 150 percent more triplets, but thank God we have triplets, but you know where the waist takes care? Of those three, the highest percentage of them were born at 33 weeks and with a thousand and 200 grams. And what we must do, gentlemen, I ask you, and in the end I will ask you to support these good amendments to this law, I would not deserve to be a minister in the Croatian Government to not put everything on the table after a year and say something seems to be wrong. Let's put everything on the table and talk about everything again. I am responsible here, I would not deserve to be a minister in the Croatian government if I were not prepared for it either. But gentlemen, these three men who were born at 33 weeks, unfortunately, do you know how much they have from neurological damage? They're 50%. But it passed this law. That brings, I will not now call the land where you are, the land where you are doing what you have said. Hyperstimulations come to treatment in Croatia. Children from 33 weeks are treated in Croatia 50% have neurological damage. And therefore, gentlemen, before the final word, please, if necessary, please support these amendments to the law, because they are good. They bring good, they bring change. And if you think he's a criminal to me, that in a week if I see in a technical sense that we can still make available to the couples the process of medical insemination I'll come back to Parliament next week. I could have been so little thinking so I won't come to the Parliament here to talk about medical insemination because you, forgive my expression, have crucified me. But I'm ready to come, because I think it's my duty. And so the waist just with, not you, this particular waist has changed. You know what they told me? I have to find out, don't get angry with the 25 doctors who are, Minister, thank you for making us. We didn't know this information. I was surprised, too. Well, you do it, and you don't know it. We didn't know this information. So this law, which is in the environment, leads to hyperstimulation, 8 months of treatment, a struggle for the life of a woman and 50% of neurological damage, and we have a 9% standard, means 150% more triples in such a procedure happens in Croatia and these children live here. These are children with special needs and women, I said, with hyperstimulation, so 400% more hyperstimulation is what we have here, but most of these hyperstimulations come from countries in an environment that is about to get 10 embryos just like that with a hyperstimulation process where and which we want to avoid. And therefore, before the final word, please this House, if I should say please this Parliament to accept and for what I've been saying, these amendments to the law to allow the extramarital communities to come to this process as easily as possible, to make it possible to make a donation. We will have problems no matter what donation law, all the countries in the European Union have it. But that is why, before the final word, I ask that we accept these amendments, and once again I say as the Croatian Society for Human Reproduction said that we will see in the 4th, 5th month what this law has passed and would not, and I will end it, would not deserve to be a minister in the Croatian Government if we did not put everything on the table afterwards. But let's not politicize about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39460	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39461	Well, Mr. Secretary has explained things in his own way that are not true. In fact, there are clear criteria for how the embryos are worth and what the embryos are worth, which is what you have in the European Society for Human Reproduction. You have exactly how, otherwise, no volunteerism, you have no criteria at this point which egg cells are good, which are not. The profession says that the fertilized egg cell for 40 days is not a living being, and that's what the whole profession tells you, and the confirmation is that you have spontaneous abortions in nature. And when we talk about multiple pregnancies and hyperstimulation and egg cells, you're going to have to have hyperstimulation because you're going to get 10 ovaries. And on the other hand, I don't know how you're going to get 10 egg cells. And on the other hand, with your law where you say that three embryos are fertilized back into the womb of a woman, we will have multiple pregnancies in Croatia the same and perhaps more than we have now. On the other hand, when we talk about why Croatia has many multiple pregnancies. Because our success in the method is small and smaller than in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39462	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39463	It's true and... The inaccuracy that the first choice is to freeze eggs in Poland, Ireland and Austria. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] It's just not true. There is immediately the first choice of freezing to blastocyst, and in Germany, Italy and Switzerland all the way to Zigota. So that's one inaccuracy. Second inaccuracy, as Col. Mrssic said. Here you are one religious knowledge, or religious dogma, that fertilized egg cells are human beings. That's what faith teaches. But our laws and our constitution say that man becomes an act of birth. And we grow up here and you fight so much for a few cells, and you really treat us adults here just like a set of cells.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39464	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39465	Well, Mr. Minister here said that we want to create from a biologist gods who will decide on fates, and I would only mention Mr. Minister here on the profession he often calls on, so here's the profession, Professor. Velimir Simunic wrote like this three months ago. I quote, "I'm quite certain that medically assisted fertilization is kept more carefully... and embryos of imperfect nature." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for the expertise and what she thinks of the IPO and about playing God.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39466	Thank you. And the correction of Madam Representative Vesna Škulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39467	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, on several occasions you mentioned children who are born with developmental difficulties, that 50% of children are born with neurological damage. I'm asking you on behalf of the convention that we signed not to speak in a negative context about children with developmental difficulties, because it's simply that. As soon as disability is mentioned. ... Let me finish. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So please don't speak negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39468	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39469	Please don't talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39470	Please, let the representative say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39471	So, please do not speak in a negative context since children with developmental difficulties if their parents want them, that they are wanted children and have the right to equal treatment as healthy children, and you do not have the right to argue with them, therefore this Law that he is not desirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39472	It can be looked at in a stenogram as said, and then clear it up if there are any misunderstandings. And now I apologize to Mr. Milorad Pupovac for waiting so long, but it's the SDSS Club's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39473	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to say four or five things on behalf of the SDSS Club. The first one I'd like to say is a world-famous nature. I believe and now I will speak according to the cash that people have spoken for centuries within two millenniums of our written history. So I believe our creator did not create ours as uncreative and uncreative beings. And that because he created us as creative beings, as beings who, by their knowledge, expand what was given to them, what made them different from the rest of us, by which we are significantly different from the other beings on this earth. By this we are like our maker, which is how we are if you want God's beings. The one who advocates, and throughout history there were more of those who advocated that we were not and that our creativity on a wheel should be stopped, whether because of faith or because of the prejudices and fears that we have as humans and as members of communities are characteristic. Science in a segment has come to the realization that medical aid to those who cannot achieve it themselves in the natural process of human reproduction. And it became a standard method. And we've been questioning this standard method today, for several months now, including this law. In this way, worldly view, no matter who feels like it today, in the religious sense of that word, we are the heirs of a centuries - old Christian idea, and do not lose sight of this worldly horizon when we are discussing this law. Because he's of interest to the public and of interest to us. The other thing I'd like to say is marriage. One of the seven sacraments, one of the seven sacred secrets or mysteries, to which we as responsible members of human societies and human communities hold and churches pay particular attention because they consider it not only because of the seventh sacrament but because of their understanding as an important cell of society as a nucleus of society. If that is why people who are unfortunately more and more in modern society, do we because we know more, whether because we are freer and more easily express ourselves, are more unconstructed about our limitations as humans and as regards our health and as regards our shortcomings or because of the way we live is that we lose something that we are given. We get married later, because we need to get a job, and it's harder and harder to get married, because it's harder and harder to get to the apartment and the house, and later we get married because of the freedoms and habits that happened during civilization. The qualities of our lives are such, and I'll also remind myself, unfortunately, of some kind of free to say disease or some kind of disorder. And that includes hundreds of thousands of people in our country alone today. So if that's how anyone has the right to get married, he says you can't get help so that you can enjoy all the elements of what marriage brings and parenting is one of the greatest happiness that marriage brings. One of the most responsible things that we as parents and as members of society can do and do. Who among us is he when we discuss the gods here, who among us is he who can put himself in the position of God and say not you infertile cannot or can only be under a certain framework and under a certain procedure and which was less standard and which is standard. Last time I spoke and now I'm only going to repeat it in one sentence. In a country with such a low birth rate, with such progressive growth of the elderly population, it is quite certain that insisting on this type of law is a direct attack on marriage and marriage. And limiting marriage and marriage to those who succeed under different circumstances, whether because of natural or social circumstances without difficulty, in today’s societies, this view is unfortunately considered to be outdated, retrograde, and unacceptable. The third thing is the profession that our minister here has a lot of energy and a lot of commitment and a dictionary of the profession and I would say the promises of the profession. I am not an expert in this area, here is Professor Hebrang who can be considered part of this profession, Professor Mrsić and other colleagues and colleagues who are from the medical profession, but one thing I will say, if someone were to decide now that in treating cancers the standard method of saying they should no longer be used but developmental and experimental methods would declare standard methods that would certainly not speak the language of the profession. Because it's not a language of the profession. Because every profession and every knowledge no matter how aware we are of our limitations as known beings, as beings relying on knowledge, knowledge that we currently have, but we rely on what we currently know until we reach and get to know more. But no one replaces standard knowledge as experimental as generally valid and generally accepted and standard, and no, and we are offered the method of fertilising egg cells as a solution to the standard method of freezing embryos. And it's a mistake, and it's not a profession. It's not a profession, it's a discount on a certain world-wide approach, and it's a compromise of the profession, and I'm sorry that the minister will probably be able to read the statements of a professional representative tomorrow, and even some who are here, some names he read here, in the best will and best faith, I'm sure, who will say that today's here being defended by the ministry isn't the attitude of the profession. Now let me read when it comes to the profession of two paragraphs from the representatives of the profession in a private letter that I am allowed to read. I find it difficult to imagine that the profession would support a law that does not allow the freezing of embryos representing life-saving, more efficient procedures and ultimately lower budget spending with better results. The ban on freezing covers has brought the profession back 20 years and brought about very difficult ethical problems. Second, direct interference in the work of embryologists requires fertilisation of 3 cells that can fertilize either one, or 3. The first embryologist must know how to decide according to the quality of the egg cells whether to fertilize 5 because only one or two days of development will come, otherwise the work could be done by a technician, not an embryologist. And that's why we're in school, and that's why the state is giving out so much money, and that's why the job of those who are teachers is an important, responsible job. Sometimes they can be bought for money because they think it's an easier way to improve their technical resources. It's sometimes a trick that people serve. It may not be the most honest, but if it's in the interest of the profession it's allowed. I'm afraid, Mr. Minister, that this has happened to you, and that in a few days you will see that the representatives of the profession, first of all, and after all, hold on to the profession. As for the support of the Brijuni rally, the support was in the direction of the amendments proposed here, which concern the legal aspect of the medically assisted fertilisation process. And for that, you and our government both got expensive support. But for what's not here, which should be for that you didn't get support. In the end, I'd like to say something about consistency as a virtue. In order for the legislator to ensure that people respect the laws he makes and which he publishes and declares then he must do everything, and some of our parliamentary seniors know it best. He has to do everything he can to keep the law from being broken. Otherwise, if it happens that we say so, so we're doing well now, so if it turns out that it's not good in six months, then we're going to change it, and already six months ago, we've seen something wrong, so now we're changing it, so that's something that compromises the legislator. I colleagues and colleagues, I, Mr. Minister and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, do not wish to participate in this kind of inconsistencies of legislation. I want this House to develop to the maximum possible virtue of consistency in law-making at this point. If we don't do it as legislators, we're taking the chance that people respect that law. And that is why I propose on behalf of the SDSS Club, I believe that my colleagues, our colleagues from HSLS, will do these 2 amendments to be accepted, and if I do not suggest that the vote be postponed, that further debate be held in the professional circles that need to be done and that this Assembly finally pass a law that will have a standard basis, standard procedure, but at the same time encourage it to go in the direction of research that currently cannot replace standard procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39474	Thank you. At 11:19, it's been 10 minutes. Mr. Secretary Darko Milinović. What? And we have one correction before that. Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39475	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me correct your one quote when you said that instead of standard methods you should not leave to development and experimental methods, you said. Well, that's the problem. In this case, that's not the case. So, in this law, that's not the case. All those countries that have banned the freezing of embryos, there's no other way down there than to freeze an egg cell, you understand. So it's certainly neither developmental nor experimental, as you said. Croatia is pursuing this standard. On the other hand, here, colleague Mrsic, is now gone, so in oncology when some methods, which we call standard methods, are ineffective, we resort to the administrative development and experimental as the method of choice. Therefore, it does not exclude each other. And then you said one more thing, I'd say she's dangerous. You said it was possible for someone under certain frameworks and procedures to possibly have a child. Well, it's to make it possible for him otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39476	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39477	Well, there's got to be some kind of method, some kind of framework and some rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39478	Thank you very much. Minister Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39479	Well, I didn't want to hear from my fellow Parliamentarian Pupovac, but I was amazed by your debate in the truth. He's telling you that it's going to be working and that now one of the signatories is going to change his mind. Now, that's gonna be good. Now that she's changed her mind when she sees it. That's not good. But if he changes his mind now, it's in. That's it. An attack on the marriage community. Who forbade marriage communities to use all the legal methods, to achieve what is most sacred, and that is children? I'm asking that. But you surprise me as a professor, I have to say it to your face. To say that the Minister of Health and Social Care and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are developing experimental methods. Experimental methods are allowed on animals, and humans are not. You manipulate this law roughly, you manipulate the facts. Is when the truth is on my side, then I'll tell everyone what I need to know and let it tell me. It hasn't been an experiment in Italy for four years. It's experimented on monkeys, chickens, eggs. You don't experiment on people. And now I reject such qualifications of this law as you said. Well, it's about changing your mind. Well, you said last time you'd back the law, so five minutes before that, you didn't support it. So what? You've changed your mind. Because I told the extramarital community that, you said that that was it, so you changed your mind. You have the right to do that. But you have no right to say that we are introducing an experimental method, fearing the Croatian public that this is an experiment. Humans are banned from experimentation. So if we're going to talk about who forbids the freezing of embryos, as a established method in the Republic of Croatia. Who's right? We can say this now. KB Split has no frozen, so it has not frozen the embryos so far. Does it mean if we let me freeze the plugs, that we allow KB Split to do the experiment? Mercury also doesn't have any frozen mattresses. KB Osijek, General Hospital of St. Ghost. Does that mean that if we accepted your amendment, what do you think now that I would come here and if I said so, here we accepted Mr. Pupovac's amendment that allows the experiment in Rijeka, Split, Mercury because they don't do the freezing of mattresses. Or to encourage them to do exactly what this law allows. So when it comes to the experiment of start or IVF in Croatia, start or IVF in Croatia. In the first five years only 20 children were born in the world when this procedure began. So is that supposed to mean that we should have cut it right away, didn't give good results, and the process of freezing egg cells would be between 20% and 30%. And the success of defrosted embryos, today in Croatia is 18%. So after the embryo defrosting when it goes into the medical fertilization process, it's only a percentage of the success rate of 18%. It's not 40, it's not 50, it's 18%. And that's why I was amazed by you as a professor to say that this is a law that allows experiment and experimental method. You've got about a million frozen egg cells in the world today. But there's still a problem with frozen embryos, 3 million in the world. I said before, 11 thousand in Croatia, 25 thousand in Slovenia. Well, some of your circles advocate an experiment. You know what? This 11 grand. I didn't say what you said when he was born. It wasn't me who told the man, it was the living thing. So that would be an experiment, if we even, some would ask that these 11 thousand frozen embryos be used as experimental methods as experiments for something and for something. And that's why I'm indignantly rejecting your claims that this law has allowed any kind of experiment. In both Italy and Ireland, and Poland, and Germany, and Switzerland, and thank God and Croatia already 3.4 days ago, I don't know exactly how much I won't say, egg cells. It's been done in Petrovo for five years, but they didn't develop that method, did they not have the law? And so these countries that I've listed in Italy, Ireland, Poland, Germany, Switzerland have been doing this for years, so is that an experiment? And that's why I came out here. I'm indignantly rejecting what you said. It is a misinformation and the Croatian public must know. This isn't an experiment. The experiment is allowed on cats, monkeys, dogs, eggs, but not on humans. And that's why this isn't an experiment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39480	The club of representatives of HSLS, SDA, Mr. Representative Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39481	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. I will try in a calmer tone with several findings to say the position of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and SDA regarding amendments and additions to the Law on Medical Insemination. So, the first finding we have to say, which we must admit is that before the Law on Medical Insemination was passed in July of this year in Croatia, the medical fertilisation was legally regulated by the Law on Health Measures for the free birth of children from '78. A year. Why did I say that? I said this because for 30 years there was neither courage nor determination to touch this matter, and therefore it really should be recognised by the Ministry of Health and Minister Milinovic at that courage, at that determination to regulate this matter legally and did rightly when he put it unequivocally as a priority in the affairs of the Ministry of Health. It's a fact, it's a finding here that needs to be made public and admitted. What's our goal? The goal here is clear, ensuring the right to offspring, ensuring as many Croatian citizens as possible the right to become parents. Now, in achieving that goal, there are really many religious, ethical, philosophical issues. And the views of possible solutions are also different in this mosaic issues, and that is why in the phase of the parliamentary debate the best solutions should be sought in the interest of an increasing number of children born to an assisted fertilisation. We must also acknowledge here the next finding and fact, which is that the Ministry of Health has made a step forward and respected proposals and coalition partners and opposition by referring to the equalisation of the right to the medical fertilisation of the marriage and the extramarital community and thus by proving the status of the extramarital community very quickly and simply speaking to the public notary is a good solution and an acceptable solution for all MPs. But that's less important, it's more important that it's a good and fast solution for users of medical fertilisation procedures. It should also be said that the good solution now proposed by the Ministry of Health or the Government is that a child born after medical insemination, and after his adulthood has the right to see the register of data on conception and all data on the biological origin of the donor, as I think we will all agree that a good solution that regulates that a donor of the sex cell can consent in written form that a child born to a medical fertilisation after his adulthood has the right to insight into the register of the national register on the identity of the donor or donor. So, this is what was put in the previous debate as observations, as proposals, and this is a step forward and represents the will to accept the proposals and other participants of this debate and those who think differently in this House from the proposings and other interested and highly sensitive citizens of individuals or associations of society. For such preparedness, it is not necessary to libite, it should be accepted despite a certain time-out and should be recognised to the Ministry of Health that these solutions are good and should be commended if they are to be prepared and willing. However, there is something that, according to the assessment of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and the SDA, is not good, and what is also here in the Assembly to say. Therefore, in the proposed solution, according to our assessment, it was also necessary to amend the provision concerning the restriction of fertilisation, only three egg cells in one percent and the ban on freezing embryos. Because these provisions are not changed, public opinion and attitude continue to prevail, so no matter what the arguments of these or those, so in public, I am talking about public perception, the opinion and attitude that could be expressed like this prevails. Due to the ban on freezing of embryos and the restrictions on fertilisation on three egg cells, the path to the desired child for infertile couples will be twice as expensive and minimum twice as long. Another finding that is present in the public, allowing the freezing of embryos allows women to avoid repeat hormonal treatments and painful extraction of egg cells and avoid multiple pregnancies that are dangerous for both women and children. These issues and the problem cannot be avoided even in today's debate on amendments and additions to the law simply because it is a vital issue, a professional issue which, at the discretion of many, remains unresolved. Now when we talk about the profession, when we talk about prominent experts in the field of human reproduction, it must also be on the side of the club of representatives in the name I speak plainly say and remind that this same profession in June 2009 has concluded, said and signed the following: the success of medical fertilisation in Croatia today is 28%, and with the application of the new law will fall to 18% or less. At the same time, significant increases in extra-body fertilisation prices will occur. So that was said in June this year. Today, in September of this year, in three months, there is a co-opernica facility and the same profession is unreservedly supported by the Ministry of Health, Minister Milinovic, the government in this proposal. In fact, there was a fact that we shouldn't run away from, that the main opponents are so-called. Milinovic's law in just a few weeks became his biggest advocates. Picking words for description and making the name of such behaviour and changing attitudes, or the claim of the profession, is the least said by those statements extremely unusual and yet ultimately unbeliefable. Therefore, I can conclude on behalf of the HSLS and the U.S. club that, without a change in this important expert but also a world-class attitude, which was actually spoken of by the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac, with regard to allowing the freezing of embryos, the club of representatives of HSLS and the U.S.A. will not support these amendments and additions to the Law on Medical Insemination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39482	Thank you. HNS MPs' club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39483	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. In two months, we discuss the law that regulates the same area now in a different way than 22.7. So it's one of those laws that changes more or less monthly. The only thing I can say about it on behalf of the HNS club is that it's probably better to change when something's wrong than to insist on the bad. But perhaps the government should go one step further, and it is not to offer bad laws and force their adoption in this Parliament. I'll look back on the argument that is often used in today's debate. The minister, in a way, expressed his frustration with public reactions on the last draft of the law, has mentioned it many times, and this is an argument of the opinion of the profession. A very dangerous and unpleasant thing happened to us for every society, which is to devalue the profession for who knows what reasons and to put it in a position to give a contradictory opinion within two months. This in itself is a harmful situation. First because it destroys the authority of certain segments of society that should be autonomous, which destroys the authority of the profession if it speaks differently within two months. So we put ourselves in a position and the profession to give us various arguments in two months about the same thing and to say yes professional but very different opinions. The only conclusion that I am absolutely prepared for in front of this Parliament and in front of the Croatian public is to bear the responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, that a certain pressure has been put on the profession, so that under this pressure it has been stimulating or negatively changed in two months' time. Because nothing else has changed in those two months. But the waist wasn't the only one who changed her mind in those two months. Both the government and Minister Milinovic changed their mind in those two months. With the same gleam and same certainty and same quote of the profession, with the same quote of the law, Minister Milinovic defended both these two articles and the provisions of these two articles, which are being amended by this new bill here two months ago. Therefore, the article that put people in extramarital communities in an unequal position compared to those in marriage communities as regards assisted insemination and the article that spoke about the obligation to inform a child born with that procedure or with the help of that procedure after the age of 18, the obligation to inform such child about the donor of genetic material. That changed in Minister Milinovic's opinion. HNS proposed 6 amendments on the first proposal of this law two months ago. Two were related to these two articles. Therefore, the equalisation of extramarital and marriage communities as regards the right to medically assisted insemination. True, we also felt today that single mothers should have equal rights because they have equal rights to raise children and have children, then they can have equal rights here. It is not respected, but at least the first part of that amendment is respected. Our second amendment concerns the obligation to inform. That's also appreciated. The third concerned the freezing of fertilized egg cells. This was not adopted on the obligation of a second opinion where the state is appointed as a tutor to adult citizens. It wasn't adopted. To help couples where both partners are infertile, it's not adopted. And to the possibility of a doctor objecting to his conscience, in other words, to refuse to help people who turn to them allegedly because of their conscience. In other words, the possibility of a doctor refusing treatment. And today, we believe that these four amendments that have not been adopted will also come to the agenda, that they will gradually see that in these amendments and in these cases we in the HNS were right and that it is necessary to include these amendments also in the law. It's just... it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... However, there is one point where this law stands or falls, which is absolutely crucial and which is some kind of a civilization minimum. It represents a civilizational minimum because it sees whether the fundamental human rights of a woman are being taken care of, that she is not exposed to additional harassment, that she is not exposed to repeated hormonal stimulation, that she is not exposed to a painful procedure over and over again just because she needs medical attention in order to have a child. And we at the HNS club don't quite understand why this fact isn't seen by the government so clearly? Is it because it's in the front row about women's rights, and then it doesn't matter that much, or it's not universal, or it's for some other reason. At this point, it just seems incomprehensible. The minister here said that these procedures will use anesthesia. Minister, you know better than I do that anesthesia isn't used, that surgery is delayed because there's no anesthesiologist, and not that this is used as an argument, so now you're going to get anesthesia, it doesn't matter three, four, five times, so it'll be easier for you to get your egg cells out. It's really not one argument that's convincing in a situation like this. So simple logic tells when you go already through complicated hormonal stimulation, change of behavior to everything you need, logic tells egg cells that are extracted to fertilize, freeze and give those couples and that woman a chance, the best possible chance to get a child. Even the medical profession in these conditions, I don't see anyone from the medical profession who wouldn't say at least a minimum, and that's the government's gentlemen, let the adult woman who submits to this procedure choose, let her choose, let her law to choose, in accordance with her beliefs, her worldview, her attitude, any other, by any other standard, whether she wants to remove more egg cells to fertilize and freeze or not. Don't put the state in a position to think instead of people, to think instead of citizens about their most intimate decisions. To make decisions for citizens that every man, every person, has the right to make for himself. Do not put the state in a position to decide how many young women will remove the egg cells and whether to fertilize them or not, so it will have to or will not have to repeat the procedure. Allow me, the law is not there. The state is not here to make that decision instead of a person. The state is there to allow every person to decide within the framework of the law on their position, to make the best decision for themselves, in accordance with their opinion. Let your wife have at least that much. For these very reasons, we in the HNS together with the SDP club have proposed an amendment that would allow this to happen. Of course, the Rules of Procedure sometimes go restrictively, we were able to make amendments to only those articles that change with this new proposal. So we suggested, HNS and SDP, that it be allowed to extract more eggs and fertilize and freeze. It doesn't oblige anyone to do that, it doesn't oblige anyone to say that it's just that and nothing else. It just gives every woman a chance to decide for herself whether she wants it or not. Thus, by accepting the amendment, the government would give the right and opportunity, a minimum for any person to decide for themselves, rather than for the government and Minister Milinovic to decide for everything. By accepting that amendment, the government will not do it, nor will we make this law the best possible. We believe it is still to be repaired, but by accepting that amendment it will satisfy the minimum that the law respects the dignity of a woman, the dignity of a citizen, of a citizen to decide his fate in this regard. Without that minimum, this law remains unacceptable, remains by our deep belief below the civilization level, which we should also be under respect for the autonomy of a person. And if that amendment is not accepted, the HNS Club cannot support this law because it respects the fundamental rights of every person, so to speak, in particular, the fundamental rights of every adult woman is not respected and met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39484	Thank you. Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39485	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I owe a few explanations, maybe it'll bring a little more light to today's debate. It's always said that the profession was under duress, that the waist is this, that the waist is difficult to change an opinion or something, although I may personally disagree about it, but there is something else. What one expert might say is that it can look at some novelties, enough is said by the American Society for Clinical Oncology in 2008, so it's quite fresh that it's absolutely responsible for speaking in this House of Commons. They listed 96% of the preserved egg cells, which is never obtained in the freezing of embryos. That's number one. Number two. It's even more recent, and that's the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, so it's not said that this was for another purpose, since 12 May 2009, so it's clear that survival... It led to 57%, so it's the persecutors of the war, so it means pregnancy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that these are new data, it is clear that it is daily coming out with new data, so we also have a European association that monitors, the European Association for Human Reproduction and Embryology, which monitors all European countries and how procedures are implemented, has also dedicated a special chapter in this section. It has left states immediately to say that they are solving as they should, or in order to want to, but it is all said that today unnecessary hyperstimulation is wanted so that the story should be done more than the number of ovaries, it should not be given more numbers, it goes according to the team's instructions on moderate stimulation of women, and the cells absolutely that are obtained can be stored, because I'm not talking about freezing, we're talking about vitriification, stored ova when taken for use in the second or third cycle of attempts, means when taken for use, 96% of them are capable, which would mean if 10 of them were stored from this area, 9 it will certainly be those who are able to fertilize and that there is a burden, and that is the method that the whole world in all the works of this year and last year will be praised as a method that will finally ethical and all other discussions will be removed from this area and really help families in the best way that they do not want to be able to continue. This country allows, this is not clear and loud embryofreezing from the site everyone can go out on the Internet, everyone can show a nice writing on the Internet in which countries are forbidden to freeze their embryos, in which countries are not regulated and immediately give notice due to irregularities, the profession has not done so, so Poland, Slovakia, Germany, Switzerland. I mean, it's a data that citizens can very easily turn on the computer and look at, so you don't have to keep talking about providing false data, like all this data that says and says that the profession can be made clear and loud. The profession as such, we're always lawyers of the profession. We keep saying waist said like this, waist said like that. We have several letters, but we had the Round Table, it was open, they were representatives of the Media on the Round Table, that was the international part, where on that Round Table we were discussing these provisions for such a reason I believe that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Insemination in which part we give an improvement should be accepted and allowed to the citizens and the profession in their section to come to what we have prepared this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39486	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39487	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Secretary of State has turned the matter back on and shows only one piece of the story, and when we talk about where it can be and where it can't be frozen, then look. It's Europe, look at America, then you'll see, look at the whole world, it's not just Europe, it's the whole world, if we're talking about the freezing of embryos and freezing of egg cells, don't refer to what's possible, but tell us what's a form of medicine and what's established. Look at the European Association of Embryologists, the American Association of Embryologists, look at the world you don't have to wave paper, which is the standard method of treating infertility in the world. You will all be told the standard method is freezing the embryos, if you did not get a consensus in the profession, because the waist is afraid for various reasons you could make a round table here in the Assembly with experts from Europe and America would give some funds but would get a measurable opinion which is the method of choice in treating infertility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39488	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39489	Mr. Secretary of State says this bill solves ethical problems as well. He does not solve them, but deepens them. When it comes to the body of a woman who is absolutely beyond the reach of the government's ethical approach to women. However, this proposal, or amendment, goes at the heart of the protection of women’s health by forcing her to undergo excessive physical and psychologically dangerous additional procedures that are also very painful. In essence, this amendment represents an institutional violence against women, and it is unfortunate that these problems are referred to by men when it comes to the body of a woman.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39490	An individual debate. Let's keep the debate at this nice level. The individual debate of Mrs. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39491	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's after a lot of words about these amendments and additions to the Law on Medical Insemination, I'll say a few words. First of all, I would like to say that the adoption of the Law on Medical Insemination, which this Croatian Parliament adopted in July, was necessary and that its adoption was welcomed by all those who were fully and objectively informed about its decisions and its provisions, primarily by the professional public, both medically and legally. In fact, it is about introducing legislation into an area that is extremely sensitive both ethical, moral, legal and medical. In this specific medical area where processes of medical art or aid were carried out for almost 30 years as they were then called fertilisation, this Law finally introduced order, licensing, control, which was firstly welcomed by the medical profession. We were recently witnesses, although from today's perspective legally regulated this matter I cannot say with certainty whether illegal, because there was no law in that sense, which proved in recent court proceedings, but certainly immoral and unethical manipulation of public cells, without the knowledge of the women they were taking. But just as alarming is the information we've heard recently, that there's no sign today, that there's no telling where 100-thousand embryos that are, by the understanding of many others, that I don't say most, living beings, so so so is Roman law and our right to uphold the right to... to be born. And today we've heard a new piece of information that 11,000 frozen mattresses, waiting, I'm afraid I have to say this is waiting for a foster home with my parents or throwing it in the trash, I guess. So, certainly this matter should have been regulated, and the bill that we are talking about today and we are discussing should not be seen as an amendment to the Law on Medical Insemination of July of this year, because if it were so, we would rightly be objecting to the inconsistency of both the Minister and this House of Higher Education, but this is not about amendments, it is actually about improving certain provisions of the Serbian law. In fact, these amendments and additions are not deviated in any of the concepts of the law passed, but in these several articles of the proposed Law on Amendments are in fact developed by some institutes, and primarily in order to facilitate the implementation of the basic purpose of this law, which is to facilitate the child's conception in a medically assisted process of fertilisation of those couples who unfortunately could not achieve this by natural means. So the first question is regulation, which is the question of the child's right to learn information about its origin. In fact, the current law is not about any established obligation to information, to the state authority on information, it is about the right of a child who can consume it, but does not have to consume it. Therefore, the applicable law has become, the principle of child rights has been governed, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, on the knowledge of its identity, biological and social, and has allowed the child conceived by a donated sex cell to have the right, after age, to learn information about its biological origin and the identity of donors, or donors. However, respecting the medical profession's arguments, and above all, that there will be a lack of donated cells if there is a obligation to disclose the identity of donors, or donors, which is quite understandable from the donor's point of view, and parallelly comparing solutions in European and world legislation, this is a provision for proposed changes to be corrected in a way that the child, after age, is guaranteed knowledge of all the data on his biological origin, e.g. genetic characteristics, racial identity, etc., other than the identity of the donor, i.e. the donor. An exceptional child may also know the identity of the donor if the donor explicitly consents to this and does not withdraw his consent until the moment of out-of-body fertilisation. I believe that this is a good solution, on the trail of a solution in the legislation of the European Union countries, as well as a compromise between guaranteeing the right of the child to know its origin and ensuring that the donors of the sex cells are provided. But I must say that according to my knowledge, how the debate on world scales goes in terms of the rights of the child, that it is very fast, probably in this sense it will also need European countries, and also Croatia to change legislation in a way that allows the child to have full right to know his identity, but since in that sense there is still a lot of debate to be opened at the Institute of adoption and today in the possibility of giving birth to the child without the mother revealing the identity of the father, etc., there will be a lot more debate. The second amendment, or better to make it easier, refers to a simplified procedure for recognising the status of the extramarital community within the meaning of this law. So it is sufficient that a public notary partner's statement is certified that they live in an extramarital community. As we know, as family law, marriage rights are also intended to extend to an extramarital community which defines as a community of the life of an unmarried woman and an unmarried man who is not in another extramarital community, which lasts 3 years or shorter if a common child is born, but that the status of that extramarital community is determined in an extramarital procedure, an extramarital procedure. Therefore, taking into account that the medical fertilisation procedure can only be accessed after 2 years of failure to conceive by natural means, this argument is also accepted in order to spend further time in this way, which, given the aspect of the age of women and medical reasons, is unwarranted. It is necessary for the purpose of enabling and assisting in the creation of offspring to couples who cannot do so naturally in such situations that, within the meaning of this law, the extramarital community can be established in a easier and simpler way, but in this case, additional legal issues are raised which should be resolved in the case of the birth of such a child, and unless the extramarital community is established in the sense of family law, therefore, for all those other rights later maintaining the establishment of paternity and motherhood, etc. For all these reasons, I support the adoption of amendments, the proposal for amendments and the addition of laws to the law of July this year and to ensure that the medical fertilisation procedures are regulated legally with the clear relations of donors, contractors and users of medically assisted fertilisation. To be available, since this law has increased the number of paid attempts to conceive and is suitable for the latest medical and technological achievements that allow the freezing of sex cells and their successful fertilisation of the occasion of the implantation decision, which also eliminates all moral, ethical, religious, philosophical and legal doubts. And I would therefore not agree to insist on the established methods that have been established for 30 years because the waist goes forward and can certainly introduce some new and technologically more advanced solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39492	Thank you. One correction and one replica. Correction, Ms. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39493	Thank you very much. Here's Mrs. Lovrin said a few incorrect allegations, I'll say one, two. So, you said the law had experienced commendation, Malta not enthusiasm to the public. That's simply not true, because to be exact today we wouldn't have this agenda point. It is also called and it is true that these are amendments and additions to the law, not just small improvements or as you have already said. So the pressure of the public all summer was on this bill and that's why we're sitting here today. Unfortunately, though, these changes that are proposed today are not the hope that couples will be able to have children. And I hope that what the minister mentioned after a year will sit down and look at the negative consequences that the law has caused, so there may still be some changes and additions, perhaps only then will it give the couples hope. But I personally believe that the minister does not have the right as any doctor to make a mistake, because it is then unconscious treatment or unconscious management of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39494	Ms. Representative Ingrid Anitcevic-Marinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39495	You rightly question the regulation of the legal status of children born in this way. So please tell me, how will the legal status of a child born to a stolen female egg cell be resolved when you changed the Family Law at the beginning of 2004 and changed the definition and claimed that the mother was the only one who gave birth to a child? How are you going to allow a woman who was taken from an egg cell without her knowledge, so stolen, and how did another woman give birth to that child? Please explain the situation to us now?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39496	Replication response, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39497	Thank you very much. My colleagues Antičević-Marinović will explain it very simply. So, in 2003, there was a family law that said that a mother was considered a woman who had a child. 2004. Family law found the mother of a child to be a woman who gave birth to a child. It was then possible to challenge motherhood under the 2003 law only in the event of a child’s mother’s dispute. So, in case of wrong entry, child replacement, etc. The 2007 Family Law novel finally regulates the question of how to challenge motherhood in case of medical insemination if it happened without knowledge of any woman whose egg cell, any woman who gave birth to a child. Thus, Article 86(2) states: "A woman who gave birth to a child, who was conceived by another woman’s ovary, has the right to challenge motherhood if fertilisation has occurred with medical aid without her certified consent." Article 3 "The woman whose ovary is conceived, without her certified consent, has the right to challenge the motherhood of the woman who gave birth to him, if she simultaneously asks to establish her motherhood." Here, that's how I'm gonna solve this problem. So finally, in 2007, a law was passed that allowed motherhood to be challenged in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39498	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39499	Dear colleagues and colleagues. By listening to the minister today in explaining why this law is changing and supplementing, as two or maybe three arguments I would single out the following. The extramarital community and the harmonisation of the provisions of this law with those which already regulate and amend the parts in which the donor's anonymity is mentioned either egg or semen cells. The amendment should not have been made by amending and supplementing the law, because during the debate and the vote on the law here in Parliament, it was warned that the provisions incorporated into the law were not good and amendments were offered. However, the representatives of the health ministry did not trust the parliamentary deputies that the solution was not good, so long as I quote the minister today "until Minister Šimonovic, Minister Milinovic, has proved that the process of proving the extramarital community in court cannot be completed in two hours, but two, three or four months". So it's believed to be more ministers than MPs. If we had more trust and listen more to us, there would probably be fewer changes and additions to the law. About the donor's anonymity, at that point he put his voice down, so I didn't hear him, but he said how many donors were there? So he showed zero. Why? How many voluntary blood donors in Croatia would it be, if they hadn't been campaigning for decades and the citizens weren't invited to give blood? How many organ donors would be willing and donor cards if they hadn't been campaigning intensively for the last 10 years? How many Croatian citizens would be in the bone marrow donor register, if we hadn't, especially back in the year, had large media campaigns? So now I'm asking, it's just enough to realize that there's nothing further. And when it comes to the profession and the worldview. How many years has it been since the profession proved and started the implantation of organs and tissues, until different religious communities changed their attitude toward this and the worldview? 30, 40 in some, and some today they're opposed to tissue and organ implantation. Time does its part, even when it comes to worlds, when it comes to life and health. Minister Milinovic said the truth is about 50 women went abroad to get help for fertilisation. But he says they've gone before. Why? Why do women from Croatia have to go abroad today, why did they have to go abroad yesterday and sue for help? It's not answered that question. There must have been some reason, but there is today, and I'm afraid there will be tomorrow. It's just about the light. The law and the amendments and the proposals that have been made and made are not an order that someone has to do something about the worldview because of what the law says. Alternatives offered are choice options. So those who are opposed to the worldview will not benefit from what is contrary, but the law will make it possible for those whose worldview does not forbid it and does not allow it to benefit. It's either the variant of freezing egg cells or the variant of freezing mattresses. We give choices to people, women, without orders. And you forbid, practically and prevent one of these possibilities. We're here to pass world laws. If the exact information the minister said is 20 thousand women in Croatia or couples are infertile, we are actually deciding on what, whether we will allow our decision to allow 20 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia to use all medical means available to help them conceive, or to have a child. Do we have the right to take away the right to use what medicine offers and what is legal? 700 to 800 children born medically assisted insemination, says the minister only 30 unfreezed embryos. So is that an argument just 30? It's just a state of mind, a fact. Why was it 30 he didn't go to elaborate. Why didn't he say just 700 to 800 a year? He didn't elaborate on why only 700 to 800 if 20 thousand couples were infertile. If you do not accept the proposal to equally allow a woman or a couple to freeze an egg cell or a embryo, you will force the Croatian Parliament to impose a ban, ban the use of medical and professionally proven methods of helping create a new life. We deprive them of the right to fertilize more than three embryos, to freeze the embryo and what interests me in particular whether it is correct, Mr. Secretary of State, yet another statement from the media, so that we do not have to deny it next week, is it true that the regulation recently published has created such criteria that only one clinic in Croatia meets the conditions of implementing the method of medically assisted insemination under this law? It's in today's paper. Just one clinic. Is that true? The minister didn't answer. But if that's true, then that means that we've introduced and disabled all partners. Hebrang, a colleague, said he would, and the minister later insisted on doing an analysis after six months and put everything on the table. You see, that analysis would be eagerly expected, and it would only be an argument if the analysis could give you a comparison of two methods, two different data: how many women decided on the method of freezing egg cells, and how many women chose to freeze embryos. What is the success and result in the method of one, which in the other? How many fewer complications were there in that pregnancy in one, how many in the other method? And only by comparing the results and data of two different methods could it come to this and admit to you that you were right or recognized by those who claim that you should also allow the freezing of embryos and that you should allow fertilisation of more than three egg cells. Without comparison, without being able to compare these two things after six months, you'll only come up with data on the one who'll prove that you were right, because the others won't be. It is therefore no analysis whatsoever, it will not be any result of proving your correct decision, but you will be able to subscribe these data to the claim that there may be any progress in the number of procedures of medically assisted fertilisation, but also not that your proposal that prohibits the freezing of embryos, which prohibits fertilisation of more than three egg cells is better than the alternative offered all the time. That's why I'm not looking forward to this analysis with great impatience, nor do I hope it'll do any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39500	Thank you. Mrs. Agent Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, we are discussing one law where we will find it difficult to reach consensus on the one hand and on the other, of course. Why? Because different and moral, ethical, and religious, legal, sociological issues are being opened, as well as medical questions. We don't have the same compliance at the end of that law in the whole world. However, I believe that we really aim to regulate the achievement of conception according to the demands of modern medical science that progresses almost every day to incredible achievements, so it was either three months or three years. It used to be unthinkable that we didn't have to implant a embryo that we found genetically that it was a cystic kind of fibrosis, and that's how we save that family from such a serious disease. However, what we are tasked with is preserving the health of a woman, preserving the health of a child, and allowing that woman to become a mother. And I really liked my colleague Jerko Roshin, who like this, listening to our discussions said, we are not discussing how to become a mother, but we often use this law for political purposes. However, we must allow this woman to pass more painlessly and to extract the egg cells and the whole process ahead of her, from that hyperstimulation that we are constantly talking about, which has many consequences that are not simple. And every woman who goes to artificial insemination when she talks about it talks with tears in her eyes. To allow her, except for painlessness, to get all protocols through as quickly as possible, not to wait long and to reduce those waiting lists, to come as soon as possible. However, in addition, we are a country of famous experts, no matter how many people here today speak against them as they change their views. We can't ignore these, I'm a medical profession, and especially when I hear fellow experts neglecting the profession in this section. Because it's not just about one expert, so it's about a series of experts who were at this famous gathering at Brijuni, so I'm not only talking about Šimunić, but also Radakovic, human reproduction subspecies, human reproduction specialists Mr. Vrčić, Ciglar, human reproduction subspecies professor... Krunoslav Kuna, a sub-specialist from the human reproduction Baumann sub-specialist from the human reproduction Canić, a head of activity at the Merkur Clinical Hospital, Višnja Latin, our famous professor of Poliklinika “Vili”. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dr. Drazen, professor of human reproduction of gynological endocrinology. Professor Dr. Veljko Vlasijević and a number of others from other centres and other hospitals dealing with this. In the past, unfortunately, we witnessed the events of an unregulated area of artificial insemination, unethical procedures, but everything really fell into oblivion, because the desire for that child was stronger than anything else. It has proved necessary to introduce order in procedures, in licensing, in the control of medical insemination, and we haven't had that in 30 years. That we didn't have the courage, that we didn't dare. We can't talk about who's guilty right now, but it's been 30 years and we haven't regulated it. I support the adoption of this law and now I believe it is acceptable to believe that this is not the last amendment and addition of this law in view of everything that is provided in medicine, to all the opportunities that are provided, and even to the changing of our views, learning these achievements. The specific weight of these changes gives a profession that is fully prepared for its optimal application by developing guidelines for its optimal application with the development of strategies for rapid progress and reaffirmation of that part of reproductive medicine. In the past few months, we have been exposed to the press, pictures of children on the front page, and the following days of pictures of representatives who don't bother me at all, but I've been deeply affected by pictures of these beautiful babies on the front page and no one has responded either. I believe that now we will avoid statements as I quote it is a multiple chance for a child to get fertilized by frozen cells than embryos, so it will drive couples abroad where there is no freezing ban. The Croatian Society for Human Reproduction rejects all wrong and scientifically unfounded claims that the new law in the Republic of Croatia will make the procedures for medical insemination significantly more unsuccessful than before. It also claims and convinces the public, especially infertile couples that there has never been, and neither is there now the need for treatment abroad. In the debates, we forget to mention that there is a possibility of freezing mattresses. I'm saying there's a possibility of this law to freeze the plugs when it's medically indicated. So we can't just speak lightly of the gentleman going out on a plot like some sort of thing, or of a child as some ordinary thing that many imagine. Only 4 to 5% of children in the Republic of Croatia were from frozen embryos, and 96% in the past were from fresh embryos and transfers. Of 800 children, 30 were born of defrosted embryos. And speaking of frozen mattresses, I can't say and wonder for these 11,000 frozen mattresses in the fridge. And when we talk about bone marrow donations, about organ donations, then I wonder who owns those embryos. Who owns it and does the owner know that it has existed for at least five years, and whether both legal and moral, ethical and other issues are being opened there. What kind of owners are they? Are they aware that it's a living thing like a colleague says someone needs to adopt it? How long do you need to keep him safe? Where are we going with him? When will it be over? Well, that's a lifetime. Who owns it, and you know who owns it when a divorce takes place. Then who owns the plot? Who will be the owner of this plot? This law amends data on the identity of the donor of the semen cell, i.e. the donor of an egg cell, provided that they give consent in writing at the latest until the entry into the body of the woman or until the time of the out-of-body fertilisation procedure. Until they have the right and withdraw in writing the previous days of consent. And here I'm asking, is the child a thing and are we thinking about that child? In this case, I think, personally, I think that we only discuss donors without thinking about the child, that we forgot the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and I think that child has the right to know who the donor is, regardless of those indications when it comes to transplants, etc. And in an unequal position with a child who's been adopted. A child adopted under the law for up to 7 years must know who his biological father is. What about this kid? From all of this, obviously we need a Law on Medical Insemination. This one for now is acceptable and I really believe in all possible achievements, given our different attitudes, it will change in the future. But there are a number more questions why they'll change. Because we will have an increasing number of infertile marriages, infertile on one side and the other. Because the age limit and marriages, and if you want to and in the extramarital community, move significantly, so the average age of the first marriage in 2007 is 26.7 years and for a man, 29.7 years. The average age of the mother at first birth is 26.9 years and the male is 28.7 years old, and the biological clock says our people are ticking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39502	Thank you. One correction and two replicas. First correction by Mr Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39503	Dear Mr. Vice President, the colleague has made one claim that this law will put children born to donor sperm in an unfavourable position towards those children who have been adopted. However, what has to be said is that the vast majority of adopted children do not know who the parent is, and they do not know who the father is. Therefore, it is not incorrect. It's incorrect that she'll be in an unfavourable position. He'll be in the same position as adopted children, because it's a fact and it's known that in adopted children, a lot of cases don't know who the father is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39504	Replica one, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Caparin, you said well, and so it should be that a woman should be given the medical fertilization procedure and taking egg cells as painlessly as possible. Well, you're a doctor, you can answer that because there's been a very dramatic statement here about reaching a civilization level, about how it's as if the adoption of this law has introduced a torture ground for women when they're taking their egg cells, and they're mocked by the minister's statement that it's going to be done under anesthesia. So me, maybe you could tell us, is it something more painful to take an egg cell if it fertilizes after that, and then freeze the embryo or take an egg cell if it freezes the excess of those fertilized egg cells? Is the difference of pain in these procedures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39506	Replicate response, Madame Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39507	I'm not a gynecologist, and I'm really not going to interfere with that profession. But what I do know is that every woman needs to be helped to get as much pain as possible. She really needs help, and that, and this is what I think this profession and on these Brijuni were talking about, and she warned me about it, and that's what I stand for. And by the way, I'm gonna tell my colleague, Mr. Lobster, who says they don't know the adopted children who the father is, or who the mother is. That's what my colleague Mric writes in the papers, and those kids can find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39508	Second replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to ask you if I can just take these all for a minute, two of them. Comrade Caparin, I agree with you when you said there would be no deal today, but it doesn't agree with you, which is why there will be no deal. You said because of religious, ethical, socio-economic and other differences in approach to resolving this issue. Comrade Caparin, in 2009 these reasons should be... Human rights, i.e. the rights of patients, should be restricted. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] I will remind you, you and I are doctors, one 2400-year-old document, one sentence says, "I will determine my regulations by my means and knowledge to the benefit of the patients." Hypocrates 2400 years ago. Today, we question whether or not to use the ultimate possibilities of biomedical science and professions to help those who need help with fertilisation. I'm begging you, I can't accept that kind of thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39510	Replicate response, Madame Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39511	Thank you very much. I wasn't talking about, in a way, not giving these people an equal opportunity. But no one's asking these women. They too have different and moral, ethical, religious, and other issues. We don't even ask them that. But we listen, in the end, because we are chosen by these people, by those women who are in this House. Because we're the majority we represent. Because we are the ones who are chosen in front of these people and who know what they're saying. So I know what my women in my environment, who are, who have, cure infertility, who seek artificial insemination, what they're talking about. And I represent that attitude. You can represent a second position, why not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39512	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try to be, as my colleague Mario Zubovic suggested, I will try to be clear, not loud. Thanks for that warning. I'd like to begin this presentation, if that's what I can say with my colleague Doric's answer, even though he didn't give me this replica, but I think it's very important. So with what you've now replicated to my colleague Caparin, when you said why not use all known methods etc. Among other things, because in the Convention, therefore, the International Convention clearly states that the welfare of society cannot stand before the well-being of individuals. So the question is the well-being of an individual, which means not always every method that is allowed, is not always for the well-being of the individual for which it would be used. You can do well, I apologize, but you can get an clarified answer to that question from those who are of me for it professionally. It's another thing. We break here about one thing, and everything else is another, and it's freezing or not freezing. So we can simplify everything and bring it down to that question. So one side advocates the freezing of the traps, the other side does not advocate. So let's accept it, shall we, if we accept the freeze of the mattresses then it would be almost all solved. So either most of the problem would be solved. I have to ask myself here all of us and myself what it is that makes us, what makes people hate life? What's basically that? Here's the real question I don't have an answer for. What is it that makes us hate life? And that's what we all agree is that the embryo is life. What makes us? So, you're going to say, someone is going to say the well-being of a woman who doesn't have a child and wants to have one. Right? On the other hand, the same side has never stood up for the question of life as such, and it does not take up, and then declares it a human right. And that's the question of abortion. If we're for life, why don't we talk about it? How can we kill life and fight for life? So, I'm sorry. Excuse me, then, allow me, colleague Pusic, believe me, I have listened to you very carefully. ... And you're not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So on the other hand, we know why so many marriages are infertile. We know what lies basically, growing infertility of marriages. Among other things, disrespect for some, let's call whatever law we want, that's what I've talked about here a few times, and now I'm going to do it again. I can't say otherwise to God's valley, naturally, God, let's call them whatever we want. If we don't respect them then we pay the price. Same me, same you, same every single person. And whenever we don't respect it, we pay the price. And that's a question of how, I don't know, sexual freedoms, lifestyles, ways of life in marriage, etc., and that's the price we all pay and that's medically proven, and it's proven that infertility is influenced by what we're talking about. And on the other hand, we're not even interested in that question at all, but then we're back on the issue of rights, human rights, the rights of our choice, the right to this, the right to that, and then we say all of this right. We have every right to do that. But then in the name of that right we have the right to freeze life to make up for that mistake, we can't call it anything else, which is. That's one I'd say, one schizophrenic situation from which there's no way out. It is unacceptable to use to this extent a public pressure instrument to adopt its own position and its own belief and every little announcement of the image of one child, but if it is in the service of the charge that Milinovic has disproved this or that. Remember a list published on the cover of 10 small beautiful children's faces, and it was written, "These children would not have been born if it were Milinovic's law." It was a simple lie. That's really incomprehensible. I don't distinguish us that we are more important, however, more important these children are, yet it was ugly to see our images of our surprised faces, these photographers who tried to find some poses so little strange, so we acted as some characters from some ugly bass, then the title up These people need themselves, these embarrassed Croatia, etc. Why? Because we voted in favour of the Law that he had arranged, the relationship was arranged by an area that was completely unregulated, which until the adoption of this Law was so, which was so and we wanted to change it and make it better. I would ask you, but it would be good and useful to all of you if you could read what an American scientist who I can calmly say, addressed, changed his attitude, what he did and how they did to justify abortion, for example in America, and what kind of media campaign they conducted to convince the public and to change the public's opinion to get, what you often say, the public is looking for. There is always something the public is looking for, and the poor people are neither guilty nor obliged, but they are constantly exposed to the pressure of these and such opinions, then they are the victim of such attempts, etc. I mean, aren't we the victims of aggressive commercials, of this thing, we're not looking for it, none of us are looking for it, I'm not going to mention certain products by name now, but we're constantly under that pressure, and then it can be declared if we're looking for something, we're not looking for it. Since I have often commented here, or tried to correct the incorrect allegations of certain colleagues and colleagues, I may have done it in part in one wrong way, because we are actually different again in our attitudes and I cannot correct the position, nothing, nor have I the right, but of course I disagree with the attitude of my colleague Pusic to challenge the dignity of a woman to decide her fate, as if a woman were the first enemy of a man, as if she had been singled out from a society with a man, as if she could do without the help of another and without the help of a man to bring a child, etc. A fellow Pupovac went so far as to say that it was unacceptable under certain frameworks and procedures to allow people to do something. That's the joke, that's the thing, that's the point, that we're here to bring some frames, some procedures, optimal. I know we won't agree on that question, but we must at least get as close as we can. I think these amendments that are here have been made among other things in this bill with a view to approximation. However, there is one limit when no further can be accepted, when this side cannot accept anything more than that. Now, you're not going to make any of these changes and additions that you've advocated yourself for, now you're not, because you want something else. So, some toy that was seen in her childhood. What? I said so, you asked that these amendments and additions we advance the Law, so you're offered no further, you won't vote for this law. And the findings of my colleague, Anticevic, I really think it was one lapus, so I'm not going to mention what she said here, I don't think we should look back on it, I hope she doesn't think so, what she said. If it's not a lapus, well, when it's not a lapus, then I have to look back at it for not a lapus. A colleague of Anticevic said that the human being was just becoming a human being when he was born. See, that's something I held, I thought it was one mistake, that it was a sacrament that happened that had nothing to do with my colleague Anticevic's opinion, she still confirms that I really don't understand it. So we can underline this, so right now in Croatia we have 11,000 frozen mattresses, we have 700,800 children who are born, we have only 30 of the mattresses, frozen covers, there's no reason to freeze them. There are methods in the world that are very successful, that are just as successful as freezing mattresses and why not adopt them and accept them. And my message at the end of the series, to all women in Croatia, to all Croatians and to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have problems with conception, trust doctors in Croatia and this Ministry, and these problems will be solved. After all, if I can't get rid of myself otherwise, then I need to think again about the sacred solution, which is adoption, which is perfectly natural, quite human and quite acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39514	Two corrections and four replicas. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39515	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bagarić is... I hope that he finished medicine so that he respects scientific facts and facts based on scientific knowledge, scientific knowledge is that up to 40 days the embryo is not a living being and it is your scientific knowledge, whether you admit it or not. And the other thing is 30 children were born of frozen embryos, only for the reason that Croatia does not have medically assisted fertilization at the moment, because we, HDZ who has been in power for 15 years, simply destroyed it. And that's why we only have 30. See how many in the world are in the centres of pregnancy and frozen embryos and refer to it, do not refer to yourself because it is your fault that there is no medically assisted fertilisation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39516	Vice-President Vesna Pusic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39517	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In a series of strange things that my colleague said, I'm going to correct one that's eclectically incorrect. Namely, he said that one side advocates the freezing of fertilized eggs or embryos, and the other side opposes it. That's not true. One side advocates the ban on freezing fertilized eggs, and the other side advocates the chance for each woman to decide whether to freeze fertilized eggs or unfertilized eggs. So, from the level of Minister Milinovic, who decides instead of a woman, it lowers it to every person's level. Therefore, we do not advocate that only fertilised eggs can be ordered to freeze, but to leave it to a woman, in any case, to decide in accordance with her worldview without Minister Milinovic's decision. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39518	Replications. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39519	A colleague of Bagariæ's two reasons why I volunteered for the replica. I'll repeat what my colleague Pusic just said. Namely, one side said you advocated freezing the cover, the other one didn't. That's not true. It is true that some want to limit medical fertilization methods, while others demand that all medically justified fertilisation methods be used and women decide on this. That's true. The second thing I'm responding to is yours, you said the term schizophrenic situation. A colleague, Bagaric, is indeed a schizophrenic situation if in one country, the Minister of Science is funding research, and the scientific findings based on these studies, another minister, health care, says that, but we will not use them. It's schizophrenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39520	Replica reply, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39521	Dear Professor Doric, when I said it honestly, it would have been better if I hadn't said it, it's schizophrenic, but it's picturesque that you understand it, but I was thinking about this part, so you're saying it, we're saying this. And the consequence is that every bit of newspaper inscriptions are what they are, with pictures of children, which is inadmissible and what is truly sick, which is unacceptable, incomprehensible. And so I was speaking from that point of view. And when it comes to that, are we allowed or not? So there's no dispute about it, so I don't accept it. I don't accept your position that we don't allow anything. We've actually chosen between two methods one that's not in our opinion or morally, I don't know legally, nor philosophically, or whatever you want medically controversial. And which is just as valid as this other one. So why would we go into the dubiosis of those who wear the freeze traps if we can't bypass it in a way that we allow and develop, perfect the methods of freezing an egg cell. Well, my colleague Mrs. And you know that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39522	Second replica. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39523	And here's my colleague, Bagaric, who spent a lot of his debate here on the fact that there are actually some people here who are looking for a freeze in the mattresses, the others aren't looking for it. We're not here to ban people from anything. Especially when it comes to health and the treatment of diseases such as infertility. No one has the right to prohibit a medical procedure such as the freezing of embryos most successful so far showing the profession cures infertility, which was just done by Minister Milinovic and most of the people who have raised their hand in this House. What is our task, this is to enable in law everything that Croatian medicine can do to Croatian citizens to be treated for some disease, in this case from infertility, and to reduce to the least possible limit and the level of all possible malfeasance or abuse. That's our job. So what you've done now is ban people from one medical procedure, it's freezing their cover. We do not even have the right under the Law on Patients’ Rights, which states in Article 8 that the patient has the right to be fully informed of possible replacements for recommended procedures. Therefore, why not allow the possibility of citizens, therefore, to partners, couples, married or out of wedlock, who are being treated for infertility, to choose whether to freeze or not. Let us allow them this right because this right belongs to them under the Constitution, that right belongs to them under the Law on the Protection of Patients and I am really wondering who is here and the Minister and most of Parliament to defend the citizens of something that Croatian medicine can do to help them reach their children?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39524	Replica reply, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking... if Switzerland, if Poland, if Italy can, does not prohibit but does not allow the freezing of embryos, Croatia is a sovereign state and it can do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not true he can't. We certainly can. If we pass the law, then we bring it in as much as anything else. So it's not true that we can't do it, we can do it. Others have done so because they do not know what to do with millions and hundreds of thousands of frozen entanglements because hundreds of thousands of other questions are being opened. I'm asking you, here I'm asking you right now, is the embryo that 10, 5 or I don't know how many years it's been standing deep in the ice, is the next day going to be as acceptable as the one that just happened? So let's not plant each other now. That's what I just said earlier that it's just an uncompromising line at the level of those two thoughts. This is our attitude, this is our belief, we believe in this, you believe in it, and we simply have most now, for now, thank God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39526	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39527	So here's what you're saying, buddy, is that there's a schizophrenic situation. That's the only thing I could agree with you for. So much care for frozen embryos. You're declaring them here already a living creature, and it's doubtless that both the embryo and the embryo are something that has and can only be born and will be a living being. Man. This aspect that you're imposing here is a religious question. And no one defends what counterpart Pusic said, freedom of choice. Some woman will let her freeze, another for these reasons you promote here she won't, but it's a matter of freedom. And faith is a sir, a colleague, a matter of freedom first of all, not imposing such an act of law. I think it's hypocritical, so much concern to devote to frozen traps that you don't even know if tomorrow will become a life, because they can become one, and we don't ask the question every winter, here comes winter, so many of our older citizens will freeze. So you're more concerned now you're setting up here for those who can just be born, expensive cells, than adults and responsible persons. It's primarily a schizophrenic situation. The question you're asking here and you actually want it, there's no doubt that's why you're voting. But what my colleague Opačić said, not only that, but you in such a way violate the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women of 1979, which, in their own terms, I will only quote to you the provision of Articles 2 and 15 which obliges, and we are signatories and parties to that Convention, obliges all Member States to take all measures that will abolish discrimination on the basis of their marital status, but also all discrimination against women in procreation and to promote and use and coordinate all laws and measures precisely to ensure that women are free in their procreation. This tells you the provision of Articles 2 and 12. But we make it easy to sign conventions we don't follow later.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39528	Replication response, Mr. Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39529	So we just keep going with double standards in interpreting certain things. So, in a gender of human rights towards UN conventions, etc. There's no right at all if you want to be a descendant. There's no such thing as a right. Why? Because there is no right to a gift, for example. compositing. Now I'd have the right to file all the charges of this world, and I don't know anyone, if I didn't have a gift for anything. So someone had nothing, was not given, and no one can take responsibility for it. But as a society, we are responsible for doing and helping that someone to achieve and if it is a disease to heal and if the problem is any kind of thing to do. This law is just doing it, it's helping right now, but within some normal limits where it can solve things. You've repeated the fundamental difference that makes me different. You said the question is, will the embryo ever become life? Well, there's a fundamental question and a fundamental difference between your attitude and our attitude. For us, the embryo is already life. So it's not a question of whether or not he's going to become, he already is. But the question is, are we going to kill him or are we going to enable him to develop and live? So, just so we don't get into these doubts and get into a situation. And you're letting me answer you, so you're doing it now. Okay. Thank you very much. So, I'm staying with what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39530	And Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bagariæ can fully agree with your view that it is increasingly less what is a big difference, the issue of freezing the cover, and it seems to me that this remains the last difference in this law. Because I'm going to remind you when the law was passed, when the law started to be debated, it wasn't at all possible for the extramarital community to initiate this procedure, and then it started for three years at the judge and now it's only going to be with the public notary. It also became a story that they were mandatory, that after 18 years, anyone who asked to reveal his father's name would, and yet it was put in case the sperm donor agreed to it. So that's another step forward. He's still fucking. And in the end, we're going to come up with that, that this last recommendation is going to be resolved the way you said, this side is looking for it. And that's exactly why, because I'm holding like my colleague Aticevic that it's more about religious and less about scientific issues. And as long as that is the case, until the end, I will defend the right to your opinion, until the end, I will defend the right to decide. But you don't forbid me to think about this law that his real name should be the Law on medically assisted and politically difficult insemination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39532	Thank you. Replica reply, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39533	My friend Arsena, now in this replica, I think it's impossible to answer, because you've involved it from beginning to end, you've mixed up, and it's best to shorten the answer to your replica. So if you like something about these changes, why don't you vote for them? Here, if you like it so much and it was thanks to you. Support this law. On the other hand, you're talking about how you're going to defend my right to this, to that, etc., and you've challenged everything I've said. So how is that possible? So, you challenged everything I said, and then you said you'd still fight that I do, and I know what you're alluding to? You're alluding to what someone said, but it's a completely different context and it has nothing to do with this right now. Therefore, it certainly has nothing to do with the political ban, etc. And speaking of faith, I do not defend you and I do not disturb you to continue living in your belief, your environment, your heritage, your infidelity or your beliefs. Therefore, this is our belief, this is yours. So let us allow ourselves to respect one another and not call it any politics or diminish the importance of this religious thing in this matter. Why not? So if I didn't believe it, I'm sorry, if I didn't believe it was a cover life, so I'd say right now, let the people let it go. Allow what has to do with the story. So I believe it's life, and that's why I don't want to sign something where we're going to kill that life. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39534	Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39535	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. As this discussion continues to spread, in order for some things not to remain unsaid, I would give a few reasons. So, on the question of the honourable representative, is it true that the regulation only fits one clinic in Croatia as reportedly being transferred today? That's not true. The rule made the waist, exclusively the waist. The Ministry only provided technical assistance and the Regulation was drawn up as a minimum standard under the conditions requested by the European Association for Human Reproduction. However, what made me come forward on behalf of the promoter, that we might look at things more correctly. So, if he remembers this House of the High in September and October when the SDP proposal was discussed, and it was the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, then in one provision of this law it was clearly and loudly placed that the embryo would, therefore, allow freezing for 5 years and after that the embryo would be allowed to die. It is clear and loud that this definition has led us to believe that the SDP is considered to be a human being. Then I'd read it one more time. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the Application of Biology and Medicine and the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine in Article 2 shall speak, inter alia, in other articles of Article 2(2). "Interes and the well-being of a human being have an advantage over the self-interest of society or science." In other words, if we connected the fact that this proposal was said to be practically a human being, then this convention simply binds our hands, to bring a different provision itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39536	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39537	Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. Here I will be as loud as ever, but I will be as fast as ever, although my neighbor next door says a little easier, slow down, but I will be quick for more reasons because in the course of the debate almost everything is said. And I'm fast so naturally, so God created me, and in that part of it I certainly want to speed up, although I suspect this debate will last and there will be more attachments, as it is said. But I want to repeat some things and say that according to the definition of the World Fertility Association, sterility, infertility or reduced fertility, when a couple does not experience pregnancy within a year. The second point is that about 25 to 33% in the regular cycle in couples that are neat findings cannot occur in pregnancy. Furthermore, 10 to 15% of couples face this problem and in any case we repeat that there is a primary, secondary and... Infertility and that there is inability to produce living fruit, inability to bear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all well-known. The World Health Organization conducted a multicentre study of 3 and a half thousand couples and reached 11%, with 11% of couples unable to prove who caused it, 24% both, etc. So that's statistical data. But aside from the statistics, all these people who are in such circumstances are really going through severe trials and are particularly sensitized. That is why we are also bound by this debate and all this together to give quality, valid information to these people. And I personally had in my practice to witness such couples for many years, and I am aware of how sensitized they are. And indeed what Mr. Minister said is that one valid and quality and good information is given to these people, because it really binds us in this House of Commons. It was the '78 law. For years, that's what we said. I don't think we should talk about him anymore, and in the meantime, medical science and technology have progressed, of course. There is this Convention to protect the dignity of human beings with regard to the application of biology and medicine, so there is the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and there is another directive in 2004 that speaks of the standards of taking samples and transplanting part of the human body. So, all these things are familiar and in these circumstances the law that was passed was passed. And in the meantime, there was a capital I would say, the profession said, the Association for Human Reproduction has said very important real, and we have said that today and again, so the profession gives support to the Law on Medical Insemination to make order, very important order and control of medical insemination. It's a very important thing that it is. And the second important moment is that they said, the waist is fully prepared and able, with a brief appraisal, to do this demanding job. That's the second moment and the third important thing they said was that within six months, so in April they'll make an evaluation of the results achieved, please nice. So it's very clear, so in these circumstances I think we can support this law and certainly continue to carry on quality and soundly informing those who need it. Thank you very much. /Applause/ [[- Insect: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39538	One replica. Mr. Representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39539	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Oh, actually listening to this debate and following this through all the time and the first and the repairs of this second, so the same law, we're actually forgetting who we are. Well, we're actually... And we follow the Christian tradition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why don't we admit it when everything is on that level? Therefore, so does this segment of human life from the very embryo to the natural death of which, fortunately or unfortunately, I am a witness at close range, it is God's work and there is no such thing as that liberal or any liberal who will now try to change things in that context. Well, that's the basic question. Therefore, there is no freezing. We can go through the logic of things and say why a child who was born to me so there's no condition we wouldn't freeze him a little bit, so we'll unfreeze him there a little while when I don't know how to fix the conditions, these, them. Well, that's the same thing. Either frozen it in 16 seconds or frozen it at 6 weeks or at 4 years or when it was born. It's the same thing and let's not get away from the problem. Let's not try to work it out right now with something to God's worry about and so much, for demographics, for this, for that. All that, gentlemen, is paved with good intentions. And even when spoken, here's a parallel, when it comes to nuclear energy, it was also such quotes, and we know how unfortunately it ended and how unfortunately it could end. Therefore, everyone who wants it, who has their brains open, soul and heart, and think in one normal way, will understand what I'm talking about and there's no point in me talking for long. So, Mr. Minister, when they said that suddenly a man changes his mind, you know who changes his mind, the one who has it, and who doesn't have it, there's nothing to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39540	Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in a very short time, a year is a short time, a third we are discussing this law. We also voted one by following the debates, which I was really interested in, which I can say that something and I know, not everything, I think we've been on, I'm not going to say on the opposite sides, but at opposite points of view and about the profession and the worldview. So I'm going to say that today's debate has made me happy that finally after the law was passed two months ago that we adopted in this House of Commons, we have a chance to say again what happened during these two months. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must say that at that time in my debate, I have defended the latest knowledge of modern medicine, the achievements in the field of human reproduction, among other things, of our distinguished academic, Professor Drazencic. But I think it paints the essence of all the debates that were held today, which were conducted two months ago, which were conducted a year ago, and it says so. I believe that the final proposal for the law is reasonably written and that it proposes ways of medically assisted insemination and will be understood and accepted by most of the population in the Republic of Croatia. Why do we keep track of what most people want most people want, most of them want a law like that. That's the point of what we disagree on, that most people want a law like this, not a minority who once and through the media is having an affair. A further respected professor says the laws in line with the modern achievements of medical insemination. It is the essence of tradition and modern achievements in medical fertilization. That's true. And what happened after the law was passed? Dear ladies and gentlemen, representatives, and especially fellow doctors, that after the vote of the law in this House of Commons in our daily media, the picture is first entitled “They have disgraced Croatia” and then a picture of all the MPs who voted in favour of the law. And now as a doctor, as a surgeon who's spent my whole life devoted to humanity, expertise, I've never let down the profession and scientific achievements in medicine that someone who's really not competent in this area says that I've disgraced the profession because we've passed a law that's still based on modern understandings of medicine and that would back it up like this. Mr. Mrsic, when he spoke on behalf of the SDP, says laparoscopic surgery today is the law in surgery. Yeah, I'll remind you in 1987, the first laparoscopic surgery was performed in Lyon, and it's gynological, and when I'm at the Surgeon Congress in two years. Vodopia from Murska Sobota held means lecture all our people said it was never in Croatia we will never accept it. I have to open my stomach to see him operate. I need to do a gynaecological surgery to know what's going on inside. Today, 97% of operations in Croatia are performed only and only in this way, only and only. And today when we talk about freezing egg cells, the data is not that they were invented by Mr. Milinovic. These are the data he quoted from the latest world literature. Why don't we trust them? If these discussions, which also saddened me by Mrs Pusic's special debate, which said the position of the profession that was presented there was brought under pressure, as well as by certain stimulations. Did you think Mrs. Pusic that these distinguished professors of ours bought, bought, received bribes for what they wrote. Take a closer look at the phonogram you've said to other stimuli. So as you can, there's been signed 10 respected professors who've been creating their academic career for 40 years that they're going to have a million kuna educations that they don't go to, but some of their younger ones are going to learn to change their mind and give that law and profession to support the law, and that's really not worthy of you as a university professor. This really is not worthy of you talking about the most important profession in Croatian society in this way. And yet, I said at the beginning that our disagreements over this law, and after this debate, will remain identical. We pass a law based on what the minister said to modern sciences, medical achievements, a way of medical insemination that enables 97% of survival of egg cells when frozen that allows pregnancy to be 30% and I don't see why it would be too permissive. And what is extremely important is what the profession said about this law, that after 6 months, the minister will do an analysis of what is happening in the Republic of Croatia and why we do not accept it that way. We'll say after six months we'll analyze, not us Parliamentarians because we're not competent enough to do that, but let them analyze the profession that supported today's law. It is clear that everyone can analyze and say, Mr. Minister, inform parliamentary representatives and the public that this way of medical insemination is not good in Croatia. And if that's what the profession says, believe me, I'll be the first one to tell the Ministers let's change that law. And let's not talk about something that we're cheating on the public. Another thesis that ran almost all summer and was here in Croatia does not cure infertility. Well, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who knows basic medical rights, our citizens don't need to know that that's why doctors are here. To be infertile or to say that he has an infertile marriage, he must pass the detection procedure, the diagnosis that this marriage is infertile, and that takes a year. And a good part of these infertility that initially appear to be infertility is treated without medical fertilisation and the headlines have been banned from the treatment of medical fertilisation in the Republic of Croatia. It really does not serve us as parliamentarians to deceive the public, to talk about that our experts who are also a humiliation and profession and people who work in the profession and 40 years to talk in Croatia do not know how to do it, do not do it well, go to Slovenia, go to Maribor. I'll tell you I was in Maribor two weeks ago and I went to Professor Vlaisavljevic. And he said I was learning to do it in Zagreb at Peter's hospital with the late Professor Grizel. And why don't we tell our public that he's a student of the Zagreb school. He was in Ljubljana but he's in Zagreb. Everyone knows it, and when we talk about Maribor and Maribor all summer, it's perfect for Maribor and you Mrsic said from 1500 couples 50 went to Maribor, abroad. That's 3%. How many of your patients are being treated abroad from your diseases to whom? Same 3%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39542	Two corrections, two replicas. First correction by Ms. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39543	I am correcting the incorrect quote of Mr. Strickic who, when he spoke of freezing the mattresses, said only a minority is asking for these rights. A fellow Strikic has every right in this country and no one has the right to take away from him to be treated with any medical procedure that Croatian medicine can perform. So if a man in Croatia is sick of some disease and Croatian health care can treat him, we owe him that. Therefore, if we can freeze the embryos, if this is the best way to cure infertility, then it is something that we cannot forbid people, but we must enable them to do so. And I have to say that I'm really determined that you, as a doctor, share the rights of patients to the minority and the majority. I hope that's not how you do it when your patients come into your office.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39544	And Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Please, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative. I'm sorry, it's just, it's just a violation of the Rules of Procedure before. ... No, on the replica you don't have that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39545	My colleague Strickic quoted me incorrectly when he spoke about laparoscopic surgery. It's true. That's when it started, but at that time, no classical methods were banned. So it's both complementary and laparoscopic and classic. We forbid one method here, and we introduce another that we still don't know what's going to happen and how it's going to be in the world. And secondly, I would trust this paper if under it was signed Professor... If Professor... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will correct my opinion, but it will not happen to you because Prof.... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nor will any other expert from the world be signed on that paper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39546	Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39547	My colleague, I purposely raised a line to give you a chance to answer one thing that is absolutely not clear to me. Namely, I am proud to live in a country where there is a right to choose as far as reproduction is concerned. We have the right to an abortion. So it's a woman's thing that if she decides to throw it away, she can. We have the right to have a woman decide to put as a birth control to the spiral. Well, you're not gonna tell me that all those women with spirals, and we know that with a spiral, a woman can stay pregnant, but she's already miscarried to her first period without even knowing she's pregnant. Surely there are colleagues sitting here using that method to be murderers, so those who destroy human lives before, since you consider the embryo to be a living being. So I don't understand why this inconsistency. What makes this hypocrisy that we have certain rights, and here you are now so stubbornly defending the freezing of embryos as living beings? Here's what I really can't understand, that inconsistency and that hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39548	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, I would be absolutely for the proposal to freeze the entanglements if there were no alternative method. The alternative method exists, professionally, scientifically proven. Is the effect of this method slightly better? Is it? That will be evaluated by experts after six months. He'll grade after six months. Why don't we let the expert decide. How do you know if you haven't tried something, and the world is doing it, it's not good? So the alternative method exists, the law offers an alternative method. That's one thing. Second. I don't change attitudes, I really am raised, I live so that the embryo is a human being. If you don't think so, I respect that, too. I respect that. That's your will. And most of the Croatian people, most of them, in this country, most of them think they are. And sometimes we should respect the will of the majority, not diminish the rights of the patient because we offer him an alternative method. That's all there is to it. And when you figure it out, there won't be any problems like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39550	And Mrs. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39551	You say a colleague said waist, said most of them, and that's what many of them said from the ruling majority. However, I think the key question here is the fundamental question when it comes to birth issues, when it comes to the body of a woman that should be asked most of Croatia, and these are women. You don't ask them anything, and you have to ask them. Whether you want it or not, and whether you most or not, just because you are bound by it, you are bound by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are bound by the International Convention on the Elimination of All forms of discrimination against women. And this amendment is really directly contrary to the principle of equality, because legally, this proposal prescribes medical treatments for different physical situations which are currently different for the consequence, i.e. A smaller rate of success for different women, and that's the biggest problem. In addition, medical treatments in detail, it's a key question, they can't be the subject of a legal provision, they're a matter of medical profession. ... Any case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what is also very important, I will remind you again of the provision of Article 12 of the Convention which obliges Member States, and we are a Member State, to take all appropriate measures to remove discrimination against women in the field of health care in order to ensure that men and women are accessible to health services, including those relating to the birth of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39552	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39553	Thank you very much. Here's the esteemed MP, I really have nothing to call on except science and profession. That's one thing. And your conscience. But listening to today's debate, two months ago, I'm sorry about the debate almost a year ago, and I'm going to say to the minister that you weren't at this symposium, because most of all in this speaker you're talking about the profession and this highly profiled medical profession. I never get right to you, I think you have the right to talk about what you want in this assembly, but that you're measured to interpret the profession, which I don't think you are. I still don't think so. And as for discrimination, I don't think I've ever been into any discriminatory law or the one you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39554	And Madam Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39555	Mr. counterpart, it's also a replica so we can have a chance to answer something. You keep calling for an expert opinion, and you're terribly upset about my suspicion of the authenticity of that expert opinion. So let me remind you. The expert opinion was one two months ago, and today two months later it's the opposite. Since no scientific discovery occurred in those two months, explain to me how this terrible change in professional opinion occurred? So you did not teach in those two months those experts something they did not know until then. It opens up the space of reasonable doubt, and I think that's what you see with a simple eye. As for the majority and the minority in the Parliament, I even meant not to mention it, but to save my soul. Namely one of the fathers of modern democracy, Alexis de Tocqueville, said that one of the main dangers to modern democracy is terror to the majority. In some things, there is a key argument. That's why there's protection of minorities, protection of minority rights, that's why it wouldn't be terror of the majority, technical term, believe me, I can show you a book later, it's called "Democracy in America". So the very fact that a minority attitude does not mean that this attitude should be ignored, rejected, that it is wrong or anything, means that we need to find a way to fit into both attitudes, and that's why we stand for it. Anyone who thinks like you should have the possibility to comply with this law but anyone who thinks like us should have the opportunity to act according to his attitude. And that's all there is to it, nothing else. Allow people by law to decide for themselves according to their beliefs. That's all we stand for.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39556	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Sundayko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39557	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to interrupt when you were talking about raising a stick to correct an incorrect quote, because I was waiting for my debate to tell you that it made me very sad that you as a university professor doubted our most important part of the medical profession and I only expected when you said that you would send USKOK to see if it was all right there. And who should we trust if not our experts. I didn't say I brought that declaration and consensus, that's what people who know it bring. I don't know what managed them two months ago, whether they had enough data and whether they have today and I don't doubt if you're always calling on the distinguished professor Ibla Isavljević and not only him, why we don't trust our people, three days ago we don't trust our prime minister, we trust the prime minister of Slovenia, we go live in Slovenia and then we'll believe everything in Slovenia. What we're going to believe then is Slovenia, which is not the terror of the minority. But you said they were corrupt, so it is unacceptable for you in the Croatian Parliament to state at the top of the medical profession in human reproduction that they are stimulated to make these conclusions. That's scandalous.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39558	One other theorist is except that the terror of the majority has said that the more dangerous terror of the minority than the terror of the majority, you know that very well. And Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39559	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I hope it's not a problem that I'm not a doctor, because the last time we discussed this law two months ago, I earned a warning because I dared say something and I'm not a doctor. I don't think talking and discussing this issue has anything to do with whether or not someone is a doctor, and I think I can talk about it as the father of a girl who came into the world through a medically assisted insemination process. I would like to remind my colleagues that on July 8th, when the Law on Medical Aided Insemination was debated, you were all bitterly opposed to these amendments and the additions discussed today. You've been very eager to argue that it's not necessary, you've made up all sorts of arguments and facts, today's a second song, and I'm glad for that, but it's not enough. Today, Mr. Minister who has no patience to sit in this assembly on a very important social topic spent his 25-minute opening session with the media, journalists, political opponents and citizens, patients who need help have not spent a second of their time. So much for what he thinks, how he thinks, and how he thinks about solving problems, medical problems, which unfortunately some of our fellow citizens have. I thought politics didn't have to be an obstacle when we all need help together to help our fellow citizens and fellow citizens solve their problems, but unfortunately the more and the longer we discuss this issue, the deeper, the bigger and almost impregnable we are. I will remind you that during the debate on the SDP Proposal for a Law on Medical Aided Insemination almost a little less than a year ago in this Assembly there was still a high level of consensus in the sense that the law should be passed, that we should all have understanding together, that we should take care of Croatia's future, that we should open up space for those who need real help and get help. Unfortunately, the next debate showed a much narrower view, and the color doesn't look much better today either. Many cynical smiles today and in the last debate, even as much as I did in my debate and mentioned the secretary of state sitting here and I wanted to tell him one thing and remind him that by defending the bill that you passed two months ago in this esteemed House, it was about freezing egg cells, and also on television shows, quoting the achievements of the Toronto Institute of Reproductive Medicine that it was the best thing that could be seen and based on it defended its position. But shortly after that, in an interview with the "Evening List" on 22 July, the director of the same institute denied it in the following way: What experience in freezing the eggs of that same institute corresponds to classical slow freezing does not give good results, egg cells that are full of water are treated with coriprotectors, substances that act as antifreezes, they stand for a long time and are toxic substances. Asking what you would suggest to your patients if you hesitate to freeze an embryo or an egg cell its answer is an embryo without thinking. The best and most predictable results at this point are freezing embryos. It's a finished quote. It seems that the arguments, the facts, the desire to help people, the people who make decisions in Croatia at this time are not political or other. That is why my message to all women and men, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia not only Croatians and Croats, some have said so here today, and if they think so they should, because others live in Croatia, not just Croats and Croats, if they think so, is the wrong opinion. Those who need help while HDZ is like this and this law unfortunately doesn't help us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39560	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39561	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, as my predecessor said, the minister said and left, and apparently it was much easier for him to communicate on a one-sided basis only, when he said something and went away, and it's harder to hear arguments on the other. If that were the case, it was present, therefore, in the seventh month when we discussed this law and when we voted it. When we tried everything that is changing today in the changes, but much more than that, we said to the Minister and most of the MPs in this House, but unfortunately the haughtiness and arguments of force were much stronger than the actual arguments, and these were the arguments of the principal profession that we were making here and which had been a little more hearing, the minister could have already adopted, today we would not have had these amendments to the law, and today we would certainly have our patients who are being treated with infertility been much more satisfied because they could have achieved this right in Croatian hospitals. Unfortunately, the approach and principle, therefore, to rule the HDZ government by the principle of force of hands, rather than arguments that are presented, is simply something that has become a standard. That's what happened when we talked about the crisis a year ago. Nothing was going to be done, today we find ourselves in the situation we are in, but of all that, the worst part is that the price is paid by Croatian citizens. The price of this policy, inconsistencies, boasts, is paid by the citizens of this country. This is how people who are being treated for infertility, who, due to such an approach at the moment, cannot therefore exercise their right, and since this law that changes like this does not change in those segments that are very important for citizens who are being treated for infertility, this means that this right will still not be possible in Croatia but will have to be realized elsewhere. It should be said that he's been trying all along, so his own irresponsibleness, justifying someone generous, and now we realize that this law is not good, so we're going to change it in one part. Two months ago, I, along with my colleagues, warned Mr. Minister that a rigid law was passed in the Republic, or in the neighbouring country of Italy, that this rigid law showed a large number of births, a major drop in birth, a major drop in pregnancy obtained with the help of IVF. And then I said to the Minister don't let Mr. Ministers let the citizens of Croatia, on their own skin, have to examine what they are already in Italy, so what's in other countries that have passed rigid laws, proven, and that's that freezing traps is necessarily leading to a fall in pregnancy and birth, which means a drop in the number of children we can get with the help of the IPO. Unfortunately, Mr. Milinovic, however, decided that citizens of the Republic of Croatia must prove on their skin that this law is wrong, so he will change it. Here now after 2 months, maybe again after a year, but what the minister must have in mind, but all of you who will vote again for this law is that all those citizens who can't have a child now are different from with the help of medically assisted fertilization are actually parents who you've taken the right to come to the child. I've been here on several occasions today saying that people can't be granted the rights they simply have to have by the Constitution, by law, by all means. They must by all means have the right to have what Croatian medicine can do, and can successfully freeze embryos, have far more successful procedures of medically assisted fertilisation, that no one has the right to prohibit it. It's like telling citizens you can do the CT, but here's the right I don't know on a magnetic resonance. Or you have the right to one kind of medicine, but to this one that might help you even better is that you have no right. It's also done, of course HZZO and it does, and then people who are suffering from severe illness say we don't have any money or that medicine can't help you, so we won't give it to you because we can't pay for it. But the right of a Croatian citizen is to get everything that Croatian medicine can. At this point, it is important that this law be incorporated into the right to freeze the mattresses. We have given the amendment in which we have opened the space to be the right partner to enter the process of medically aiding insemination. Let that be their decision. And where does the right of someone to judge here be they Catholic or not Catholic and how will someone decide? So I'll tell you that I have examples of people who are absolutely Catholics, believers from childhood, but trust me when they realize that they can't have children naturally through ma everything will do to get to that child. And where do we get the right to say you can't? Where do we get the right to say you can't do that because here we don't give the law to freeze mattresses? There's no argument that can be defended, absolutely no argument. And we tried to tell you two months ago and you wouldn't listen to us, now you're repeating the same mistake again. You've given cosmetic changes and it's not enough, it's not enough to help people who want to get to the baby. We have a national population policy. It's a lot of times around here, we all have more kids in our mouths, our nation's extinctions. Of course it's dying out on the nation, but my people will tell you one more time, look in Italy that passed the Rigid Law, it's fallen, the number of births of live births has fallen significantly. Well, Mr. Golem, don't put your head down when the data is official in European statistics, for God's sake. Well, you're absolutely resisting everything. You resist facts that have been scientifically proven. I ask you once again why you think Croatian citizens have to prove to you that this is bad for them? That we'll lose a number of children we can have again. Only those who have the money to pay for it will go out. What about those who don't have money? Well, there's more and more citizens surviving from today to tomorrow. Where to pay medically assisted fertilisation in Maribor, Prague or anywhere else. Well, a lot of people sell their house so they can go to Vienna and get their baby. I don't know if you can figure it out. Try to put yourself in the skin of those whose medicine is one way to get to the offspring. A serious minister wrote a law that is consistent with the profession. He wasn't in line with the profession. The pressure on the profession came only after the Rigid Law was passed here in the Croatian Parliament and after people in many clinics rebelled against being able to do medically assisted insemination. And then he started talking to the profession, which I call pressure on the waist. A serious minister would prepare a law that has all the accompanying regulations. In 2004, when Minister Hebrang was Minister of Health, he was referred to the procedure of the law that you, with your party's will, have stopped. That law had Mr. Golem, when there is no minister here to tell him, this size of a bundle of accompanying regulations until the last form to be fulfilled for the medically assisted fertilization procedure. It was all worked out. You're the one who sent the law into procedure as the last dilettante. You sent it as a law without a single accompanying act. And now you've written in the law that all the accompanying regulations that allow the law to function in practice will be passed in the next three months. So, three more months, my dear citizens, wait for your child. It is absolutely inadmissible behavior, irresponsible and not appropriate to someone who performs such a responsible function, which is the function of minister in the Croatian Government. And once again, please, we will not be able to support these changes, because they will not bring what is most important to Croatian citizens, which is to allow them to choose their own methods of treatment for the freeze of the mattresses because they have the right to both the Constitution and the Law on the Rights of patients. Infertility is a disease, so they have the right to choose how this disease will be treated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39562	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39563	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, my colleague said that the amendment submitted was an open possibility to change if it's working, that's incorrect. Because if this is about the amendment that we have received on the benches, then probably a colleague knows very well that he is businessly impossible, because, by amending and supplementing the law, only those provisions that are in these amendments and additions, and not the basic law, can be proposed. And all the MPs know very well, and today there have been a lot of, a lot of speeches about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure at this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39564	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It is next to the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, even though the Law on Medical Insemination entered into force on 30 July this year, opportunities for certain improvements were observed, as Mrs Lovrin's representative already pointed out in an individual debate. So, in that sense, the proposed amendments and additions to this law are. Although we have also heard some recommendations about the attitudes of the profession, I will point out, however, that human reproduction experts, by discussing the law, have drawn up guidelines for its application and also a strategy for the rapid progress of that part of reproductive medicine. Just as it should be pointed out that the profession is supporting this law and that it is particularly pleased, we also heard what the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Health Insurance Department have done and led to the reform of this noble activity and the importance that it definitely belongs to. But we could also hear that the profession is fully prepared to implement all the provisions of the law, so there is absolutely no room for doubt or fear by patients about the quality of treatment. It is certainly good for this law that health reform in Croatia has been successfully implemented, because it is actually a prerequisite for improving this activity as well as investment. To a full and optimal extent, it simplifies the preparatory process of couples and extramarital partners, and special attention is paid to improving the fertility of young women and men who treat malignant diseases, and at the level of one year there is indeed a lot of about a thousand, about a thousand. It has also been simplified to hear the status process, proof of the status of the extramarital community through a certified statement from the public notebook, which certainly shortens the time of the litigation procedure for proving the same, and whose status must be established prior to the implementation of all procedures of medical insemination. The provision is also complemented that after a written consent of a donor of a sex cell, a child acquires the right to gain insight into the data register of conception and all data on the biological origin of the donor being kept at the State Registry on Medical Insemination at the Ministry of Health. Finally, it should be pointed out that the profession claims that the freezing of egg cells has technologically improved and the Croatian Society for Human Reproduction also claims that it has never become, nor is there now a need for treatment abroad. With these amendments and additions and citizens themselves as well as the profession, there will be results for which these amendments and additions are made, so I will certainly vote for these amendments and the additions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39566	Thank you. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Please, you have to hang up your phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39567	Well, you remember that... The citizens call this one situation and this one, and I must first of all be more specific. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39568	I didn't see it, you called. Keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39569	No, please, you can check. You'll be sure to check very quickly whether it was an invitation or a response, since it's been so... We know otherwise that you like to work and listen, but then about that, it'll be your turn. I hope it doesn't take long.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39570	It was, it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39571	This is how you see it, and this bill of law says...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39572	I'd just like to ask Mrs. Honorable MPs, regardless of the kind of pitch we're allowing you to make threats you can't make. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39573	They're not threats. That's a promise, sir. It is not a threat, it is our duty to remove all abuses and illegalities. It's a duty and a promise. ... Will you let me do the talking? [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39574	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39575	Because you're the first person to impose this kind of conversation that I'm happy to respond to.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39576	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39577	So, and such a proposal to amend the law for which you did not get a payt of the profession, now with it you triumphantly fantasize. We also know how, but it's not the subject of this debate. We wouldn't be here so much about it, but about the bill itself. He's talking about the legality of a la HDZ. It's a specific kind of legality. Namely, the right to be asked before any question, with which right is Mr. Minister who has clearly put pressure on the prime minister herself, but does not justify the entire government, so he has now escaped from this bill of law which is still a premature one. And indeed, it does not deserve to be called either the content of the Law on Medical Insemination, or the aided fertilisation, as already called in the law, but on the fertilization that has been achieved. With what right, I beg you nicely, and by what regulation, by which provision does the Constitution attach itself to the health of a woman? By what regulation did this authority, and who gave her the mandate to have a female body as a platform for demonstrating her own impotence? Who gives you the right to insult, first of all, the dignity of a woman with this bill of law? When James Watson, a scientist who discovered the structure of DNA, asked about these questions, because they're always interesting questions, then he answered, when it comes to these questions and he was a scientist, and he answered: better about these issues, that men stick a little bit further, and that women talk more about it. Because men, he says, often flee from their own children and impose solutions on other people's children. And that should be the basic thought of leadership when it comes to these things. Mr. Minister ran away because he's gone, he's here in front of you, so you have the right to joke and at his expense, he's here somewhere, saying that based on this proposal, if he adopts at least 2500 contracts with HZZO. However, there is no unique statistics, and we also have to talk about it, there was not a word here, not a single word for certain hospitals to perform different statistics, depending on what is the obstacle, which is the cause of infertility and by many other criteria. Therefore, the promoter himself is aware that this bill and the law as a whole will not win how it is set, the possibility that one who is scientifically founded and which allows today's moment of progress in medicine, that in such cases infertility is already in minor attempts to enable a woman to become pregnant and then later be born. Because as soon as you allow six possible attempts, so you don't believe in the possibility, in a good way, of insemination under this bill. So you're doubting it yourself. But the female body, I say here, is easy for you to demonstrate your power, but it's not power, it's really impotence when a woman's body serves you to demonstrate your power on it. Why should a woman have to go through such unpleasant, painful times, we heard here today from the minister that it was neither painful nor difficult for a woman. The pain is subjective. We know what the women said about it. You didn't wave those papers today. And what has been said here many times on this side, and what Mrs Pusic has insisted on specifically, is that the issue of choice, the issue of freedom is made possible. Why do those who love to believe in all this, why do they need state laws to abide by it? Why? Because the truth is completely different. One is believed and another is done. And that's a matter of hypocrisy, of our society's cancers on many issues, and then of this matter. It's a matter of freedom, but then it's also a matter of responsibility. The power of the sea, the power of one who is and no matter who chooses her, she is the power of all citizens. Let's finally start passing laws for the citizens, not against the citizens. And this is one example of the law that is against citizens, above all against citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, by the way, are the majority in Croatian society. I will repeat once again that the law really goes to the heart of women's health and forces her to submit to excess physical but therefore psychologically dangerous additional procedures. The state is above all under our law, we do not need international and UN conventions, as provided for in Article 62. The Constitution of the States is obliged to protect motherhood, promote and provide for all the measures that contribute to it, rather than restrict it. A woman who, by her nature, is giving birth to a new life, this law is, in effect, depriving in all possibilities of motherhood and, worse still, I repeat, is injured in her female nature and in her human dignity. And how many times we love patheticly to apostrophe this woman nature, and then we discriminate on her where she can't and can't. And then when we're not aware of it, here, by the way, you'll allow Mr. Chairman, because you yourself were the Minister of Internal Affairs, a commendable action of prevention and traffic. Dad's yelling tied up, the sun's tied up, the boss's tied up. And here men are bosses with this kind of thinking that they impose when they're the most sensitive questions, which is the body of a woman, the health of a woman. There's been a lot of talk here about traps. From a religious standpoint quite acceptable, but you have no right to impose on those who do not believe. Because we have to make choices possible, but unfortunately that's what the profession tells you, and that's what people who open their hearts in their troubles where they can't handle it, and they're using those methods that you're preventing them from doing here. Hardly, it should leave a man's conscience free to choose because people will go abroad. They'll fertilize with other people's cells. We don't have a minister who's going to be more of a genetic structure here as a nation, but we have to take care of that, too. Some other questions have not raised here at all, which are also fundamental human rights. Which is why even the right to reproduction must be related to a sex act when medicine today provides something else. Of course HZZO shouldn't pay for it then, but it's also contrary to the provisions of the Constitution. And I will repeat once again that this bill is contrary to the principle of equality of all people, because it legally prescribes medical treatments for different physical situations and for different... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39578	Thank you. Your time is up, I'm sorry. It's my guest, Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39579	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate on this bill, I would like to say that I will not support this bill either, just as I did not support the first version of the law. Why? Because there's a whole series of key reasons for that. In fact, although these amendments to the law have appeared to us very pompous and even revolutionaryly, unfortunately I have to conclude that this document can be very concisely qualified with the help of the old folk proverb “shake the hills, the mouse was born. ” Because how else to assess these shameful and minimal corrections of an extremely discriminatory law, a law that remains in stark contrast with and denies the provisions of organic laws such as the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discretion of Discrimination and thereby derivates fundamental human rights, and respect for human rights is the basis of every modern democratic state of civil values. Since we have changed this law for 2 months since we first discussed it in this Chamber, since these amendments to the law are of no importance and fundamental importance, which is why the public will continue to be dissatisfied and revolving with this law, ministers ask you how many times in this year, and by whose end there are some 3 months of debate in the Assembly once, twice or maybe even three times. Knowing the quality of the legal proposals produced by you and your ministry, I must conclude that nothing, but nothing in this respect can and must surprise us. This bill is the most minimal, most superficially corrected by an extremely unfair law that we are very critical of, and now it is seen to be quite justified two months ago. Although it is good to give up provisions that have provided medically assisted fertilisation de facto disabled by single couples, although it is good for these changes to enable donors to be anonymous, I still have to ask why medically assisted fertilisation does not allow women without a partner and why this formal farce is prescribed in law to prove the extramarital community. Why these restrictions that redecorate the provisions of the organic laws that I mentioned earlier? I spoke about the various aspects of derogating human rights and promoting discrimination between individuals and individuals and groups in this bill this summer, and I will have to repeat these facts again and during the debate on this bill. The law continues to prohibit the freezing of mattresses, still does not predict what can be done for objective reasons in a process of transfer of covers. For example, in case of hyperstimulation when it's too dangerous for a woman, and therefore for the female to be transferred to the woman, the situation where the endometrial condition is and very likely there will be no implantation or, for example, a car accident and a woman has to go to surgery to save her life. The freezing of mattresses is prohibited for allegedly ethical reasons. The question arises, however, why in the preceding situations, since such traps must be cast under this law. In other words, for ethical reasons, it is absolutely unacceptable to freeze the cover, but it is not ethically unacceptable to throw, and to use the termology of my colleague and colleagues from HDZ and HSS to kill the embryos. Isn't that very, very hypocritical? In addition, what is allowed to fertilize only three egg cells in one procedure? What if these three cells stop developing? When a procedure is passed for women physically extremely painful stimulation in women's ovaries, there are not 20 ovaries left, but it is possible to use only three ova while others freeze. Such provisions make it much more difficult to fertilize, which should be the fundamental objective of the law, as well as the progressive increase of women’s chances of being unnecessarily exposed to hormonal stimulation in later life with cancer. Is that how women and generally human rights are protected? On this occasion, I would like to stress that I have been extremely provoked by the double criteria of the Ministry of Health and the general official of the ministry according to the alleged moral problem of freezing embryos of the Government I asked the question on which it is a logic for the minister of the human being, and I must point out that he himself said about this pay phone, and the same-time fetuses up to 3 months of age, and until then, according to the principle of right to select women in Croatia, an abortion is possible. Why aren't these fetuses human beings? I will now read to you as a contribution to the theatre of absurdities that the HDZ is turning into about the problem of medically assisted insemination, the answer I received a few days ago from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I will conclude my debate with this quote, because I think, by this Government's reply, I can most clearly illustrate all dilentism and hypocrisy both by the Government and the Ministry of Justice. And here it is, quoting: “The science has proved that the merger of male and female sex cells begins with life, and that fact has also been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is not a clear question of the distinguished MPs, which, by document, the Government of the Republic of Croatia distinguishes the fetus from the embryo. The Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the Minister of Health and Social Care is Mr.sc. Darko Milinović pointed out in the debate in the Croatian Parliament that the embryo is a human being, but he did not say that it is not acceptable to freeze embryos but because of the fact that there are alternative methods of storage of egg cells that produce acceptable results, and that religious, philosophical, moral and ethical issues exceed. Croatian legislation does not contain an explicit provision when human life begins, but contains provisions that protect the right to life of every human being. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states in Article 21 that every human being has the right to live and that there is no death penalty in the Republic of Croatia. Some laws regulate the protection of the right to live in certain situations. Thus, the Penal Code in Article 97 incriminates the unlawful termination of pregnancy in relation to third parties, who, contrary to the rules on the termination of pregnancy with or without its consent, commits, commits, or assists in the execution of an unlawful termination of pregnancy, while the Law on Health Measures for the free birth of children is governed by the permitted termination of pregnancy. That law, including the Law on Medical Insemination, does not determine when human life begins. Smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39580	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates and associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we held a debate two months ago on the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, representatives of this same ministry assured us that the law's version was perfect, immaculate. The explanation that has come to us about the changes is in paragraph two: "During the drafting of the rules and after consulting international institutions in the field of health care, the possibilities for certain improvements in the law have been observed, and therefore goes beyond... and complete the law." We do not know from this all the possibilities for certain improvements in the law are seen, we do not know and do not know whether they are all applied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also in these last two months since the law was passed to this day, the public has been very much involved in the debate on such a type of law, both professional and layman. But in that 2 month period, the same ministry did not consult with the international one, at the international level, with a profession from which it would probably in that width pro and counter-conclusion would satisfy very different settings and starting points, but it would be closer to those solutions that we all seek, which is to treat the disease in a way to help avoid its consequences. Of course, the minister also told us that this is incurable, which I have no doubt, I have no doubt that many other diseases are incurable, but we expect the profession of people who are suffering, for example. It does not deny insulin because it will not be cured, but it will allow them to do so because it will help them overcome their disease. Of course, colleagues and colleagues, that all questions related to procreation, to perse life, are complex questions. They're getting in the way of philosophy, ethics, medicine, worldview, so let me put it this way, there's no sphere of life in which life is not a key issue. In this debate, however, all these spheres and aspects cannot be entered. I would like to remain within what is human right, because the reproductive rights are exactly that, and you are, by this law, still denying the consumption of the right to choice, to decide, to use all the resources available today for medicine. In addition, each country is obliged and must enable its citizens and citizens to have maximum access to medical assistance in any case, and in this case you select it by law. You're also bringing in the profession that contrary to that part of the profession that you're going to be trying to freeze the mattresses, you're not doing it. You're talking about reduced cell counts, you're talking about women being exposed to a very traumatic, painful, and certainly also medically difficult re-stimulation procedure in several cases. What matters to the public, even for this House, is that this debate is going on. It's about the future. This was about why they're about years old when women make marriage, when men make marriage. So this question is also about infertility. Of course. Of course there's a hundred and one explanation. But also the question of how the state helps. Not only can the state establish, but it also enables young couples to come to apartments, loans to residential construction, employment, and jobs, as responsible parents expect it to have to create their own family. What is fundamental, and continues to be human rights, remains the question, the open question that women living alone are again excluded from a process that women have the right to do. They have to choose him, and they don't have to come into a situation where they pay themselves abroad with expensive funds. That's what's left open and we might be discussing it tomorrow. I do not believe that this authority and this structure are ready to come out of a framework that will allow citizens and citizens, so the treatment that deserves to be accepted as individuals and individuals and that they are accepted and when they decide to enter into another kind of common relations with marriage or be in an extramarital community. However much we discuss this matter, there is always one question left. And Galileo, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, did what he did at the end under the pressure of the Inquisition, but exiting said, "It's still moving." Well, I hope things keep moving around here and they won't stay on this, and there won't be women being denied their motherhood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39582	Yeah, let's move on. And it is up to the honourable representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today begins academic year, today our university dean spoke to the freshmans. I will tomorrow, on Monday with a fourth year of medicine, which is essentially a sensitive period of transition from one preclinical, anatomy, physiology to first contact with a patient, with a living person who needs help, ask for help. And what I tell these students is three rules of medicine. First of all, I'm taking niyl nights, first of all don't hurt. Second, right to diagnostic and therapeutic options, so right to quick, correct and accurate diagnostics and right to adequate therapy. And third, not least, right to the choice. And that's a rule that applies in Harvard, where the university started 15 days ago, in Zagreb, in all orderly states. Do not harm, do not submit to vain diagnostic or some other protocols, because especially if we are doing it out of academic significance and third choice right. During clinical work, the most important thing is to develop critical thinking, to develop skepticism, suspiciousness, to develop logical critical thinking, and that is the difference between politics. It's not all the way it says in the law, that life is something else. Not blindly accepting laws, not blindly accepting written and unwritten statements because then it's dogma, medicine is all but least dogma. And how students do it, doctors do it. They work by looking at literature, and they know that every five years most of our knowledge in biomedical is refreshed, changed and then changing guidelines and laws. It is extremely important to monitor literature, especially in Croatian native language, to write, to work public health actions on harmful habits, alcohol, smoking yesterday, the law on 0 passed three years ago, sexual education, asbestos which the previous minister allowed to produce, write in Croatian native language, warn citizens of what is a harmful habit, which is a professional disease and simultaneously monitor literature in English. And it's in magazines with a high and fact factor, with a high echo factor. Since I've been doing science, I've been through all the literature gynaecologically in these two months, nothing new in this field, anything new to change the law. Nothing. There's literature that's been before, but nothing new in three months. So why, why hasn't it been received three months ago, now some are blaming the profession, now we're boasting we've stimulated the profession, please nice proposings don't attack the waist. Our waist is great. My hospital KBC Zagreb was the eighth hospital in the world, not in the state, in the world that made the NPO. We were world Olympic champions, eighth hospital in the world, not eighth state, not eighth city, eighth hospital, and you can imagine how many hundreds of thousands of hospitals in the world exist. So you didn't encourage the profession, maybe the profession triggered a change of law, maybe the profession triggered a change of law, or you made a consensus, all of it legitimate, all of it fair, to be clear, it's all clean. But why are you calling us in two months, why are you calling this session, why you're spending money, why you're spending paper, why you're paying, I see travel expenses are being charged. Why sit down with the secretary of state all day instead of doing other jobs? What are you doing? I can't figure it out. And so, Mr. Vice President, in the last six years, from law to law, from decision to decision, a series of laws whose characteristics are insufficiently thoughtless, difficult to apply or hastily. Of course, some of the laws were a complete political agreement, and Sundays’ ban law was a political response. Okay, the law has been passed, and we've been praying to God that whoever suggested it should fall in the Constitutional Court, and the government is clean, and today we have a situation to do who will, whenever they want, wherever they want, on Saturdays and Sundays. Okay, that's a political deal, that's clear to you and me, that's fair, that's something that's clean. But what to do about the smoking ban law to turn to three medical laws, the Law on Zero Promises, the Law on smoking and the Law on Medical Aided Insemination. Hippocrates lived 456 years before Christ then said “One glass of wine for health, two for joy and three for disease. ” Hippocrates didn't know what was in the decilitre of wine, which is good for health, but the experience is clinically predictable. And we have a law banning 0 prominences in Croatia in a country of "thousands of islands", in a tourism that retreats in two to three years. Hippocrates didn't know and we know today what it is in a decilitre of wine and we know who and how we can recommend it. That's what I do for a living, so I can say that. The smoking ban law is me after five months, and yesterday we changed it to changes and supplements. I've been apologizing for a year, and I'm sure you know Mr. Secretary of State more precisely than I do, because you didn't come before your employees at the Ministry of Health and tell them again we're changing the laws. It's not easy for you. I know it, I know it well, I know what kind of man you are and I know it's not easy for you to say let's change the law again. And thirdly, the Law on Medical Insemination and Mr. Secretary of State are being replaced after exactly two months. Now, on that trail, I, as a citizen, as a doctor, as a parliamentary representative, have been asking myself, for a week now, what kind of message are we sending to our citizens, we parliamentary representatives, promoters, the majority of the Parliament and the parliamentary opposition. What message? To whom we send a message, to our children, to our grandchildren, to change the law after two months. I've never failed my exam, I've never failed a colloquium, I've finished first in a generation, and in the Assembly at a mature age, I'm a repeater. I'm not going to say mature age, moderate age, let's say the best age. This is where I fall every month, two. Repeat, what kind of message are we sending? Not that I'm a repeater, but I'm a repeater of a repeater. What kind of message we send to those we train, to whom we serve, to those of whom we've been chosen, perhaps you, Mr. Vice President, know that there may be something hiding or I don't know. We go on Wednesday, Thursday a few of us defend the colors of the Croatian Parliament, the state of Croatia at the European Sports Games I will play chess probably, or as a doctor I will take care of our parliamentarians. Perhaps this is a competition for Guines, perhaps this is a competition that parliament, which the government is proposing as quickly as possible, laws that will change as quickly as possible. Maybe this is a competition. Who's going to do more, who's going to change the laws faster? And if that's the competition, then tell us, okay, we're gonna race who's gonna change the laws faster, and we're gonna give you some hands. If it's not a Guines competition, then I'm asking you nicely to get to work. Of the 190 countries we are the first to regret, the first country at tax burden, we will become the first, very probably the first to rapidly change the law, and in the end we are competitive. I'd like to...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39584	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39585	I'm finishing Mr. Vice President, and I believe you'd like us to be the first in the index of happiness, according to the well-being index, which we can only do with the right laws and the right sublaws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39586	Thank you. It is much better to change the law than to insist badly on applying it. So let's move on with the individual discussion. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39587	Mr. Vice President, Mr. or Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to apologize in person. Namely, I want to apologize to all the citizens I represent here in this House that an hour ago I did not react sharply and immediately to a dangerous nonsense that was said here in these benches when a colleague found that the same or almost the same frozen tomb a few hours old, a few weeks or a child four years old. I expected that stupidity, but dangerous nonsense, would be reacted by the minister, the secretary of state or one of you, as harshly as you reacted to Mr. Pupovac's statement. A four-year-old frozen child would indeed be an experiment, absolutely inadmissible for any conviction. This is where we all kept our mouths shut. Let's get to a better subject or we'll start with the good news. A colleague of Ostojić asked what message we were sending earlier? Well, buddy, we're sending a message of hope. You know, I'm very pleased because 63 days ago my party, HNS, gave six amendments to a law that is now valid. They're all smoothly rejected. Now as many as two amendments have been incorporated into this proposal. It's my hope that in 63 days we'll have two more built-ins and that by Christmas we'll have one great law. So we're sending a message of hope. Now let me read again a sentence I've already read to my colleague Caparin in the replica on her presentation. Namely, one sentence reads in an old document: "I will determine my regulations according to my abilities and knowledge for the benefit of the patient." It is a sentence from the original Hippocratic oath that was later changed until we finally reached the present Geneva Convention. This means that hundreds and hundreds of years before the appearance of Catholics, Orthodoxs and Muslims, one wise man said: "All we know and all the possibilities that are available to us should be clearly given to the function of health and help the patient." My colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, after 2,000 and 400 years, are we still wondering if we can allow all the possibilities of today's biomedical science and medical profession to be put in place to protect the health of our sick? That's not good. Namely, I will return to the exhibit that we had in this House 63 days ago when, many of us, we warned of numerous failures regarding the bill we had on the benches. But what's the result? Today, the law returns to our benches in the parliamentary procedure after only two months. Because the fruit of such a way of working has experienced a political abortion, I cannot say it differently but a political abortion. If you representatives of the government and the Croatian Government are constantly returning these and similar laws to the Parliament with the aim of distracting the public from existential problems, from the affairs, which I don't know, uh, scandals, then I understand you, but I can't justify you. I'm not surprised to you colleagues from HDZ that you are unreservedly supporting every proposal from the government, you are thus supporting your government, you want to show that within the party there is one unity, but I am surprised at those who in this House provide you with such proposals of the law to win and most of them, I am surprised at them. I wonder colleagues and colleagues in the end, so I won't owe it, is it not illogical for a science minister to finance a number of research projects? Let's just examine, let's see, we're looking for ways to help with medically assisted insemination. We're investing huge funds in these research. Excellent results are being obtained, but another health minister says that what you've got we won't respect it and we won't make it available to our citizens, our patients. We're not going to put it into the law. That's what no country in the world does. In education, science invests in the well-being of citizens. Not for the partial well-being of citizens. What do you need from your colleagues and colleagues? And how long are we gonna work this way? I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39588	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39589	You're telling your colleague that it took the government 63 days to realize that your two amendments that you've been making to the first bill are good and now put them into your own bill. If 63 days ago they couldn't figure it out and they didn't want to install it, then that could be two reasons. The first reason is that they were simply unable to understand what was good, which is not that someone explained to them in these 63 days, and the second reason is that they were boastful. If they'd known it was good, but only because it came from the opposition ranks did they reject it. Whatever the reason they did what they did, we have an unnecessary discussion today. And if they had listened to the opposition proposal, they wouldn't have to change the law today. But that may be of little importance, however, as the government treats the Parliament and the parliamentary minority. Disrespecting today's opposition demands, and perhaps under public pressure they will respect them over the next 63 days. They will, in 126 days, go to such a possible new change, make it impossible for couples in Croatia to do so, who want to come to the offspring. Again, I wonder only two reasons why they would do this either ignorance and today, or the boast of this time not to you, not to the Parliament, not to the opposition, but to the people, the young people, who want to have children, and they don't allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39590	Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39591	I don't believe it's any other reason, but I'm deeply convinced it's both reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39592	Thank you. Replica second, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39593	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here is my colleague Doric, and I am encouraged by your thinking which is a message to the public and colleagues of course Stojić. We're always talking about what's the message to the public. And what message is to those who need such an operation, such a single procedure, please be nice. I haven't heard anyone here today say anything to these people, even though we know how sensitive they are, how sensitive they are, and what kind of attention they need to approach this problem. I think the message should be, to give one objective and correct and quality information to these people, to give what the waist means, that it's also the point to give. It's not a message to the public that on the cover of a few children's press, so please, how nice is that, what kind of message is that? Let's think that way. Well, here's the part I think is one objective and correct piece of information and one that needs a procedure like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39594	I'll thank you right away. Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39595	The message to those in need of medical assistance is that by law we limit all medically beneficial forms of assistance. Only some can use, the rainbows can't use, because the law doesn't allow them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39596	Thank you. And now it is up to each individual debate, Honorary Representative Bruno Kurelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. You can see for yourself that the time has passed for speakers, and probably for you listeners, so the concentration will be lower. I'll be as brief as possible. As you know, as you yourself have heard, we are now on repair. We're at the repair of the law that was passed less than 60 days ago. A law that, in my opinion, was a mix of compromises at that moment of loose consultation of the profession, the strong impregnation of politics and the permeation of worldly control, which often separates the civilization's reach of time in which we live. The colleagues here today have brought out a whole series of data, statistical indicators, value courts, why changes are insufficient. But given the environment or civilizational achievements that we live in today, I ask you, why do women living in a marriage or out of wedlock not have the possibility of medically assisted insemination? This is also discriminatory in many qualified opinions. That's what the lawyer for gender equality was talking about. To the soul this law in the Constitutional Court, so we'll see what comes out of it. I must point out that some of the bill's proposals in previous years have respected and put into the context of their content medically assisted fertilization only for a woman, but given this opinion that I have made here, I return not to the discriminatory basis of this, but as a man surrounded by a daily woman who testifies that children can successfully grow up in various family models, but also the absence of a family. Many children live with only one parent, and based on the existence of both parents, it is not possible to bring about a child’s happiness. The colleagues in these amendments to the law remain a ban on freezing the embryo. I'm really not going to elaborate this because this is what we're talking about today, both pro and vice versa. But those who remained in this opinion often referred to science, to the profession, so let me simplify it. In these three years, the profession has really progressed particularly in this area. But we and the public before this law was passed in July we had a witness to our professional frontmen from this area as it was. This is the secretary of state showing reports from the American Oncology Society in October 2008 and showing thought from May of the report to the European Society of Reproductive Medicine. But it remains for two months until the passing of this excess law, that our expert frontmen tell these lawmakers the profession has gone away here are the gentlemen so far ahead in these three months. Because these three months really haven't happened. That's it, that's it. One more thing. Croatia, as we know, is marked by a strong fall in birth, has a very poor demographic picture. That's why I personally welcome everything that can contribute to solving this problem. This law is not only for the sake of profession or for the work of the conservative or liberal body of Croatian society, this law should primarily intend to meet the expectations of those who want parenting and their biological need for family expansion. Because no matter how many people claim that a desire for parenthood can be realized by adopting children, and we've heard it here today, I think it's just one link in the parenting chain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39598	Thank you. It's next, the distinguished representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Discuss this complex and sensitive topic of medical insemination can be discussed with several aspects. Today, there have been attempts, especially from a professional point of view, on which the Minister of Health has particularly insisted, explaining why the basic law itself is a fundamental law, and then these amendments and additions to that law, which is why they are good, acceptable and which is why they can neither be different nor better. However, I think at least I failed to convince those expert arguments, so I would not have entered them but would have kept myself on a single segment of this topic, which is a segment of how to justify or how until now it has been justified to adopt this law from the aspect of the obligations that we have to comply with the acquis of the European Union and there seems to me to be quite an exaggeration. In fact, the legal acquis of the European Union itself, that common European regulation requires only two things from Member States to do in their national legislation. It requires national legislation to regulate this area of medical insemination, means that it is not left to the verse, that it is not left unregulated, but does not speak in detail of how this regulation should look. And secondly, what the legal property of the European Union requires of national legislation, to regulate the area of quality assurance, means the security of the procedures themselves, which is partly in this fundamental law and done. However, the problem seems to me to be for our proposer, for the Government, for the Ministry of Health, beginning precisely because of this fact, because of this fact that at European level there is no clear regulation on what has to be done or not to be done in national legislation. And then in the area left to the national promoters, I simply think they've lost the right thread and the right purpose of passing this law. But I am afraid that this is not only a problem for the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health, but also for the whole process of harmonising our legislation with the European one. The biggest problems arise in situations like this when we do not have a uniformly prescribed regulation that we can simply rewrite or transpose into our legislation and when everything remains somewhere at the level of our legislative imagination or legislative imagination. Here simply on these topics does not help to list, show, wave with paper that lists what the country is and how it regulated the field of medical fertilization, because it simply does not have the same explanation. Yes, there are maybe ten countries that have done one thing and six that have somehow solved the matter differently, some that have not entered the area at all even though they had to under European regulations. Therefore, no such argument will strengthen the arguments or prove that this is exactly how our law, the fundamental one or the one about the changes, that it is only possible, that it is right. I think it's a missed opportunity here to do something else, to do in a situation where there is no, when we are left with space for our specific and our regulation that is tailored to our needs. We had to take this opportunity to do something that is at the highest levels of standards in these areas, and we could have done that by starting with the fundamental question of who needs this law, which is why we are making it, that we were wondering whether we could help these laws to people who need it, whether their human rights, their right to choose, could lead to the highest possible level of assistance that can be expected from the legislators. We simply do not have the courage, we do not have the knowledge to put our legislation at the very top and European or global quality of regulation of these laws, but we are always looking for and trying to hide behind some of the already existing solutions. I'm saying that the Minister of Health failed to convince me that this is all about issues of science and best practice, because simply all the arguments that have been made are not convincing. The freezing of egg cells was talked about, waving arguments from some of the scientific works of Italians, for example. confirm 60 % of the success of the procedure in the frozen egg cell. So when that argument might not have been enough, then an American source was found talking about 96% of success, and then it wasn't enough to find another of 97% of success, so simply, then again with our experts on this area, our profession when it comes to these and those attitudes, interpretations, or even of the same persons, of the same experts. Therefore, I am simply not convinced that this law was done on the basis of best practice or on the basis of best expert assessments. That's why I'm afraid such a very selective selection of professional arguments can't help here again. It reminds me of a friend of mine who was diagnosed with a disease that banned him from eating and drinking almost everything he loved, and then at one point I found him eating beans that he was naturally forbidden for the disease, but he was all happy because he said I found a doctor who told me that I could still eat and now I'm only looking for another doctor to tell me that I can have a Gemist drink and I don't need anything anymore. It's about the same here with the arguments of the barat profession. I'd like it to be in this law if we were, too, if our proposer had come from setting new European world standards that would then allow him to do something that he obviously missed this time. He missed the words from a state in which he would be remembered as a minister who had shown sufficient or high levels of indifference to propose a law that would be maintained for more than a few months or a year instead of opening legal solutions for the real needs of people being remembered as a minister who set standards at a global level that other ministers or countries could only be very difficult or almost never or ever reach. Therefore, I am afraid that even these amendments on the additions of legal solutions that are a relief, repairing conditions that can be said to be taking a step forward but, in my view, are still an insufficient step because simply such insufficient steps cannot be fixed something that has been wrongly set since the beginning. And finally, in discussions both in the Parliament and in this assembly, but also in the public media, there were many sometimes overexplained explanations or thesis of what is really going on here. There were those who were trying to make all of this a political conflict, as political competition, even as political competition. There were those who spoke about the left and right conflict in a political sense, ideological sense, the conflict between conservatives and more liberal approaches to these problems, even the differences in religious, moral, ethical views and worldview. Maybe it's all there is in this case. But it seems to me that there is still a dominant each other, another reason, another question about what is happening here. In my view, however, this is primarily about civilization, about civilization progress, about one capacity, I would say the will, the courage to make in our mental context shifts that go towards accepting the world's most valuable and best standards. So, I think this is about whether or not we're ready to put ourselves on top of world solutions and not just being a country that follows someone, but a country that opens new paths especially on such important topics as formal insemination. But it's still an important topic like human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39600	Thank you. And the esteemed protégé Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39601	Thank you very much, Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today, a lot has been quoted, and here I will, quote from Minister Milinovic's media, saying, "I think we have made a legal proposal acceptable and conservative part of society that is the largest part of Croatia's citizens, but also a liberal part of the citizenship," the health minister said. As an example of the conservative part of the law, he stated that he was one of the conditions for artificial insemination. While the example of the liberal part of allowing the donation of the egg pages is permission for both men and women. While, for example, some European Union countries have the ability to donate only one sex, media reports say. Then, asked whether such a legal proposal would be discriminated against by single Minister Milinovic said it was not discriminatory, and as it says so far, we had no law better than none. That's what we heard today in a few discussions. By entering into force, the new law almost suspended the practice of medical insemination in clinics because no implementing acts were adopted and no one knew exactly what they should or should not do under what conditions. Phase two. The health minister says there will only be changes if there are major difficulties in its application. And it's said it's not an experiment. My colleagues and colleagues, that is, experimenting with laws. There were also names mentioned today, with all due respect for all colleagues. We have received from both the profession and the associations and the citizens of the letter and the request to respond to this law, and that is why we are doing so. These are colleagues and colleagues who represent and warn that only three egg cells are the key problem of changing the provision that allows for fertilisation. Here, by this amendment, thank God that at least something has changed, and that part that contains discriminatory provisions that were contrary to the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. However, there is a ban on freezing the embryo, and I wonder in one place it says that marriage mates can withdraw consent and give up the procedure until the traps have been entered into the body of the woman. The question is, what about the cover or the traps in this case since it's not allowed to freeze embryos? Then, for the implementation of the procedure, there will be a need for strong consensus, among other things, according to the proposal, not enough for a specialist who should carry out extra-body fertilisation to recommend this, but also a second opinion, therefore a specialist from another institution. The question is, why is fertilization only three egg cells? It is known that in the best fertilisation period a woman is close to 60% of the egg cells is aneuploid. This means that it can have a deficiency or excess chromosomes, and in elderly patients, that's, of course, more pronounced. In such egg cells, there is either no fertilisation at all or embryos that cannot lead to the successful birth of a healthy child. If we add to that the mistakes that can be related to sperm, because of course they can carry part of an euploid, we actually get to a maximum of thirty percent of possible quality embryos from the number of egg cells obtained. Also, the quality of the egg cells available today is impossible to recognise, and as colleagues say, the waist says that we judge them exclusively by appearance. As for the freezing of egg cells, it is not only about equipment and knowledge, but about the fact that it is still an experimental method after almost 10 years of application. Egg cells, as colleagues say, are the largest cells in the body and have an extremely unfavourable ratio of membrane and volume and water content to freeze. Because of all these characteristics, only 40% of which are then fertilized after defrosting. These are the results of the most successful lab, not with us, but outside. Today, hyperstimulation was still mentioned on several occasions, how severe it is, how severe it is for women, or hormonal stimulation to which one reacts sharply and develops some of the degrees of hyperstimulation. Comrades and colleagues, such patients should not return embryos during the same cycle because pregnancy makes this condition worse. For this reason, all embryos are frozen in such patients and returned only after a few cycles when the reaction and the consequences of course are completely calmed down. And I'm still unclear about the rules on licensing of institutions, what's going to happen to institutions that are doing this activity so far? What will be the work permits? Will it be just the conditions of space, equipment and results? Also today, someone has wondered what is today a message to the public, which is a message to women, or partners with such problems. I would say that the confusing message, not just the message to the public, is the message to the people who have these problems, but also since we highlighted today's conflicting opinions from the profession, I would also repeat that it is possible to devalue the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39602	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Darko Milinovic, Minister of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I want to thank everyone for today's debate on the Law on Medical Insemination, and today's debate has shown how difficult this is, in fact, philosophical and religious and moral and every other issue. And this debate today has shown why 30 years no one has had the strength to touch this. I heard and, of course, that's what you do when it comes to the profession, of course there are sometimes different opinions in the profession, but I was talking about the consensus of the profession, so the top 20 experts dealing with this problem in Croatia with international participation, and they really supported this law by consensus. I'm hoping that, let's think about it, so we've got some amendments. The government will take these amendments seriously. But I will also conclude that once again I would like to support these amendments to the Law on Medical Insemination, because they are indeed a step forward. I also said this in my opening speech to make it easier for those who have problems, those who have problems with medical fertilisation, or pregnancy, to make it easier for them to have access to the Croatian health system that deals with this problem. There may have been some elevated tones, but that's a good debate. That's right. I can't accept anyone's claim that freezing egg cells is an experimental method. I'm maybe, even if I'm someone of my own. But that's who I am. So emotional. If I may have hurt someone that way or someone misunderstood my emotional performance, if I offended someone, I apologize to him. But what I was talking about today is all true, everything is backed up by the profession, but I cannot accept that this is an experimental method that has been implemented in five European Union countries, but for the last 5 years, and in Croatia, five years ago, a process of freezing egg cells is being carried out. I am convinced that we will overcome our differences. I am convinced that this House will indeed support these amendments to the law in order to make medical services available as easily as possible in this context to couples with these problems. And in conclusion, why wouldn't Croatia accept that we forbid the freezing of mattresses without having, as the waist says, a good alternative. Then it would be something else. But why not use that alternative beyond moral, ethical, religious, philosophical, personal questions? I am indeed, once again calling on this House of High to overcome the colossal or political interests, but this is indeed a law that must not be politicized. I am convinced that, when the technical conditions are achieved, we will vote this law, because it would not be good if we did not vote it, because then it remains the law that I will say, which really makes it difficult for the medical insemination to be made available to couples who are in the extramarital community, and so I think it would be good to vote as quickly as possible for these amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39604	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. This concludes at all today's session and I announce that on Wednesday at 9:30 we will continue with a point under regular number 21, which is the Final Proposal of the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 430. Thank you very much and good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39605	The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Insemination was an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 445. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The joint amendments were submitted by SDP and HNS representatives clubs and by HSLS, SDAH and SDSS representatives. I would point out that the amendments to the HSLS and SDSS Club are not in line with Article 163(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and therefore on amendments to the Club of Representatives of HSLS, the SDSS will not vote. The above Article of the Rules of Procedure provides that amendments may only be submitted to the articles covered by the proposed amendments and amendments. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments made by SDP and HNS representatives' clubs. Minister, Mr. Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39606	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39607	First, an indication of the name of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39608	The Legislative Committee also believes that the name of the law cannot be changed but that a new law should be passed in order to change the name of the law, and also the argument that it is contrary to the applicable European Union title is not true because the European Commission has given a positive indication of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39609	Thank you. On behalf of the club? No objections. Therefore, this amendment is not accepted. So I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the following paragraph 2 is added:
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39610	This article was also not the subject of the amendment, you told the Rules of Procedure that this amendment will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39611	This one's fine, but these others aren't. This shall be referred to in Article 6 which shall be amended in Article 55a.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39612	This amendment is not accepted because, according to the core of the law, we do not have the possibility of freezing or freezing embryos. And given that, we cannot accept that all egg cells are fertilized in one procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39613	A club? Here you are, Madam Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39614	I am sorry, Mr. Minister, that you did not take the last chance to help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are being treated for infertility and to ensure something that has been provided by many of your colleagues who are health ministers in the European Union, which is a gold standard in medicine for freezing embryos. What you're doing right now is some kind of freezing of egg cells where doctors point all the egg cells, take three of those in their opinion, throw the rest into the trash can. It's something we've received as information from patients who have recently been accessing processes of medically assisted insemination. You are one of the few ministers who banned and made it impossible for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to use all those methods of treatment that Croatian health care can do and which did so until you as a health minister banned it by your amendments to the law. What's important is that you have to respect the Patients' Rights Act, which says patients have the right to choose their way of treatment that allows them to be treated and can be implemented by Croatian doctors. Therefore, we asked our amendment on behalf of the HNS and SDP to leave it with something that would be the decision of the people being treated for infertility. So they can decide whether to freeze only egg cells or to freeze embryos. Once again, Mr. Minister, the freezing of mattresses is a gold standard in medicine everywhere in the world, everywhere in Europe is just not in Croatia since you are a minister. And I will finally tell you because these cosmetic changes to the SDP club will not take part in the vote of this rigid law that goes to the health of patients and goes to the harm of the future of the Republic of Croatia because we will not get the number of children we could have with the freezing of embryos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-25-0.u39615	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? The amendment was not accepted. I am voting in accordance with Article 226. The rules of procedure for the adoption of this law require a majority of all MPs, 77 votes. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Insemination. Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm asking for a result. The law was adopted by a majority of 77 votes, 1 abstentions and 2 votes against, together with the accepted amendments that have never been accepted. Thank you very much.
