ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34595	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, today we actually have three laws in front of us that belong to the justice system. The debate on the Law on Courts and the State Judicial Council will be united in both the debate and the debate, and after that a new Law on Administrative Disputes will be presented. In order to adapt to the standards of the European Union in the area of justice, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a strategic study on the creation of uniform, objective and transparent criteria for entering a judicial and state-level law profession on 19 December. The amendments to the Law on Courts and the State Judicial Council shall implement the measures and activities provided for in this strategy. The State School for Judicial Officials, which will be passed and a special law, is established to acquire the additional knowledge and skills needed for the judicial and state-run lawyer's call, and to achieve greater professionalisation and strengthening of judicial officials' independence. After a judicial examination, candidates for judges and state lawyers report to a public school ad for judicial officials and join the entrance exam. The choice of candidates for state school is completely objective and transparent. It is based on points reached on a judicial and reception exam. During the school, which involves mostly practical work, students have the status of senior judicial advisor. After successfully finishing state school, candidates are named for positions. This procedure of entering the judicial profession will apply from 1 January 2014, and until then the necessary organisational preparations will be carried out. The same principles of full objectivity and transparency will also apply to the progress of judges. The stabbing shall be carried out in accordance with the criteria for the evaluation of judges brought forward by the State Judicial Council. The Judicial Council determines the number of points reached by all candidates. The State Judicial Council shall decide on the choice of judges based on a ranking list based on points reached. In order to ensure its full independence in accordance with European Union standards, it will also need to change the way in which the State Judiciary Council is elected. The choice of members of the State Judicial Council shall be governed by the Constitution. As part of constitutional changes, it will be necessary to ensure that its members are directly elected by judges, i.e. teachers of law schools, and not by the Parliament. This is not a mistrust in the Parliament and you respected MPs and MPs, but a consistent understanding of the division of power. Once again, the Law on Courts also seeks to objectify the election of the President of the Courts. The candidates for the President of the Court should submit with their application and the Court's work programme in the coming period. Finally, the Law on Courts, in accordance with the amendments to the Law on Administrative Disputes, which you will hear about immediately after this item of the agenda, as judicial bodies controlling the work of the administration, provide for administrative courts as first-degree courts and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia as a second-degree court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34596	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34597	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. We will support it because it is on track and in line with the Strategy for Justice Reform, with an action plan with the Justice Reform Strategy adopted by the Croatian Government, and it is also the consequence of strategic studies for the creation of unique, objective and transparent criteria for entering the judiciary and state-level law enforcement profession and the establishment of a state-run school for judicial officials adopted by the Croatian Government in December 2008 and the implementation proposed by the Croatian Parliament for approval through the adoption of amendments and addition of these laws. As is generally known, one of the basic measures and objectives of the judicial reform strategy is the independence of judges, the independence of courts. When we talk about independence, we need to think about political independence, media independence, large capital independence, and in order for the judge to be sure of himself above all, he needs to be well educated and has to be the most qualitative legal cadre. On this trail, the adoption of a series of amendments to laws and sublegislative acts already during 2007 and, above all, the adoption of a new Law on trainees and judicial examinations in 2008 created a quality legislative framework and measures of the action plan continue to take place systematically to monitor the implementation and implementation of these laws. And we also expect from the Ministry of Justice one analysis of the application of these legal and sublegal regulations during 2009. That is how we have circled the legislative framework to say so until the stage of entry into the exercise and completion of the exercise. This law now but also another law which is too bad that we don't have it now because a series of issues that are to be opened today in the debate will be issues that we wouldn't have together with these two laws at the same time and the Law on the State School for Judicial Officials, so we wouldn't be able to say things like that today, but I believe since it's the first reading of both of these laws that until the final proposal in the procedure before this House will be the State School Act, and then we'll know the criteria that remain questionable here and these are the criteria and way of choosing candidates to go and enroll in that state school. Of course, after the Law on Courts has been amended in a way that introduces a unique methodology for assessing the work of a judge, and I have to say to the judges there are a lot and a lot of complaints about how they work, how long we have the length of the proceedings. I am here to say that there is almost no profession here or no job paid from a state budget that is so measurable and so subject to evaluation that it is a judicial business especially after the adoption of new framework criteria, after the adoption of a methodology for the assessment of the conduct of a judicial duty, etc. What is proposed as the main newspaper by this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council? So, above all, the obligation to the State Judiciary Council to request no more opinion and the Ministry of Justice, no longer the opinion of the judicial councils, but the assessment of the conduct of the duties. At first glance it may be a change in one word but the change is great. So, the opinion was something that was subjective, a guideline has been made so far for the uniformity of giving an opinion to the Judiciary Council in all courts. However, they were still unequal. The judicial councils have been left with talks with candidates who are largely unbroken and the opinion is in the sphere of something that can be subjective, which may be the result of lobbying towards the judicial councils because in the end this opinion is the result of voting or voting. The assessment of the conduct of a judicial duty is quite different, it is an assessment that is made according to quite objective and measurable criteria. So I think it's an extremely important newspaper. What in this bill is the first reading, and then we can make observations that we hope will be and adopted by the final proposal says that the Ministry of Justice will request from the judicial councils an assessment of the conduct of the judicial duty on all candidates who meet the conditions and the opinion of the President directly of the High Court. Here, I am expressing this one question why the president of a directly higher court for reasons that the President of a directly higher court is having difficulty having insight other than statistics and that statistics can be obtained without his opinion. Therefore, the opinion may have a better view of the candidate and the knowledge of the work of the candidate president of the court in which the candidate worked until then. It is also determined here that a list of points based on the points that the judge has made and on the basis of an opinion for the purpose of full objectivity and transparency here should be the ratio as much as in that final ranking list some kind of president's opinion and how many objective criteria, so the number of points. What is important here is to note that the provision of this law states that the Ministry of Justice will open an internal tender, the internal tender will be attended by judges who have already been appointed to fill the judges' seat within the judicial system, and after that, when unfulfilled seats are left, the competition will be opened and people will then be admitted to the state school for judicial officials. Do we know, we've heard that the duration of education and education practical in a state school will last for two years then the question is, what about this time when it's a free place and you're just taking someone to a judicial school who's only two years from now to become a judge. So I think that the Ministry of Justice would have to work long-term in advance, assume how many open-ended venues there will be and then think about it before that at the moment when the courts are free to have judges for those places. So, I said, we expect the law as it says there will be a special law to determine the structure, the work programme and the establishment of a state school. The bill says that the appointment of candidates who graduated from the state school for judicial officials is decided by the council for judges of a particular court. The criteria need to be established here. On the basis of some of the criteria, the Council must decide to do so and, therefore, this article should be complemented by the success criteria following the examination at the national school, etc. What I am still trying to warn one by one is not a good nomotechnical solution, which is that, according to this proposal, the amendments and additions remain that they will insist on two contradictory provisions of Article 16. So I think it's better to have a nomotechnical solution to amend Article 16 to add new articles 16a.b.,c.d. and that, in the transitional, final provisions, it is said to enter into force in 1.1.2014 for understandable reasons as it is necessary to establish and prepare the work and programme of the state school. So, finally, as regards the Law on the State Judicial Council of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, it supports it with the proposals of these considerations, these remarks. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, it is a logical consequence, therefore, also in the laws on courts should be incorporated into these provisions which are planned by the government's strategic study on the state school for judicial officials. Similarly, its amendments and additions are necessary because of the Administrative Court Act which will be on the agenda behind this point. As it is a law which defines the deliriousness and jurisdiction of courts and the organisation of courts, it is necessary to amend the law within the meaning of the Law on Administrative Disputes, as a solution to organisational issues. It opens here to determine the jurisdiction of the administrative court, but that will be the case when we talk about this other law and we will look back and in that sense we will need to amend this other law. As far as the Courts Act is concerned, I must further find the text, so there are criteria for the conduct of judicial duties, who can be and how the judge is. Now we're putting a condition for the election into judicial duty, a completed judicial school. It is a condition for judges of municipal, criminal courts, for judges of the county, the High Commercial, the High Administrative Court, the administrative court. Only a person who has completed school, a state school for judicial officials and a certain number of court staff may also be elected. What I am opening as a question is a provision on the conditions for the appointment of a Supreme Court judge. This law states that, in addition to the conditions for the Supreme Court judge, he may also be a selected person, a graduate lawyer with 20 years of experience after a judicial examination which is a respected lawyer. What does a respected lawyer mean? Who will determine, the State Judiciary Council, who is respected, who is not respected, therefore, that is one subjective and totally non-transparent criterion. And that is also how we introduce a provision whereby the Supreme Court judge can be a person who doesn't have a day of judicial training. So far, the current law envisioned this was exclusively for university professors, legal sciences with 15 years of experience. Now this is spreading, therefore, no more conditions for this scientific degree, so it generally extends to prominent lawyers with a passed judicial exam. This could be one day in our opinion when the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has perhaps 5 judges, when it deals only with the legal position, by unifying the caselaw today when it judges as a second-degree court in all criminal proceedings in which the first-degree court is a county court, I find it entirely inappropriate that there may be a select person who has not passed a state school and has no day of experience in court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34598	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34599	Mr. President, Mr. Minister with his associates. These two laws we're currently discussing are more or less so. We finally came to the point that we've been discussing for many years, and that's how we deal with the problem of non-functioning or the poor functioning of the judiciary. We've done it in various ways, we've written various action plans, we've changed the number of courts' seats, but we haven't dealt with a key problem yet, and that's the quality of judges. By the year 2000, most of us believed that in the 1990s, the Croatian judiciary was devastated, that without criteria and with different suspicious criteria people came to the judges and on the night between 3rd and 4th January 2000, it was cemented. This situation has been cemented, and we have been fighting everyone with our responsibility and for our part of the act or indemnity, we are struggling with the problem of the quality of the trial, namely to be absolutely precise, the quality of the judges who judge. That is why the judiciary is also perceived as absolutely the most corrupt by citizens. That is why we have this kind of problem that we have in reforming and harmonising the judiciary with some fundamental criteria that would allow us to qualify within the European Union and therefore there are so many resistances within the judiciary that are gradually, because it is obviously very gradual, reforms that would start to take into account objective criteria, therefore quality criteria in the choice of judges and state lawyers entering the profession. And on the other hand, in the advancement of judges in the profession. Both these laws, therefore, and the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council, which so far proved to be at least questionable in its work and criteria, are even in public explanation of its criteria based on family characteristics rather than on any objective indicators. Therefore, both the law should be seen in the context of our negotiating position for Chapter 23 in negotiations with the European Union, the judiciary and fundamental rights. Why do I say that? Because we may not be fully aware that what we have written in the negotiating position is a commitment that we have made formally, so everything that is written in the negotiating position we must not only legal but also start to implement before it comes into consideration to conclude negotiations in this chapter, and that means in general. So let me say something that we wrote in a negotiating position that's been accepted, completed, and we just need to get an invitation to be sent. We have written something a little more concrete than what is written in these two laws when it comes to the selection and evaluation of judges and those who enter the profession and those who advance. Therefore, in its negotiating position explicitly or openly, it clearly and unequivocally states that the results of the national school exam will form a ranking list of candidates for the appointment of court and state-level lawyers. Therefore, neither an assessment nor an opinion nor a methodology. What's this about? It is that it is necessary to establish and these two laws must do so, and in the opinion of the HNS Club they do not do so clearly and explicitly enough. It is, therefore, that instead of thinking, relatedness, friendship, subjective impression and everything else that has been used so far as criteria are also used for the entry of judges into the profession and for the advancement of judges to establish objective criteria that are based on the test results instead. People take the first judicial exam, take the entrance exam to state school, get tested at state school, take finals at the state school. They're all exams. All those exams get grades. So the first change and what it can achieve is the first thing that this assessment is based on something objective with criteria equal to everything. They all appear on the test or on the exam, responding to the test and it's a composite score on the tests is their overall score. And secondly, it doesn't matter much if everyone doesn't know what grade it is. In other words, if I don't know, let's say my colleague Mimic is in a position above me. Therefore, he has the advantage of reporting to a judicial post. Therefore, this ranking should first be based on objective indicators, which are evaluations on tests and others, should be published on the Internet. Because if it's not her on the Internet then it's totally no matter if that list exists because there's no way to control whether or not to respect the factual rankings that have been achieved based on evaluations, so objective test assessments, but of course everyone can automatically interpret it, and none of the candidates have the opportunity, and that means the public, there's no way to control whether these ranks are respected. So do the rankings that we got as candidates based on the test scores, do you respect that. Therefore, both this law is trying in the opinion of the HNS Club to go in that direction, but not to be seen too much. So they go in the direction of firstly, setting up some objective assessment, but it is not clearly said that the State Judiciary Council is required to take into account the assessment which is based on the tests that people received and the judicial examination. Therefore, based on the assessment of the knowledge they have received in the process of their qualification for judicial calling. And it is not said anywhere that what we think is also important is that the ranking list that will be established on the Internet will be available to people who have competed and who are judged to see who has the advantage over what knowledge and results they have achieved. These two elements seem to say let's say in these laws, but as it is known if we want to change something then it's much more likely that there will be momentum in the logic of things. Therefore, if it is not made clear that this criterion must be respected on the other hand that it has to be made public, then, by intensity, only suggesting it will not happen in our opinion. This is a crucial moment. If we humans are not ready now and are able to face the truth that from the economy to beyond, nothing will work until the foundation of the rule of law, which is the functioning of the judiciary does not work, and we agree more or less that this is a problem and not only in Croatia but also beyond. Therefore, agreeable and wider that this does not work in Croatia and if we are not ready to break at this time and demand to use it will be on long-term objective criteria anyway. We don't have a chance to solve this problem. That it will be on a long-term basis is seen by the fact that everything comes into force on 1 January 2014 because people don't have a chance to finish state school first. But in any case, it certainly won't be some dramatic direct shock for the judiciary that you might need, but it'll be a very gradual change that will give your results, which I know, maybe in ten years. Certainly seven, eight years until the first real results are seen. But let's at least have results then, that at least then we can say the criterion that they're objective and can't be named by the grandmother and by the uncles by the judges as he seems. And secondly, I know what my score is with regard to my colleagues who also passed exams and tested themselves. Therefore, there is an integrated control mechanism for whether these criteria are respected or not. If the criteria are not published, then of course there is little chance that they will, so if the ranking list is not published there is little chance that it will be respected. We, I warn you once again, have taken that obligation and there is no one we can deceive. So, we've taken the obligation in the negotiating position that we have here and that will stand as an obligation for us permanently. So until we do that, we can't finish that part of the job. I think it is in the light of this law, including one and the other, but especially this on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council, that in some ways the argument has been missed, and perhaps because of that, it is not so clear what the HNS Club should say that we are doing this because of the decisions and the Council of Europe directive, etc. We don't do this for them. We should never enter the European Union, but we must do this, because this country cannot go further with the judiciary as it is now and this is a minimum that we must do regardless of any Europe. Therefore, the reason for this is not Europe. Europe is only helping us, even now that we have said it in the negotiating position, it is helping us to force ourselves to do what we have committed ourselves to and to do. Therefore, on behalf of the HNS Club, I ask the Minister and his associates to consider these two key matters in our opinion, because the Law on Courts is then only a course of implementation and coordination with what is being said in the Law on the State Judiciary Council. That in its business of preparing these legal proposals for second reading, the following logic which one law has and which club of the HNS as a logic absolutely supports and it is absolutely inevitable and necessary to do so. But by following that logic, they introduce two clear things that we have committed ourselves to in a negotiating position, and these are criteria that are an assessment and a commitment. Nowhere does the HNS Club write in the following reading if it does not give such an amendment here, the obligation of the State Judicial Council to take into account the assessment, hence the combined assessment of all the tests that man has passed and the examination he has passed, and that ranking list must be published and must be available to all who have been tested. If that's not there, this is a colleague and colleague of the hot water. If that's what it's all about, it's judicial reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34600	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. So will Mrs. Anticevic Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34601	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the beginning, I should say that the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts on which I will say something to the SDP club supports, and all in all. But only the path he was chosen. So we think the path is well chosen, but this is how many holes and hoods are placed on the road. Why? In fact, we do not dispute that it has already been 20 years of an independent Republic of Croatia and that the entire state, the whole society, is burdened by the situation in the judiciary and the judiciary and that it is high time to change the administrative trial of the Republic of Croatia to give the administrative courts full jurisdiction in protecting the interests of citizens and legal persons, so all who address the public administration or the state administration. This is a way to achieve in a certain, secure way the depolitisation of public administration, i.e. to reduce the dependence of the public administration on the executive function of the Government or the ministers who manage the state administration. Because the final decision belongs to the court. Of course, we support it with all our heart, but there's a lot of traps there. One way is to get to the courts, to the judges, to choose judges and when to come. We believe that this is where the courts are scheduled to be established in '12, or '14. and that the appointment of judges is subject to education, and first of all to law school and traineeship, and then to a state or judicial exam and to a judicial academy, and then to a state school for state officials. In the SDP, too, we believe that it is all good, but that it does not decide on the character and morality that is applied. This may help, but if only schooling were the reason for the situation in our judiciary, then the problem could easily be solved. This suggests that there is a lack of trust in both law schools and in the training system through work or traineeship, as well as a system of state, i.e. judicial examination and judicial academy. Does that mean when we appoint a judge after all this, so after he's been learning for 25 years, his problem of knowing he's been solved? Is the moral problem solved yet? Is it known that knowledge in the administration or the right goes out faster than in other sciences? It's all true. That's why we think there's both a hole and a hoodster, so you need to be careful with that. Secondly, it would be more important to have a system that enables and ensures permanent education of judges, continuous education. But let us return to the very proposal of the law as it is given here, in particular the provisions of Article 5 of the Law, that is, Article 23 of the Amendment and the addition of the Law on Courts. The very interesting solution offered is that administrative courts decide to sue individual decisions of public-legal authorities. I'd like to, and that would be a minimum, if at least defined what public-legal bodies are and to be introduced and to at least, if it can't be defined, to make a list. We have a fresh memory of whether the parliament's decisions can be decided by the administrative court. This remained to be hung as a legal issue, but in practice it was resolved according to the will of the ruling. Then the issue of constitutionality and the legality of general acts. Such authority of the administrative court, the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, in my court, is contrary to Article 128 of the current Constitution. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia shall decide on the consent of the law with the Constitution and decide on the consent of other regulations with the Constitution and the law. So, by proposing the law, we define a constitutional provision that exclusively gave that authority to the Constitutional Court. It's exclusive. There's no way to interpret it differently. If we know that there is not a word about what composition the High Court Council would decide on constitutionality or on the legality of a general act, then we have an even bigger problem. There's another problem that hasn't been mentioned here, but he's got to get rid of it. Who will assess the legality of the general acts of legal persons who are also very important or almost, I would say, the most decisive or the most important influence on the achievement of individual rights of citizens and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. I don't want to go any further. Who could decide on individual decisions or a general act, like political parties? His legality with the Political Party Act? We don't have that kind of solution. All this leads to the fact that the law is written about, I must say harshly, that it meets the needs of a negotiating team with the European Union. If this is added that after 20 or 19 years we have a law that will actually apply in a few years, at least 5, then it speaks of the government's intentions to deal with one hole in the judiciary, which is that the administrative court has full jurisdiction to protect the citizens from the will of the administration. It is alarming enough that the Republic of Croatia cannot solve the problem by formal harmonisation of its legislation with the aquis communare, that is, the legislation of the European Union countries, but must do essential reforms in the interests of its citizens and the development of this country. First law, my colleague Ingrid, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34602	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, also on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34603	Thank you very much, Mr. President and colleague Leakey, who announced me. Hello to Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is known to our public that the state judicial authority, the body that has been formed and which, with the aim and purpose of deciding who is being taken into the judicial order, is to decide on the disciplinary responsibility of judges, but also to decide on the promotion of judges, or on their progress. But this is also an opportunity to say that our citizens have not been satisfied with the judiciary for many years. Public criticism is often justified. What is the position of the judicial authority in our country? And it is a particularly important question, what do they think about the position and role of the judicial profession, or the judiciary? Is it acceptable in one country that the prime minister should be brought down on a judge who makes the decision, because he did not advise him at what point the verdict should be made. He wouldn't do that to Berlusconi who passed the law to suspend his own proceedings against him. So, in the atmosphere, we have had to and we want to talk about the progress of the judiciary. Desires are one thing if they are not accompanied by real action. On paper, we can fit in, write, what my colleague Leko was saying, as Mrs. Pusic said, but people watch what the government is doing. How do you choose judges? Who's coming to the judiciary? Who are these people who decide our most important good? About freedom of property and all other values. Who are these people who have company, i.e. The state entrusted the most important task? Who are those people who trust you like that? And what kind of judge does Croatia have? Croatia undoubtedly has one layer of judges of the highest education it would wish for and which Europe would envy, as well as America. Equally, there is one part of his Corps that cannot meet high standards. But you also see these most important, or most valuable, best judges who remain proud of their profession, their professions always on the trail of the Constitution and the law and all the regulations they apply, but these judges are above all not popular in their own profession. Why? Because they're all what others aren't. Because they're competition. And when it is debated on the Judicial Councils, and even on the State Judiciary Council, and still on the Judicial Councils, so at lower levels, on their candidacys, or at all candidates, then no one dares to speak against such persons, because their actions speak of them, their judgments, the speed they decide and the quality they decide to do. Because otherwise, at the speed and quality that the judiciary decides on economic flows in one country, it can improve or brake them. How many captured assets remain in the courts? And that's why the speed of action is particularly important in civilians, if not more important than in the criminal domain of the trial. And you see these judges aren't favorites among their colleagues. They think they're credentials, they're always making a fuss. Few of these judges in a particular court would like to elect such colleagues as the President of the Court, because he does not consider it collegiate, not to warn him that an object has long stood. And what happens a lot? Here's the place and time to talk about it. That these judges get great debates, because it's a shame to talk against a person like that. And then they go to a secret vote, and that judge doesn't get a single vote. And we have to change that here. There's no secret vote. What kind of vote? Because the vote would then eliminate all of this that is here is trying to incorporate with this law and grades and points. There's no vote. He didn't even know the existing law. But that's how, first of all, it's because of the simplicity of acting, somehow how to get out of that situation, and then it's turned into the opposite of itself. That's why in this law, there's no voting. Because everything says grades and points. Maybe just another suggestion. So we support all these changes, except it's not time to find a state school here, a building for which no funds are provided, that we're talking about something that's going to happen in 2014, 13 years. If it's in the law now, and we're going to use it together with these points, he's going to tell the judges, and there's no building anyway, and what we're going to stick to is these points. This should be left out of this law, when there are funds when it comes to such a project then it can also be found in our legislation. Why am I bringing this up? Nothing more devastationed and degraded the judiciary except for the decision of the then ministers, and under the law, to establish courts. The courts were established, called the presidents of the courts, the courts they did not have. For years, the courts insisted, and it wasn't on paper, and it wasn't on paper. And that's what created a big mistrust in the judiciary in the public. And that's why I suggest that everything that happens in 2013 and 14 has time, and not for us today, we make those decisions on our noses. I support these other decisions. Speaking on behalf of the SDP club and here are the ministers, let the funds be found to advance an existing centre that already has a pompous and pretentious name of the Academy, and has not yet moved to its premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34604	Thank you very much. This was the last debate on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. First reported is Mrs. Anna Lovrin's respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34605	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, here's what I'd like to do if I were just part of the debate where I exhibited on behalf of the club. I just want to confirm once again, that I agree with the opinion that all these reforms we are carrying out are not being implemented because Europe has ordered us to do so. I fully agree with Mrs. Pusic, but above all we want Croatia to get an impartial, effective and independent judiciary. On that trail are the amendments to these two laws that systematically implement what is outlined in the strategy. So, after the Law on trainees and the judicial exam was passed in 2008, which we did quite transparently and objectively, the criteria for entry and practice, the preparation for passing judicial exams, because so far, we should not forget the trainees in certain courts were wandering, doing some small courts, perhaps some auxiliary jobs, banging stamps, as determined by which judge president had broken down better, someone broke down upstairs. The judicial examination programme has clearly established what all trainees must go through their training practices, so diversely through judicial institutions, it has been found that for judges, state lawyers, legal practitioners, for economics lawyers, from the state local administration and local self-government. So, one step we've done. The next step is the introduction of a state school where the preparation will be clearly prescribed during the counseling session and where we will receive real judges who can sit at the same time and judge with a metricity and quality. A series of shifts, as I said, were made in the production of a methodology for assessing the conduct of judges in relation to the way the judgment councils and the State Judicial Council were working, and we do not forget that the existing amendments introduced the possibility of talking to candidates for the State Judiciary Council and the Judicial Council, because I agree that very often the opinions of the Judicial Councils consist of actually one secret lobbying and that the result of the vote does not correspond to anything in the assessment of the conduct of the judicial duties or what is stated before that judicial council. I therefore believe that the amendments to the Law on Courts amending the provisions of Articles 77, 78 and 79 are extremely useful where they clearly state in which way and by what criteria the Judicial Council will assess the work of judges on the basis of which criteria and that they are obliged to hold talks with candidates. So, the university provision that the Judicial Council is having talks with the candidates almost never or almost never been consummated. By this law, these amendments to the law have been imposed by the Judicial Council. And particularly important that I have already said that the Judicial Council is no longer expected to have an opinion in a way that comes to the vote but that it must be supported by an objective assessment of the conduct of its duties. Here, I think that some of the previous amendments and these changes are now being made when the work of a judge in a particular court or in the area of a particular county court decide and give the judge's council an assessment that these criteria are then becoming transparent and that we will no longer be witnesses to the vote as we now have, so we can now come from the materials that come before both the Justice Committee and the State Judiciary Council to see that they absolutely do not forward the evaluations or the number of points by objective criteria and proposals for selecting judges of the judicial councils. And another objection to the laws of the courts. Therefore, as regards the jurisdiction of Mr Leko, the provisions governing the jurisdiction of the administrative court also question the provision under which the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia will decide on the constitutionality of the general acts, as we have already heard, is a constitutional provision which determines the constitutionality of the legal and sublegal acts, and therefore, I am putting even the application of the non-constitution of this provision and even those lawsuits against solutions which have been guaranteed by the Constitution the right to local self-government and I think that would be in the jurisdiction of another court. Also, here, a nomotechnical remark, as well as the State Judicial Council Act, that Article 73, which adds new articles 73a, should be sterilised differently, in such a way as to amend and read Article 73, and that the final provisions determine that this article amends and amends into force in 1.1.2014 and will then not exist in parallel to the text of two contradictory norms, but will already know that the existing article is in force until the entry into force of this second provision. For these reasons, because it is really about further progress in the transparency of the choice of judges, where we are going to get the best quality when in the judiciary, of course, with all these observations that the provisions of these laws in the final text should be more clear on the criteria and call for all those objectively and quantifiable to be the results of the final exam but to be clearly established as criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34606	Thank you very much, ma'am. Replication to your presentation has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34607	A colleague rightly asks the question of how to reach an independent judge. This is essentially the goal of all these reform procedures, but being a judge doesn't mean being administrator, working from 7 to 3 to 4, that's the way of life. A person like that who looks at a watch can't be a judge. The judge must therefore be a person, except for these unquestioned professional qualities, of moral quality but equally committed to such a profession. Now, how do you get to that? I think a whole series of laws we need to change, first of all, this attempt to make the selection transparent, but also so that the waist and that the system works so that it excludes those who cannot meet these high standards from their ranks. And it's very important that the President of the Court can't book easier cases for these and harder for these. Then somebody picks up those formal points, and it doesn't look like it's a real picture again. That's why, always, in our long, long-standing legal past, over a hundred years ago, it's the President of the Court of Justice who has no derogations anywhere in Europe in law enforcement bodies in order to step down from getting someone over the order of the case. The way they arrive, they have to share in the referendums. That's the most objective criterion. And one more thing, in 2003, we just put in place a criminal offence against the law by a judge in order to protect judges who do their jobs normally from being chicaneous but equally so that those who ignore the law, who knowingly violate the law, would be prosecuted. Because that crime was in our possession and existed until 1997. But on the other hand, to protect him in his own safety because we also have judges, the state's attorneys who died, who were killed. And that the murder of a judge or such an attack on a judge should be treated with the most severe sentence of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34608	Thank you very much. We'll also hear a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34609	Thank you very much. Madam representative and I have to say yes to you in full. A subpoena is really not a profession, not a workplace, a judicial call is a calling, such as calls and calls and teacher's calls, teacher's calls, that's not done from 8 to 4. And I'm convinced that the vast majority of judges just experience their profession that way and understands and lives, living life according to the Code of Judge Ethics 24 hours a day. For those who don't, there are criteria, there are criteria, there are criteria, there's a state judicial council to remove them from the judicial profession. We often talk about not being satisfied with the number of such procedures but they are being conducted, they may not be public or familiar, but there are ways and the system is being worked out, and the judges are certainly being evaluated. I've already said that most of the people who receive salaries from the state budget. So every three years in the process of appointment to another court, when they report to the President of the Court, when they are permanently appointed, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34610	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Ivo Grbic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34611	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Respecting the Council of Europe's recommendation on the need to provide adequate training of candidates for judicial duties before their appointment, and given that all Member States of the European Union have established criteria for the appointment of judges and state lawyers and set up specific forms of preparation and education of candidates to raise the level of professionalism to a higher level, the Ministry of Justice has developed a strategic study to develop a single, objective and transparent criteria for entering a judicial and state-level law profession and establishing a state-level school for judicial officials, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 19 December 2008. In the implementation of the strategic study, it is necessary to prescribe amendments to the Law on Courts to candidates for judges the obligation to complete a public school for judicial officials in order to be appointed judges primarily for judges of criminal, municipal, commercial and administrative courts first appointed as judges in those courts. The adoption of a new Law on Administrative Disputes is also foreseen by full judication of the Administrative Court, in a way that the administrative trial will be in two stages. And this, specialised administrative courts as first-degree courts and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia as a long-term court, which requires the establishment and jurisdiction of these courts to regulate the amendments to the Law on Courts. In this respect, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council are prescribed that the Ministry of Justice shall draw up a Plan of Free Jobs at all courts in the Republic of Croatia at the beginning of each calendar year and shall open an internal tender for the completion of judicial posts. In addition, the procedures of the Ministry of Justice and the State Judicial Council with applications submitted until the appointment itself shall be detailed. The paper is to assess the behaviour of the judicial office by the judicial council and according to the methodology adopted by the State Judicial Council as well as the opinion of the President of the High Court, on which the State Judicial Council determines the number of points and brings a ranking list of candidates who have applied for a job. This way, objectively and transparently, the work of judges so far is valued and removes the possibility of subjectivism in the system of progress. It shall also be prescribed that the Office of the Justice Department should, after the internal tender procedure has been carried out, remain unfulfilled judicial posts to open a tender for the reception of candidates to the State School of Judicial Officials for which, after the successful completion of the State School, the State Judiciary Council will decide on the appointment of a candidate for judges to the court for which they were admitted to the State School. The establishment, establishment and mode of work of the State School for Judicial Officials and the reception of candidates and the method of passing the final exam will be prescribed by a special law. For the sake of this and expecting greater professionalisation of judges, state lawyers and their deputies as well as the greater possibility of acquiring the expertise and skills necessary for the conduct of these functions and advancements in the judicial profession, I support the amendment and additions of the Law on the State Judicial Council in the first reading as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34612	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the time has elapsed for individual hearings, so we can now say that there is only one individual debate left. And this is Mr. Rade Bosnjak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34613	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister and Associates. Since it is a small or comprehensive amendment to the Law on Courts, I want to take a very short look at this bill. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts harmonizes our legislation with the legislation of the European Union, but the amendments and additions to this law need to be done because of the total work I am doing as part of the reform of the judicial system. In addition, by adopting a new Law on Administrative Disputes, we have approached the reform of the administrative trial. Provisions on jurisdiction, judicial councils and other issues, the establishment of administrative courts and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia as a second-degree court, should be incorporated into the Law on Courts. Thanks to the fact that our Government has accepted an important document, a Strategic Study for the establishment of a single objective and transparent criteria for entering a judicial and state-run law profession and the establishment of a State School for Judicial Officials, I think it is very good that the amendments and additions of the Law on Courts are prescribed by the conditions that all candidates for judges appointed to certain courts will have to meet as of 1 January 2014. A mandatory State School for Judicial Officials has been completed, of course before that, a judicial exam was passed, an application for an ad for admission to the State School for Judicial Officials, and ultimately according to the prescribed procedure of appointment for a judge. It is also a good thing that the State Judiciary Council, with the preliminary opinion of all the Judicial Councils in the Republic of Croatia, will establish a methodology for making the judge's performance assessment. The proposed amendments and additions also require the candidate for the President of the Court to submit a work programme for that court. This provision aims to increase efficiency in the work of courts, reduce time in the process of judgment and reduce the number of pending cases. That is why I will support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34614	Thank you, Mr. Representative. The replica of the exhibition has a respected representative, Sima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34615	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I fully agree with you in this section that these laws should contribute to greater professionalisation of judges and more effective work of the court itself. However, I am not so optimistic with regard to the experiences we have had in recent years with regard to the passing of such or similar laws in the sense that what is now done is enough to make it more effective, or a smaller number of cases that last shorter. I'm interested, and I don't see any answers, and I believe that's what most citizens are interested in, what's gonna happen to those judges that don't lock up ordinary cases after ten years? If the president of that court after a year or two, I see that this is some kind of desert debate and some kind of border debate, two neighbors will take the case away. These are the answers that citizens are interested in. What about those judges who even know how to close the case and won't lock it up? So I guess we're not just gonna do it with these measures. I mean, judges have to feel each other's side, which is to call it a side of sanctions, because without it, I don't think it's going to work. But not just judges, but parties in the process. When are we going to get into a situation where when the party doesn't come to two scheduled debates to automatically know how to rule? So there is even more, it seems to me a series of simpler measures to make the Croatian judiciary more effective. I don't know why you don't do it. Here's a chance for the minister to say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34616	Thank you very much. And finally, a five-minute debate on behalf of the HNS club, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. ... Yeah, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Before the reply to the replica, Representative Rade Bošnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34617	I understand Mr. Lucin's colleague and I hold that, to some extent, his questions in the form of doubt can stand. However, the fact is that the proposal for this law has made efforts towards improving the work of courts, at this point as much as the applicant estimates, and I personally believe that they are objective in relation to the overall circumstances. It is therefore a proposed paper in this law that the candidate for the President of the Court should present his work programme in which he will convince the High Judicial Council that he will decide on his choice to have objective measures and mechanisms in his work programme to achieve this objective that we have talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34618	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HNS Club, a respected representative, Vesna Pusic, will be five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. This isn't a small law. This is a huge law. Perhaps the ministry people led by the minister are happy to think it's a small law and to be able to conclude, in the presence of the assembly, that it's something small and routine. This, if it comes to life in the spirit of strategic study and in spirit more than the specificity of the provisions of this law, will be a huge change and is therefore so important. And that's why I think it's important, on the one hand, for the Ministry to give support to a little bit of concreteizing these things that are seen from the spirit of the law, which is objectifying the criteria. It's a huge law, because if it lives in the spirit of what it carries with it will largely cast out nepotism in selecting judges, one form of corruption, mugging, clientism. So there's potential, but the criteria have to be objective. Secondly, I have a suggestion that in the state of play, it would be good to show how many cases in the last year in Croatian courts went into obsolescence, how many judges on average are solving cases in a year, and how many judges in 2008 due to significantly less resolved cases, how many decisions in the appeal procedure have been lifted or modified. It's how many decisions have been abolished because of significant violations of the rules and how many judges in the past year have been relieved of their duties as a result of a strict sentence, so as some insight into the situation, that would give us insight into the situation. Thirdly, I suggest on behalf of the HNS Club that you consider the suggestion that articles in the Proposal for a Law on the State Judicial Council, Articles 16a, b, c and d which do not assume the existence of a state school, may possibly come into force with some modifications earlier, and that only what depends on the results of the State School for Judicial Officials enter into force when the school is established. So from a to d. I think it might come into effect sooner. And another question, and the issue concerns the corruption that the court is sending candidates to the State School for Judicial Officials, and then after school, they return to that same court. And now I don't understand it, and I'm asking that if you can look back at it in your address. Does that mean that these people are going back to their courts regardless of the grades they've received? Because if they come back regardless of the grades they got, then this whole big construct falls into the water. So please do that if you can explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34620	Thank you very much. We have another application on behalf of the club for a five-minute debate. It is the SDP club and representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking finally on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to point out in particular that entering the judicial profession determines the way in which a person entered the judicial profession absolutely determines its conduct later. If someone entered the way of relationships, there is no speech at any later stage, or at any stage of development, so they can pass all schools and academia for the judiciary and those that will be established in 2014, 2015, State School for the Judicial, i.e. A judge who won't be independent. It's a judge who's going to judge by dictatorship or if he doesn't, he's going to judge it the way some side likes it. And it's very dangerous. And that's something that degrades the entire profession. Only one of them degrades almost everything, let alone if there are more. We here need to take this very seriously so that this year, not a month ago, a global barometer of judicial corruption most negatively assessed the judiciary of the Croatian state's draft. Of course, only the judiciary for such a situation is not wrong, but it bears a large share of responsibility. It carries a great deal of responsibility when laws are passed and the profession is known to be inadmissible, and then shut up about it. However, we have now had a decision that must be an indication to the executive government that the Supreme Court is taking place, as some nebulous situations of legal solutions are being drawn up. And it's a guideline and a legislative authority to do something about it. Both legislative and executive and judicial powers are separate, but they cannot function as part of the state government, the state government as a whole if there is no mutual conversation, communication and listening. And that is something that is very necessary for the success of the government as a whole, and especially for the individual of each part of that government. Here is the effort to improve the objectivity of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, because we know that certain decisions of the State Judiciary Council have been scandalized by the public. And the best way of doing that is transparency and openness. The opinion of the Justice Committee shall also be given in the procedure of the appointment and resolution of judges. However, what this committee of ours was all about. This parliamentary committee, somewhere in the Justice Committee, is very important, and what does the Justice Committee do? The Justice Committee is merely a brake, or something that needs to be done technically, and is not worth contributing to anything other than delaying the process of appointment and resolution. Well, in this sense, we all agreed on the Justice Committee both in this mandate and in earlier mandates, that something should change in that sense, that it is also a big job for the committee itself. But that's one indication and a good way, not only in this narrow business of naming and resolving judges, but also in the openness of the judicial profession to the public. In such a way, the public would get to know how justice works in the first place. Which are the basic postulates of actions in this or that branch of justice. And once again, I want to say that there is a need to be very careful as it enters the judiciary, as it is progressing, but also, on the other hand, it needs to be maximum protection of the judicial officer, to protect him from the attack. These attacks in recent years have been common, they've been monstrous. Every country that holds on to itself and holds on to its judicial official, because it has given him a very important, I would say the most important function in the state and thus need and protect him. Here come the amendments to the Penal Code. We expect them to happen as soon as possible. The place for the protection of judicial officials certainly has, but also to tighten the responsibility and reintroduce the criminal offence of violations of the law by the judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34622	Thank you very much. And now the final word on behalf of the promoter will be held by the Minister of Justice, Dr. Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34623	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, thank you for the honourable MPs and MPs. I thank you for your principled support for this for the future of the Croatian judiciary with strategic legal changes. But I also thank you for the extremely useful suggestions some of which will already be installed before the second reading. And I also call for further dialogue in improving these legal texts. As for some specific questions that have been raised, I would only comment briefly. I agree that she has given the file a common problem and that the President of the Court may abuse his powers. What is the technical improvement of our traditional alphabetical order, which assigns the writings, chronology and other methods, is simply that we will, at the most recent time, be able to have so-called 60 courts, afterwards on others. There's the file. We're going to have an in-depth insight into where any of the files are stuck and for what reasons in some of the judges. And we'll also have the possibility of randomly selecting a random computer file assignment where it's impossible to cheat on cards. As regards ensuring the effectiveness mentioned above, an additional provision is incorporated in this proposal. We have already had the possibility that, not possibly, the court president's obligation not to do their part of the work against those judges who do not comply with the criteria, that the President of the Court is obliged to initiate a strict procedure. In practice, however, this was often not done because it was thought that for some justified reasons someone was not acting as president of a tight procedure. That's why we added one new provision here. If, for reasons justified, the President of the Court finds that no number of decisions have been taken according to framework criteria, he shall inform the President directly of the High Court of reasons. So either initiate a tight procedure or report. What we will be controlling together, the President of the Supreme Court and myself or some other minister of justice, is whether or not a tight procedure has been initiated, or a report has been submitted to the president of a directly higher court. The sanction for not being done for the President of the Court is immediately his impeachment, and in the event of a need, then the powers of the President of the Supreme Court, or the Minister of Justice, take effect if there were no reasonable reasons to initiate a tight procedure. And finally, a brief comment on what it looks like after a certain candidate for a judge has already graduated from the State School for Judicial Officials, when and how he is coming back and how it is determined. So when he won a certain number of points in the judicial exam, that is, the entrance exam for that judicial school, he wins his dowry. Therefore, there is a list of needs planned in advance, it is also an accurate observation. Needs to be pre-planned. You can see how many seats will be needed, in which state's attorney's office, or court. Thanks to their collected score dowry, those who have a higher number of points, you can first choose where they want to go and do so before they go to school. Why before they go to school? We were also thinking about the possibility that only after school is elected etc., but it would have rejected many candidates if they didn't know where they were going and the objections from the judges' ranks, or the state's attorney was no, we won't have enough quality candidates. Thus, according to the winning number of points, a place can be secured in advance, provided that this school is successfully completed. So, the condition is to successfully complete the school and pass the final exam. As far as the school's character is concerned, that school is less of a building and more of a program. What exactly is this about? It is mostly a practical programme, most of which is not implemented in one school building, but in that court that will later return as a judge. What's the difference than so far? Simply in that it is not a young man who is only used to perform some stereotype jobs and tasks, but is little through various dimensions of the judicial profession in a practical sense. Here, that would actually be the basic answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34624	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I hereby conclude the debate, this joint debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. We'll vote on these bill proposals as soon as the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34625	We move to the sixth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, was first reading, P.Z.E. No. 383, the legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. I find that the conclusion has been accepted by most votes, 97 votes in favour, nothing abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34658	We now move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Proposal for a law on administrative disputes, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 378 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. You received the materials by mail. And they were discussed by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from the board at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the draft law? Yeah. Dear Minister Dr. Ivan Shimonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The adoption of the Law on Administrative Disputes concludes the reform of the entire Croatian procedural legislation. The new laws on litigation, criminal proceedings and administrative proceedings had the same objective of proposing this law, which is to better protect citizens' rights, speed up procedures and adapt to European Union standards. And there really is room for promotion in this area. The application of the Law on Administrative Disputes is still relevant from the time of the SFRY, the administrative court currently has 37,000 pending cases. In addition, due to better judicial protection of the rights of citizens, the jurisdiction of the administrative tribunal should be extended. This law extends the subject matter of an administrative dispute with an assessment of the legality of individual decisions and to an assessment of the legality of the conduct of public-legislative bodies, an assessment of the legality of administrative contracts and an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of general acts which are not in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Also, administrative courts will now have full jurisdiction to determine facts, not just the application of the law. Accordingly, a mandatory oral debate is also introduced at the first stage of the administrative trial. The new procedural rules also introduce a new organisation of administrative trials. The first-degree decisions are taken by 4 regional administrative courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek. Administrative courts thus physically approached and became more accessible to the citizens. The High Administrative Court, based in Zagreb, primarily resolves the most complex administrative matters and harmonizes the practice of regional administrative courts. The Court of Appeal shall act only when the Court of First Instance has, by way of a ruling, waived the administrative decision and settled the administrative matter itself. The system of administrative trial described should start on 1 January 2012. The structure described should ensure better judicial control of the administration as well as speed and efficiency of the proceedings. Mr. Vice President, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to comment briefly on certain key legal provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34660	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34661	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On 27 March 2009, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on General Administrative Procedure. The law, which after a long, long time modernised and normably improved the administrative procedural legislation of the Republic of Croatia, brought it closer and brought it to a trail of European standards in this significant area. If we can recall a few of his essential principles. First of all, simplifying the first-degree procedure. The shortened procedure has been accepted as a regular procedure which is extremely important in work, in action against citizens and other legal persons. The second stage resolution has become a metric solution, i.e. from 1 January of next year, a metric resolution will begin. The subject of regulation of that law has been extended, not only to the authoritative individual acts of the public legal authority, but also to the actions and failures of the public legal authority. This administrative protection is secured, and administrative judicial protection will be provided through the Law on Administrative Disputes. A new institute was introduced, the Institute of Administrative Contract in a specific administrative area, in a specific authoritative administrative area and contractually, but now administrative law. All of this will strengthen roles and strengthen and give importance to the role of administrative courts. What is important is a norm that is about to be small and relatively undetected, a depolitic decision to solve administrative matters is depolitical. They will have to be made by officials, not by body leaders, as well as by making decisions. And all of this was brought by the Law on Administrative Disputes, because the bill proposed by this law as its expected complementary continuation of the modernisation of both regulations that practically in the Croatian legal space from the ancient 1950s and millenniums. All this points to the specificity and importance of the administrative trial. The parties here are always on the one hand states or public legal bodies, state bodies, and on the other hand citizens or all those who are in some way or on the other and who exercise their legal interest, defend their rights, their obligations. Therefore, in order to gain effect and to obtain a quality administrative trial, effectively but legally, it was necessary to order a double... normation. First of all, to modernise administrative court proceedings in a similar but more appropriate trial, as it was done in administrative proceedings. But do and make a significant reshuffle of the administrative trial itself. As indicated and noted and welcomed by all the representatives and committees who discussed this law, the Administrative Court finally becomes a court full of jurisdiction. Therefore, the fact is also being examined, and the parties have been granted the right to an oral hearing. The oral debate can be excluded, i.e. it will not be at the first stage, only when it is explicitly prescribed by law, which is the European standard in this area, in the field of trial. What is also important, which is undetected perhaps quite enough in the administrative process, which is that the administrative bodies but now and the court, are primarily making reform decisions, not primarily casatian decisions, which is once again an infavourable solution in the metrics, and also above all in the acceleration but also in the quality of action. The subject matter of the trial already being spoken by the minister has been extended, but the subject of regulation of the new ZUP in addition to individual administrative acts, i.e. actions, has also been extended to the assessment of constitutionality and legality, the general acts of the units of local self-government and legal persons with public authority. In practice, it is a legal void that is not regulated at this time, i.e. not affected by the intervention of the Constitutional Court. Finally something about it. A two-degree decision has been secured. However, this is not a rule which, in this specific area of administrative proceedings and administrative proceedings, would be a sacred rule for the reason that the first-degree decision in administrative matters is being reconsidered already in the administrative procedure. It was necessary to ensure so-called. A filter for a high administrative court, which will decide itself in the most complex legal issues and legal cases. And that in those cases in which, as a rule or no administrative decision has been confirmed, and it will also be important, I would say the important role of that court, will be exactly in harmonising the practices of these new administrative courts that will be established by 2012. What is also important to us, given the specificity of the administrative trial, is the introduction of some significant improvements and mechanisms to improve the process. One of them's a review procedure. In the same factual and legal state, which is a relatively common example in a number of administrative matters, it will be possible to make the basis of one final judicial decision, which will allow all other files to be resolved. This as one I would say a combination of litigation and administrative proceedings, in this administrative trial in principle, will be applied subsidically in some institutions of the Law on Prosecution, somewhere in the Law on Administrative Disputes. What's finally important is that this system needs to be revived somewhere by 2012 and that it seems to be a real deadline. It is necessary to establish first-degree courts, appoint 70 to 80 judges and judicial advisers, which should be practically implemented and what is one process that takes place, but first of all in this interregnum, it is necessary to resolve the backlogs of which the minister pointed out and which significantly burden the work of the now single Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. In the follow-up between the two readings, we will certainly review at least two significant newspapers that are being introduced, which is a deviation from the starting point to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia we no longer have the requirements to protect legality. We'll have one more talk with the Supreme Court. That was the current conclusion, we'll do it one more time after, between the two readings. And the debate with the constitutional court, related to today, has already been mentioned two or several times in terms of the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the general acts. However, we note that the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of general acts, legal persons, and bodies of the unit of local self-government are needed and that we do not have it in the Croatian legal system today, and probably the law, the debate on this law, will encourage debates on some regulations which, later on, may well be the judication of a constitutional court that is likely to take place at that time, will at least be reconsidered and perhaps change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34662	Thank you very much. I'll ask the committee's rapporteurs if they'll take your word for it. If not, and apparently not, then I'm opening a debate on this bill. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of this proposal for a law on administrative disputes. We mentioned it when the Law on Administrative Procedure was passed that it should have been brought into the package. But here, very quickly came this proposal for a law on administrative disputes. And as we have heard from Mr. Minister and Secretary of State, these are indeed almost revolutionary changes that will hit a very important branch of the trial, i.e. administrative trial. So far, we have had a high administrative court, an administrative court that resolved without any debate, which dealt with illegal conduct, most often by bodies with equal authority of state bodies. We've seen from this data that there's a large number of pending cases in the administrative court, over 37,000. What does that mean? This means that, and as a rule, according to resolved cases and the report by the Ombudsman, it is evident that in all segments, the state violated the rights of individuals or their associations with its acts very roughly. And that is a warner. Is the exit from all this new courts, new buildings, new funds? Or should we introduce a culture of legality? That politics and how to conduct state affairs must be such that the right is their means and not their ignoring, but often it is in action. And then this same state that was acting illegally finds funds more or less successful, most often failed to establish a court, hire judges, staff, to solve what? What she did illegally. In all professions, then, the most important thing is not to harm and prevent. The reform of the judiciary cannot happen without the reform of the administration and their legal conduct. That's why school is for people like that, something we need just as much and precious. But why is there no interest, why in one France, Germany, in Austria has an interest in such an interest, for a governing lawyer, for a man who sees his career in the administration? We have very few of those frames. If I can't get somewhere else. Not only because they're underpaid, but the uncertainty of their promotion, their career advances are very high. Because also to the extreme limits, and especially in practice, still on paper, by law, are somehow not objective conditions, therefore. And they depend on politics, on the shifts that happen, and that's something that destabilizes such a single profession. It detimises people who want to do their careers in such a profession. And then all of this ultimately reflects on the success and violation of citizens' rights, that is to say, their protection against the power of the state apparatus or bodies with public authority, and these objects are huge. And a good part of those cases then goes to the judiciary. We have therefore made a big observation as to why administrative courts, why the administrative court has no discussion. Now they're starting, right now, so it's one big, big newspaper that's going to cost. This is a big procedure. We have so far had a reform on which we have been very skeptical to remove the courts, that Croatia has many courts, judges. Croatia primarily has too many cases per population, each third person in Croatia has a case before the court. A few years ago it was four, now it's three. And that's something we all have to imagine. There's no country that's so rich it can separate all the time for new buildings, for new judicial officials. Almost every citizen in this segment or that segment will be in front of this or that court to seek his own justice. So, the formation as we see here from the law, the bill will form administrative courts in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek, and that is something that really requires great resources. Mr. Minister, you say buildings aren't important, there's no job without it, there's no serious business without it. As it was necessary to secure the building for the judge's education centre. We are also in the pursuit that this, and in order to save those funds that this education is possible through existing ours and buildings, is ultimately an important education in the way it is implemented. We had a serious remark from the European Commission and had to be provided with a special space for the Centre for the Education of Judges. It is therefore very important to ensure immediately at the beginning of the space. If there's no room,... To put an administrative court in an existing court building, you know it's not possible, because they've been re-tracted, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no room for judicial officials either. Here's to say in Split, but in other major cities, it's a big, big problem. Therefore, if you are seriously referring to sound grounds to put in place an administrative trial at the very beginning, the means must be provided for this. If that doesn't happen, I repeat, because this has been through history and this has been through our recent history, it has disgraced the judiciary at the beginning, and it has neither been wrong nor due, because the funds needed have not been provided. However, when we talk about all of this, we must also talk about citizens, because it is them, because they are the ones who demand, or whose rights by the state's actions were most often injured by public authorities. We have bigger objections here than even the trial itself. A single ministry has come up with a solution that has been pending for years, and then because of overcrowding because the Administrative Court has so far resolved all these administrative disputes in all these cases must also wait a few years. And then what happens? If that solution is abolished, it is again required that a particular ministry or body of the ministry resolve the case and is waiting again for years. And there's no end to it. And these are the questions of life that often mean existence, whether from pension rights, or from the area of rights of defenders, etc. Whether this way will be one step further in the torture of the exercise of rights and the protection of citizens or it will be a relief. Therefore, this provision in Article 57, which states that the court will, by its appeal, adopt a claim and annul an illegal individual decision in its entirety or in the part in which the right or legal interest of the Prosecutor is violated and resolves the matter itself. Is this cumulative or alternative to this other sentence? That's where the key is to protect the citizens. If the court will indeed and as Mr. Secretary of State has said, if these are just the university's powers of the court that he chooses whether to reform such a decision or to use his casator's powers, it is now a little unclear for us. In any event, it would be good if, if it were an obligation to amend such decisions if the conditions had been met, and to abolish if it were to be abolished that it must be in the taxo-listed cases and a certain period within which any serious consequences would arise for a body which has not made a decision, i.e. for a person who has not made a decision within the prescribed time limit. That's the key thing. Because all of this, we're going to spend money, and yet, because if this could be understood in a way, or if the court would mostly annul such illegal decisions and there's no sanctions for the body to make a certain decision, then we'll have another decision, we'll have a situation as before with just one more possibility that, when and the ruling of the Administrative Court, we'll still be waiting in the High Court of Justice. So we need to see that this procedure is as effective as possible, as fast as possible, and it won't be faster unless there are sanctions for those who have to make a decision and have not made it within certain deadlines. And those deadlines should be respected. Why does it matter? Let's say one Austria. She doesn't know what a silence administration is. There each, literally every item is solved within 15 days. Unless it is resolved within 15 days, sanctions occur and no one is exposed because he is losing his job. However, the Austrians also realize that even in their administration system a certain part of the people, they call them the management motors that pull things and solve things faster and better than other colleagues and that they have noticed that they are all equally paid. And it's been going one, two, three years, a pilot project to stimulate everyone to work equally, that is, how to pay these people in the administration according to their work. And in that pilot project, when they were rewarded except for their basic salary by objects, they were peering into each other's closets and literally stealing files and stealing objects. Until we have a similar system, they will often delegate to another colleague or lie in drawers. Therefore, if there is a serious will to solve this, this big problem, it can be resolved very quickly. These legislative solutions are very good, but if they are left to the will of those who participate without any sanctions, the state will only spend money, and people will rightly be even more dissatisfied. In all systems, management is a mirror of the state. How the administration works, even the judiciary, how the administration does it is a mirror of the state. Therefore, serious states, serious authorities do not like their employees toying with their reputation. That's why there's a reward system, but there's a system that's also a system where people who are scolding the reputation of the state, and that's when they don't do what the law says when they don't do things within the deadlines. There is a way, there is a mechanism to thank them for their work so far and to eliminate them from their system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34664	Thank you very much. The next registered discussion club is the HDZ club, the respected representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34665	Mr. Vice President, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary with his associates. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the proposal for a law on administrative disputes with an introductory note that it is one of the reasons for amending the Law on Administrative Disputes, i.e. I would say no reason for the amendment. The reason for the change is the overall reform in the framework of administrative action and administrative trial. But certainly the continuation of the adoption of a new Law on General Administrative Procedure, which introduced a number of new institutes into the administrative process, extended the administrative procedure and to other legal unregulated, legally unregulated management practices. In this sense, this Law on Administrative Disputes represents an upgrade of the administrative, this already existing administrative trial, and together with the aforementioned Law on Administrative Procedure makes up one well-designed whole. The Law itself on Administrative Disputes as the largest newspaper brings elaborate institutes by which the Administrative Court becomes a court full of jurisdiction. And of course, an important application in the administrative trial, a change in the administrative trial, the content of the provisions that require the Administrative Court to decide on the measure of matters. Namely, there has already been mentioned and the minister also noted in the analyses and reports we had data that there are currently 37,000 unsolved cases in front of the Administrative Court. But we have often listened to these analyses in projects carried out with the partners of the European Union by the representatives of the Administrative Court that they actually solve cases within a reasonable period, that they have no cases, almost no cases older than three years. That might be true. But what we were trying to establish as a criterion and with the judges of the Court of Justice that his problem for the citizen does not begin by filing a complaint with the Administrative Court. Therefore, it is usually one procedure to file an action by a citizen already after long-term and long-term exhaustion in front of the authorities of the administration. So, after it was a first-degree administrative procedure, a second-degree administrative procedure that lasted four, five years, moving to the Administrative Court if a citizen is unhappy with a solution or considers that there are legal reasons for filing an action, and then this procedure takes, for example, three years at best, which would be a reasonable time limit. When we add it all together for the citizens, it is very often seven, eight years, and then this Administrative Court does not solve the measurement but only confirms or abolishs the administrative decision, the administrative act, very often abolishes and returns to the re-determination of the administrative body. There are no deadlines, although there are legal deadlines, but there are no sanctions for non-compliance within those deadlines, and that makes it difficult for you to do so indefinitely. We therefore welcome and very much support the proposal for administrative trial to be a full jurisdiction trial, so that the court's obligation to conduct an oral hearing in all cases is prescribed in different cases and that it makes primary reform decisions and casatorial decisions only in exceptional cases, and I agree that this part should perhaps be made even more stringent and clearer. It therefore opens up the possibility of a procedural nature that the court itself determines the facts and that, as a rule, conducts an oral debate which ultimately leads to the measurement of these court cases. The basic intensities of this proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes are heading towards a suspension, as I have said, of the practice of long-term proceedings before the administrative authorities, of procedures that last for years and which are often decided more often before the same administrative body after the suspension of the Administrative Court. This legislative solution provides for a two-stage judiciary with the possibility of parties to lodge an appeal against decisions of first-degree courts. In this respect, administrative courts as envisaged and the High Administrative Court should be established, which, of course, provides for additional financial resources and the time necessary for the organisation of administrative proceedings. What is good is that we do parallel work on the relevant laws as we have seen in the previous debate of the Law on Courts. What opens up one doubt whether such a deadline is necessary and whether it takes three years to set up today, I believe that this is a comfortable deadline for setting up and organising an administrative trial, is just a question of whether citizens can wait so long and whether they could be more up-to-date so that in 2012 this deadline also says in the reasoning that no additional means are needed because, of course, in 2009, it will not be necessary but I certainly do not think it can stand, that the budgets will not be provided until 2011 because they will start working in 2012. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on technical assistance and other technical assistance in the field of technical assistance and other technical assistance, in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. I am opening one question here regarding the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court and the administrative courts, a very broad jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court when it is resolved in the first degree. So, I suggest you consider it. Maybe pull the parallel, this is a specific trial. In fact, I doubt how much this will burden this High Administrative Court, so perhaps it would be a better solution if some proceedings were to end in front of a first-degree administrative court, so where no appeal would be allowed at the High Administrative Court and the most complex things were to be left to the High Administrative Court. What are special concrete solutions will undoubtedly cause further debates in the professional and interested public so it is good that this law is in the first reading, so that there is time to conduct a broad debate. First of all, it is referred to the provisions defining the administrative dispute, which define that the subject of the administrative dispute is also in the light of the provision, that the subject of an administrative dispute or administrative trial and the assessment of the constitutionality of the general acts of the units of local self-government and legal entities which are public authorities which are not in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Under constitutional provisions, they are the subject of the Constitutional Court's resolution, which is clearly stated but they are today not resolved by the Constitutional Court. So then we have one nonsensical that the Constitutional Court is covered by individual constitutional lawsuits at all and all, that it has narrowed down almost to the Court of Appeal or yet a degree of protection in the ordinary court proceedings, but does not want to take the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the sublaws, but exclusively in the constitutionality of the law. The Secretary of State said well that this issue of constitutionality assessment here in the debate on the Law on Administrative Disputes will also likely open a debate on the Constitutional Court Act, as well as a debate on constitutional changes. In practice, they could also raise doubts about jurisdiction as I said to the High Administrative Court when he decides, under the proposal of the law, in the first degree on lawsuits against judgments on the appointment of judges, complaints against appointment decisions, the resolution of the President of the Courts, deputy state attorney, public notary, etc. It is important to stress that this proposal for a law as the fundamental elements of the administrative dispute accepts the principle of the right to a fair trial and decision-making within a reasonable time, but also very important procedural legal principles that we can systematise in the following way. Therefore, the party's statement principle, the principle of oral debate, the principle of effectiveness, the principle of assistance to the ignorant party. It should also highlight the possibility that during the dispute before the court, parties may enter into a settlement on the matter of the dispute, and the settlement itself may refer to the whole claim, namely the whole case of resolution or one part thereof. And to conclude, the Law on Administrative Disputes in this proposal represents one quality newspaper, a transition to a new two-stage system of administrative trial, a transition to administrative trial as a dispute of full jurisdiction. And long awaited this change, we have long been warned of the European acquis which guarantees and protects against the administration of a full jurisdiction trial. And I firmly believe that by forming these courts and this new procedural law, it will certainly ensure that citizens are more effective in resolving their rights now, for which they must seek the exercise of that right before the body of the state administration. And if they consider that the body of the state administration has not acted by law or has not acted within a specified time limit, they shall be provided with judicial protection of the full jurisdiction and within two degrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34666	Thank you very much. No more registered clubs, so we're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes each. The first registered representative is Rade Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister and the Government's representatives. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on administrative disputes, one from a series of legislative proposals that we are harmonising with the legislation of the European Union. The government has defined itself as a completely new legal text because only amendments and additions to the current Law on Administrative Disputes could not, in a transparent and consistent manner, present all newspapers and respected European standards for the protection of citizens' rights in the judicial review of administrative decisions before independent courts. We have noticed that we will establish several first-degree administrative courts for the area of one or more counties, while the current Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia is being shut down, and the High Administrative Court of Croatia is being established as a second-degree court. Therefore, the proposal for this law establishes a two-stage administrative trial and determines the actual jurisdiction of the administrative courts and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. This also meets the provisions of Article 6 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Administrative courts would be established in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, and thanks to the CARDS project, they would begin work on January 1st, '12. A year. The objectives of the new text of the law are also to increase the efficiency of the court procedure, to shorten its duration and certainly to bring it into line with the legal acquis of the European Union in the context of which we are looking at the proposed solutions which achieve the procedural possibilities of the court to determine the facts itself and to conduct the oral debate as a rule. But it is the court's obligation to resolve the administrative matter by its verdict which removes fear of too long waiting for citizens, if their rights are violated by acts of administrative authority and by bodies with public authority. I consider it necessary and good for the applicant to decide and propose a brand-new Law on Administrative Disputes because a number of newspapers have also adopted a new General Administrative Procedure Act and extended the application of this procedure to other legally unregulated administrations. Therefore, this new Law on Administrative Disputes constitutes an upgrade in the part of the administrative trial and, together with the law on administrative proceedings, constitutes a unique whole. I like the proposals for solutions that will end up in front of first-degree courts in spite of guaranteed double-level procedures. It is precisely defined in which cases an appeal against a verdict or appeal against a solution is allowed, i.e. in which cases a complaint may be brought to the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is positive that this law significantly shortens procedural deadlines. Both parties and the court are obliged to act more quickly and take procedural action, which will also contribute to a faster achievement of judicial protection for citizens, but also to a smaller accumulation of unsolved court cases. Of course I didn't have the ambition to talk about all the details, but compared to everything we've heard so far, I'm calling on you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34668	Thank you very much. Second, for the time being, the last to be reported for an individual debate is the esteemed representative, Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34669	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable government officials, this law, colleagues and colleagues. I'd say, finally. Finally, we have received a new Law on Administrative Disputes in the Republic of Croatia, and what we can expect from this bill. What's he got to solve? Legal protection should be resolved against all administrative actions. It is necessary to resolve the competence in determining the facts and application of the law in a contradictory procedure so that decisions are reformative, not casators. So, not destroy, but solve in full jurisdiction. Is it possible to meet these expectations as provided by the bill? In my court, there are several problems that we should take care of, in addition to who will be elected judge and division of jurisdiction, we should also take care of, say, articles, I think that these are 57th and 66th, which are set in the draft law alternative. And right away, I'm in favour of an alternative, for an alternative. I think Article 57 determines whether the appeal of a first-degree solution delays execution. I'm about to postpone. Because this is the principle, the constitutional principle of phasing out in courts, and I believe that in administrative matters, citizens of the Republic of Croatia are solving their most important interests in life. It adds legal, increases the legal security of citizens, it reduces, i.e. ensuring both independence and independence of handling in administrative matters, so public administrations or public authorities, and then, as I have mentioned it, again, we need to know the definition of who decides in the administrative procedure. Or the bodies that solve it. Why do I find that important? Well, there is now the administrative court of the Republic of Croatia which, of course, is not a court full of jurisdiction, but let's say it does judge and make decisions. However, the court has an average trial of 3 years, 3.5 years, round up, that's one problem. I'm not even sure that it's supposed to be a faster solution here, unless the administration is more efficient, more independent and legal, so to speak, if administrative disputes continue to be produced, as is done now. But there's another problem. For example, the Croatian Parliament itself does not respect the decisions of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia now. What's the guarantee they'll respect later? In particular, I am now going back to what I have already spoken about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, and here in Article 3 is the section and jurisdiction of administrative courts. One of these areas and competences is the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the general acts of the units of local and regional self-government. I mention again that in this way we are generating a conflict of jurisdiction between the Constitutional Court by article, I think 128. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and this Proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes. Since this younger law, the truth of the Constitution can only be changed by constitutional law, we are causing problems in interpretation. But that's an even smaller problem. But in order for the administrative court, and in which council here is not told, to resolve the constitutionality and legality of the general acts of the units of local and regional self-government, it is not settled. In addition, I know that the Constitutional Court is now deciding on the constitutionality and legality of sublegal acts, I would like to say the regulations adopted by the ministries or ministers, the Government and others. It's in the works of the Constitutional Court and the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Such a legal option is now not possible for me and it opens up a lot of questions. I would prefer that within the framework, I think that this is the provision of Article 66, which provides for the assessment of general acts, to provide for that possibility to the administrative court as a possibility of assessing legality, because here it is done when a solution is adopted, an individual solution based on a general act. It is not a general assessment, and if it is possible to conclude a general assessment, then the initiation of the procedure is very narrow. Therefore, it is not possible to show the legal interest of the general type that there is the legality of the general act, but that you must be personally interested to initiate the procedure, which, of course, limits the functioning of the administrative court, the High Administrative Court. This issue is important for legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia and citizens in general and since we are already dealing with this problem, we should indeed, after 20 years, predict how it is resolved, I repeat, the illegality of the general acts of legal persons, other legal persons, these are various statutes, rules, etc. in the general legality study, and already here there is a indication of how this issue is addressed when it comes to an individual act arising either on the basis of that general act or not. All in all, I think there's a well-placed way here, and it's high time we got in Croatia the Law on Administrative Disputes, to get a two-stage decision. But there's one question I'm curious about, it seems a little illogical. We're talking about a state-run judicial school that should start operating since 2014. This law would enter into force in 1.1.2012. So in 2012, courts, administrative and high administrative courts would be established and judges would be appointed without a public school for judicial officials. They'd already been working for two years as administrative judges, then a school would be established, so they'd have to finish that state school. If the end of a state school is a condition for someone to become a judge, if it's not for these judges either, then why would we do it to others, for other judges as a conditions of appointment. It doesn't make sense. If we now create a strategy in the establishment of administrative courts, in the district and in the judges. I think it would be more logical to say that schooling, in the working century, is a permanent obligation and that judges are named after the completion of the academy that is already doing, according to the judicial examination, the traineeship and the evaluations from the traineeship, and that it is a permanent obligation to conduct this procedure in court. That's what the minister said, not the building, not the school. Then it's much more logical that it's a permanent form of education training, not God's, a permanent process of eliminating the unsuitable. That is why I warn you, and I am pleased to support the proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes. As soon as he gets here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34670	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. On behalf of the promoter, the closing statement is held by Justice Minister Dr Ivan Šimonovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At noon, a two-day marathon and 10 laws and justice areas were completed. And I will repeat something that I have said over these two days many times, and that is to sincerely thank for the very useful suggestions and principled support and this legal text. This successfully completed marathon is in fact a normatively defined and organisationally defined reform procedure in the judiciary. In fact, yesterday's commitment of the reform package relating to the prison system and the introduction of a trial involving the Law on Prosecution, the addition of the Penal Code and finally the Law on the execution of the punishment of minors seems to be a major step towards significant changes in our prison system and its adaptation to international standards. Also, with regard to the adoption and adoption of yesterday's Law or the amendment of the USKOK Act, i.e. the State's Attorney's Office, it is actually a defined jump vertical. And finally, through today's work, a significant contribution has been made to achieving the objectives of judicial reform in the sense that justice becomes fast, impartial, and what is also very important, and has not been available during these days, it is accessible to all. As far as speed is concerned, we, with today's introduction of the Law on Administrative Disputes, have defined in fact the complex of procedural laws, the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Administrative Procedure, which sets a very high scale of acceleration of our proceedings. The European Union considers that the standard from the time when a citizen submits a certain request to the last moment and the last instance of judicial protection for 3 years is in the context of normative changes both in terms of the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes, we have sought to put such things in a procedural way to make it possible in Croatia as well. We are also hoping that we will be in a position to offer a proposal to streamline the network of misdemeanors in this House. As you know, the network of municipal courts has already been rationalized with the goal of actually reducing the entire network of courts by about 40% with the goal of actually speeding up the proceedings because the cases will be more rationally deployed, more uniformly by different courts, the circulation of courts will bring specialization. Finally, today's introduction of the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council should help to ensure that justice is impartial, that the criteria for the appointment, or progress of judges, are based on strictly professional criteria. I'd just like to mention, in the fall, we're expecting two big laws, that is, over the next year. It is about Ovrsa and the Penal Code regarding the rest of the fall will be crucial that we pass through other readings successfully, in which we expect your support and good suggestions. And the emphasis afterwards follows the implementation of adopted reform solutions. In the end, I would only end up with that, that chapter 23. - Justice and human rights are not yet open for known reasons, but we are already working on meeting the conditions for its closure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34672	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34673	We move to the seventh point, the draft law on administrative disputes, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 378, the proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes 2 is hereby adopted. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that the conclusion was accepted by the majority of 97 votes in favour and 1 abstention, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34674	We are going to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 369 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 169. The rules of procedure become an integral part of the final draft law. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, local and regional self-government and spatial planning and construction. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Krešimir Kuterovac will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34675	Here, dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. We have prepared a short presentation here to explain this proposal for a law on state support, agriculture and rural development as well as possible. Given the numerous amendments to the first law that was passed in 2002 and given the amount of news we are introducing, we have decided on a new, whole text of the law. This law provides for an emergency procedure, given that it is in compliance with European Union rules and that the new support system should be applied accordingly to production,... 2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the drafting of this law, two months have been the commission of nearly 80 members in which representatives of different sectors, professional political associations, agricultural producers, cooperatives, craftsmen, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Academic Community, the HUP and trade unions have worked intensively and here are the draft laws. The law also referred to informal consultations in the European Commission, which, with certain comments, assessed the changes made positively. The proposal was also supported by the Economic Social Council. The new system of support for the agriculture sector in the Republic of Croatia follows... the common agricultural policy of the European Union, i.e. the achievement of the objectives of agricultural policy through market price measures, is the first pillar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And rural development policies, the second pillar. Today we are discussing the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, which regulates direct payments and rural development measures. It is in preparation to draw up a proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural products market and a proposal for a law on agriculture. The new direct payments law established for 2009 and 2010 in view of the initial planned year of entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. On the day of entry, Croatia will have to apply the EU's direct payment system in line with the acquis of the European Union. If the entry of the Republic of Croatia is different from this planned year by amending this law we will have to solve the problem of any gap in years. The main objective of the adoption of a new law is to bring domestic legislation into line in the area of market price policy and rural development policy with the common agricultural policy of the European Union. The law should resolve the transitional period until the entry into the European Union in order to better prepare our farmers for the demanding common market in agricultural and food products of the European Union as regards the competitiveness of production, quality and food safety standards and different conditions related to support for the agricultural sector. By adapting state support, it wants to help restructure the economy with an emphasis on small and medium-sized producers and to mitigate the differences between rural and urban areas and rich and poor regions. To adapt domestic support to agriculture, the adoption of a new Law on State Support is held by the European Commission as an informal criterion for closing negotiations in Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development. The European Commissioner for Agriculture, who recently visited us, stressed that it is very important for the European Commission to pass this law because they see the real desire and effort of the Republic of Croatia to prepare as well as possible to join the European Union. When we talk about state aid, it should be said that agriculture is a specific activity and that in Croatia it is of great importance. If we view it as an economic activity, it contributes almost 6% to the gross domestic product and together with the food processing sector as much as 10%. It employs 13.5 total employees and external trade exchange balances negative. But if we compare it to other sectors, there is still a much better situation in agriculture than it is in the economy. However, agriculture is much more than a profit activity, it is a guardian of rural space, its people, environmental guardians, biodiversity, traditions and landscapes, and this tells us that over 50% of the population in Croatia is rural and even 90% of our area is rural space. If we are looking at the period since 2006, there is a trend in a significant increase in agricultural isolation, both to support the sector and to strengthen the administration and public services in agriculture. On this slide you can see that in 2006, total payments were at 2.72 billion and 2009. 4.13 billion kuna. In particular, the amount of money 3.3 billion is intended for the implementation of market price policy measures, rural development policies. The charts also show that in this observed period structural support measures are increasing and that this trend and must continue in the future to transform our incentive system and improve the production of the economy in rural space. When we talk about direct payments, we have a lot of newspapers. And then both under general conditions for the exercise of rights and the changed type of direct payments structure. In order for a Member State to transfer funds from EU funds to its farmers, we must have an accredited paying agency that we have established by law. Such an agency shall implement market targeted policy and structural support measures from direct payments to payments under the rural development programme under pre-defined procedures. The Croatian Parliament recently passed the Act on the Agency and we made assumptions about its establishment and work. The integrated administrative control system is a set of procedures that we take over from the European Union for the authorisation of direct payments includes a register of agricultural holdings, a geo information system for the identification of agricultural land, an identification system, an animal registration and administrative control of requirements, an inspection of users on the ground. The paper is that users will be able to exercise the right to direct payments only with respect to the rules of multiple conformity or in their production they must comply with certain rules that speak about general standards in the protection of the environment, food safety, human health, animals, plants, animal welfare and the application of good agricultural and environmental practices. The law provides for mandatory consultation of farmers and their education. And that is why we have hired the Croatian and Agricultural Advisory Service to educate and inform our farmers about the rules to be applied in the use of state aid. The law simplifies the system of direct payments by reducing the number of incentives, more in plant and less in livestock production and over 100 incentives we came to half. The dynamics of payment are evenly balanced, and it is particularly important to stress that the establishment of general instruments is a key thing for our negotiations in agriculture. The law provides for certain financial discipline, which is the value provided for direct payment. It shall be determined at the level of the production year according to the resources provided in the state budget. This is the total financial envelope for direct payments. The unit amounts of individual payments are set out in the Appendix to one law in the table and represent the maximum amount per single production that can be paid to the beneficiary for the right granted within one production year. However, if requests for... pay within one production year exceeds the total envelope, the unit amount of direct payments shall be reduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law also introduces modulation to change the sector's support structure and reroute the resources of large sustainable users to finance rural development measures and strengthen the competitiveness of small and medium-sized producers. Modulation means reducing direct payments by users for rights above 36,000 kuna at a basic rate of 7% in 2009 and 8% in 2010, and an additional 4% rate for rights above 2 million and 160 000 kuna. Here we have one example of modulation in which this particular agricultural economy is visible in 2009 gets 10% less funding compared to original law. This is about a principle that is identical to the principle of the European Union. At the level of all users, it would save slightly less than 5% of the funds for direct payments aimed at rural development measures. This simple table at the bottom of the slide shows that as many as 85% of our direct payments users are excluded from this reduction. These 85% of users receive around 25% of total funds while the other 15% of economies receive 75% of the support funds. The law changes the current structure of payments in plant production, introduces basic payments for meadows and pastures and basic payments for all other types of agricultural land use, orange culture, multi-annual cultures, vineyards, orchards, olive groves where users receive the same amount of support per hectare regardless of the type of production. Such payments are almost entirely consistent with direct payments as part of the regional single payment model. Production payments per area are other types of payments we also apply to vineyards, orchards, olive groves, seed crops, sugar beet, vegetables, healing plants, strawberries, hops and other plants. We are introducing payment per product unit, i.e. we are not introducing, but it is reserved for tobacco which is a transitional form of payment, and the fate of these support will be decided after 2010. Mostly red-labelled direct slide payments will not be possible in the European Union. As regards the structure of payment in livestock, the transformation of direct payments shall differentiate the production-related payments which will be able to be maintained even after entering the European Union. It's breast-feeding cows, sheep and goats. And production-related payments during the transitional period, where some of these items would also try to result in a form of specific support after 2011 through funding from national funds. And here, too, red is marked payments that will not be applicable in this way in the European Union. We now find ourselves, if we compare our support and support system in the European Union, we see that they are very different. With this new law, we have made a major step in the approximation and legislative legislation of the European Union. And of course, in the European Union, we will apply their legal gain. In particular, in order to show us the relationship between the old and new laws, we have made simulations, a couple of simulations on real agricultural economies, with certain assumptions, that the 100% amount of the single original payments and without applying the mechanism to modulation. Of course there are winners and losers in that simulation depending on the structure and volume of production. So the income from direct payments is only seen in those economies which are mostly their share of production based on seed production, fruit material production and bee farming. All other combinations mainly lead to a rise in income or ensure an existing level of payment. On this slide, we have an agricultural holding in northwestern Croatia, mixed plant-stocer production 28 ha, 15 cows, 68000 liters of milk. You see in the structure of these incentives as regards these incentives, and the columns show that in 2009, we have a trend in growth. In 2010, there is a decrease in this growth, but compared to 2008, we have 22% of the support for this agricultural economy. Our next example is eastern Croatia, the company “Ratarstvo” 3939 ha. The economy processes, means it deals exclusively with military production and with a significant share in seed production. It uses corn, soy, sunflower, barley, rape, soybeans. Compared to 2008, there will be a decline of about 5%, a fall in direct payments in 2009 and 2010, and that is the largest part of the decline is related to seed production. The next example is one trade from 432 ha military production from eastern Croatia. The economy deals exclusively with military production, produce different cereals, sugar beet, soybeans and seed crops. There will also be a decline of around 10% in 2010 compared to 2008. Central Croatia next example, mixed plant-stocer production, 26 ha, 30 cows, 108000 liters of milk. In this case, compared to 2008, there is no reduction in the income from direct payments, and the receipts are even slightly increasing. Example of northwestern Croatian company, mixed plant-stocer production at 95 ha and 500 head hero in tova. In this example, compared to 2008, there will be no decline in reception but the receipts increase by approximately 10% Adriatic Croatia's family agricultural economy mixed 6.5 hectares of production, fruit growing, olives and vegetables. In this economy, the simulation also shows that the receipts increase. In addition to direct payments, we also regulate rural development measures. It defines three groups of basic measures that are consistent with the European model, or we can say three priority areas of action. These are measures to improve the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, to preserve and improve the environment and landscapes, measures to improve the quality of life in rural areas, measures to diversify the rural economy. The law also creates a legal basis for the adoption of a national rural development programme that will identify targeted support measures in line with the current needs and problems of rural areas. The infrastructure necessary for the implementation of rural development measures towards the EU standards is justified. It is high time we brought our law into line with some of our future developments in agriculture towards the European Union, to give clear guidance to our agricultural producers in which they should adapt our agricultural production, in which direction certain changes will take place in order to adapt the future of agriculture in Europe in time. During the adoption of this law, we also had quality discussions and on committees where here it may be necessary to further clarify that this law provides for certain changes in the support provided by local and regional units, and this was needed primarily for the reason that our commitments to the VTO give us the obligation to make these changes and also towards the future of Croatian agriculture in the European Union. In order to protect the single market for agricultural products, Europe is practicing strict rules for the so-called State support outside the scope of the common agricultural policy and financed from their own budgets. All measures are prohibited which in any way per kilogram, per piece, per hectare, the throat that are assigned by way of a scheme of the European Union at the level of direct payments. This bill introduces the possibility that units of local self-government in the transitional period until entry into force, so by the end of 2010, they can be supported in the same way as so far allocated and at the end of 2010, local self-government units will be able to finance the rural development measures provided for by this law, they are indeed very diverse, very extensive, and there is certainly plenty of space and opportunities for our agriculture and farmers to be helped. And all programmes will have to be uniquely found to pass the approval of the Ministry of Agriculture because we are obliged to report to the European Union all the support we have in Croatia and for this reason we are introducing both the Register of Support and the obligation to report to the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34676	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? For European integration? For agriculture, fishing and rural development? The chairman of the committee of Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34677	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development discussed it at the 22nd session of the Bill on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development as a parent working body. Representatives of agricultural producers, cooperative alliances, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of crafts, Croatian Peasants' Union and the Croatian Hunting Union participated in the debate. The opening statement was tabled by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. In 2002, the debate found that the adoption of new legislation in the area of agriculture and the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry made a certain step. However, almost seven years after the results show that agricultural production is not treated as an economic branch that can significantly affect the level of social gross product in Croatia since it has all the assumptions. When it comes to support, it is important to assess the situation today in agriculture. However, as pointed out in the debate, the legal provisions on the submission of a green report to the Croatian Parliament are not respected. Information on balance sheets, needs and surpluses in agricultural production would be important. There is a trend in the growth of financial support in agricultural production but there is also a trend in the growth of imports of agricultural products. It has been pointed out that it is absurd that the large producers who receive and support are both large importers. The debate indicated that there has been progress in raising long-term plantations but there is no significant change in the structure where grains continue to dominate in plant production. The main objective of each agricultural production has not been achieved, and this is income stability, so large oscillations do not give any safety to the agricultural producer. As a significant difficulty in the environment in the debate, the dramatic increase in the direction of state monopoly companies or state-owned companies has been highlighted. The example for this is the two-digit collection of mineral fertilisers and the collection of blue diesel at the moment when the harvest begins and prepares for the autumn seed. It's not a good thing there hasn't been an adequate model of funding in agriculture yet. The importance of creating future development of agriculture within the National Rural Development Programme is highlighted, which will allow the specificity of units of local and regional self-government to be respected. The national rural development programme should be adopted in haste. It is expressed dissatisfaction that it is not envisaged to encourage vegetable production in plastic-glass areas outside the incentive by a hectare of production as well as on the external surfaces. The debate also presents concrete comments and questions on specific articles. Articles that regulate the definition of certain concepts in the law should consider the possibility of introducing a difference between owners and owners in such livestock, as often owners provide livestock, food for goods and veterinary services and, according to the present proposal, the owner would receive support for cattle not owned by the owner. Article 8 discusses the fulfilment of the conditions of multiple consent and raises the question of the education of our agricultural producers and, accordingly, the possibility of achieving support. It is also argued that Article 9 should also be made possible to other entities such as The Croatian Chamber of Commerce says that if it meets the needs prescribed by the minister, it can deal with the advisory role in cross-sectoral compliance. In view of Article 19, the question has been raised as to how many registered agricultural producers in the VAT system today and how much beyond that system and how much more will be included in the income tax system by the end of 2009. The Minister informed members of the Committee that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would amend Article 19 by amendment. The reference to Article 23(2) was also made, it is said that in northwestern Croatia there is almost no one who will be able to make a basic payment for meadows and pastures because there are almost no two conditional throats per hectare of meadows and pastures. Article 43 shall also determine payment for breeding feathers. It has been estimated that given our self-sufficiency in peradar production, the same should not also encourage the issue of aid for peradar farms. Article 54 also regulates measures to improve the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, the importance of measures for the establishment and development of producer groups and producer organisations through support as well as the development and implementation of producer group programmes, organisations and associations of producers. This article also relates to Appendix 4 concerning rural development measures, i.e. the support intensity and Article 63 under which the total amount cannot be greater than the share, or up to 50%. Article 55 is governed by the obligation to implement the agricultural environmental programme and the need for disdain is expressed that the programme is not yet available. Article 58(3) lays down measures to strengthen the local community through support. The importance of local action groups has been highlighted as they form from the bottom up, and they articulate and adopt strategies. Appendix 4 limits the intensity of the support to 55 thousand kuna per year. These funds are insufficient and local action groups will not be able to run for withdrawal of European Union funds and structural funds. The applicant reported that these funds are intended only for the work of action groups and specific programmes are financed in particular. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34678	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Self-Government? The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34679	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. What is the first question is being imposed here, for so long why Minister Pankretic does not come to the parliament. I don't think that's right because you're a man asking who it is then who runs the Department of Agriculture. But if I didn't use some phrases here right now, it would be just as good to know how much money there is at this point in the Ministry of Agriculture. We can see he's not in the country for the first quarter of 2009. The GDP drops 6.7%, it's a disaster, so the hardest period is just following us, probably after the presidential election. The Croatian economy cannot recover before the end of 2010, provided we have one decent season. Croatia will not avoid intervention by the IMF early next year after the elections. The budget deficit at the moment is over 10 billion kuna, will it be for wages, etc. On the other hand, we see that the vice-presidents of the government, Mr Polancec and Kosor have recently made promises that a kilo of wheat will be bought in this country for 1.25 kuna, a kilo of rape oil for 2.5 kuna, that a liter of milk will be purchased for 2.2 kuna and Minister Pankretic has calculated that is why it should be found in the ministry at this time of some billion and 500 million kuna. Those who make such promises that this will happen and they know very well what economic and fiscal movements are really misleading the Croatian public, their word keeps water as a sieve, these promises are science fiction, throwing sand into the eyes and thus needlessly destroying authority, as the ministries clearly do so by government itself. I know the prime minister needs political peace until the presidential election, but I don't think it's possible to perform anyway. What's also important, we see an assessment of the necessary means to implement this law. It says here that no additional resources are needed, obviously that doesn't match the truth. Every law costs, it clearly costs to enforce this law. However, what I think is the key, what is certainly most important, lies or stands here on page 26. where it is said about the types of direct payments per year and the corresponding unit amount. So we see that almost all cultures in 2010 are represented with smaller amounts than they are in 2009. So for example, the seed of potatoes per hectare direct payment, so far it was 6,750 kuna, now it will be 2,750 kuna, the seed of tobacco sunflower is now 4,750, 2010 will be 2,750. Corn seed, this is 2009. 2,750, 2010 750 kuna for hectare, wheat seed rye, barley, tooth 250 was kuna in 2009 will now be 240. The seeds of other cultures fall from 550 to 250 kuna, vegetables, industrial production from 750 to 450 kuna, and not to list all these incentives that are in the year ahead, incomparably smaller or more are reduced compared to the incentives of 2009. So I'm curious about what those tables you showed us that we didn't have in this report will look like after the start of 2010. If this happens that all these incentives defacto start falling so drastically, then we need to understand our farmers and absolutely not only support them in protests but join them in such protests. By my judgment, these people must not be reduced in revenue. It may not be necessary to correct prices for certain products in 2009 because there is obviously no money for this, but in 2010, incentives must remain as they were or were this year 2009. Someone can say no money, someone will say it'll be good if pensions and salaries are paid. It's all like that. Look, somebody's gonna say what's going on in some other industries in the Republic of Croatia since the shipbuilding that just went bankrupt, four shipyards are sold for one kuna. The only shipyard that works solidly, Ulnik, so you need to privatize it, I invite you not to do so. Let's see, someone will say, what are the opportunities in the textile, woodworking and export auto industry, etc., etc. But no matter what, I believe that the incomes of these farmers on that basis from this side of the 26th must remain as they were this year. What is also interesting in general about subsidies when we look at data from the state budget we see that in the first four months they are reduced by 337 million kuna. In such circumstances, when we see that everything around us is unfortunately collapsing, additional pressure on the budget, finding these billions and a half kunas for agriculture, I'm afraid at this point it might even be cutting the branch we're sitting on. I do not know where to find them, and if it is possible to find them, then we should subsidise interest to both exporters and farmers and shipowners so that they can order ships and textiles and wood processing industry and small craftsmen, etc., and not so that later, the following years and farmers and others through subsidies can pay certain fees. I mentioned that in 2010, farmers certainly get less from the state than in 2009. Unfortunately, all in 2010 will have far less if the state policy does not radically change, the best thing would be to change power because neither the government structure will bring anything or bring anything, but about it at some other time. It is also interesting to add to the rural development measure on page 29. These are certain support to the income of the holding up to 12,000 kuna per year, early retirement of holders and members of the family holding up to 130 thousand kuna per holder per year, support for young farmers for the takeover of resources to the agricultural holding up to 400,000 kuna once. There is still a capital investment to restructure the modernisation of the agricultural holding for young farmers in areas with difficult management conditions up to 65%, for others up to 50%, etc., etc. Indeed ambitious, however, if this is to be achieved, money needs to be found first in the state budget, and in order for the budget to have money to boost those branches I was talking about, from exports via shipping, textile, wood-processing, car and other industries that are almost gone at this time in the Republic of Croatia. One of the most effective measures for "passive landscapes" is it, gentlemen, which is expressed in the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area. I ask that this law not be abolished, i.e. that you do not mess with the amendments to the laws with the premises in central Istria, Gorski kotar, because there are indications that this law will change. Don't do that, because if everyone is talking about how they're gonna block the border crossings and stuff like that, why don't you say those Central Istria residents block the tunnel like the villagers in Zagreb did, if someone cuts their incomes overnight. I'm really asking you gentlemen, don't do this, don't change that law. I'll say, I've spoken many times at this pay phone, no kuna so to speak from the budget comes for any economic operator in Istria, even the Istrian highway builds itself by concession, not through HAK. No kuna comes for the recovery of any business subject, the shipbuilding doesn't get a single kuna of guarantees and I don't count any further. On page 2 of this material that we have had the opportunity to read, which we have received, it is literally said that the law simplifies the system of direct payments by reducing the number of incentives, more in the plant, less in livestock production and equating the dynamics of payments for certain types of direct payments, keeping the monthly payment dynamics for the most important incentives, the production of milk. And here the modernisation or reduction of direct payments by users for rights above 36,000 kuna at a basic rate of 7% in 2009 and 8% in 2010, and an additional 4% rate for rights above 2 million 160 thousand kuna savings on direct payments are transferred to finance rural development measures. The implementation of direct payments is in the jurisdiction of the newly established paying agency, so they are also indicated here that certain funds will be cut rather than further secured. I repeat, in this country, especially when it comes to 2010, I would rather express myself worse than better. Farmers should fight not to worsen their opportunities for subsidies and others in 2010, to retain existing incentives, the principles of the 2009 incentive, and not to radically change all this. As the question also arises, how questionable is it to ask that some cultures pay them 50, 60, 70% above stock prices. But what do we do? Mrs. Kosor and Polancec have promised and we will now see if this country will already provide billions and 500 million kuna in the early budget for their promise. I have the impression that these promises have certain political shopping messages to express my peace until the presidential election. But I think that throwing dust into the eyes was for farmers, and that someone in the government should be carrying certain sequencings. That's right. Thank you. I'm glad they support me at the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34680	A man often misreads the signs. The HSS club, Mr. Sergeant Zdravko Kelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34681	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law on state support in agriculture. At the moment when agriculture was really talked about, it was discussed, so we also remember recently everything that happened here in Zagreb and beyond in Croatia and of course that topic also requires special attention. What is the main objective of passing this law? It is an adjustment with the European Union law and in order for our producers to be able to prepare better, better, better in 2009 2010 and hopefully enter the European Union in 2011. I'm not gonna be a pessimist, so tell me in 2012. It means that we can handle all the difficulties that are certainly waiting for us there. Is our peasant ready today, is this time enough for him to adapt to all that awaits him, to all those challenges, to all that will certainly be for him and new? What we are offered through this Act of Support certainly opens a new chapter and certainly gives us a space where our producers can get into production more easily, and they can adapt more easily. What is important to me here, which is that those who, up to 36,000 kuna in one year, receive support do not reduce that support, and these are more than 80% in Croatia and this is a special goal and, in my view, this bill, to preserve those family economies that can make a profit for themselves through this support, for their family. And those who make up to 36,000 kunas are the vast majority in Croatia, and if we look at something more than 160,000 at this time of family economies in Croatia, then we can see how many people are involved. Those who make more than 36,000 kunas will reduce the rate of 7% this year from 8% next year to 2000 160 kuna. Those who are beyond that will, of course, be reduced by an additional 4%. It's good that those who are bigger might get me wrong, but I think it's good to take bigger ones and get smaller ones, try to motivate the smaller ones to get them into a group of the ones and the middle ones, and certainly the ones who are the biggest ones to take the most. These are things that certainly turn out to be good, but of course we can't escape from the truth. I have to tell you what our reality is. Our reality today is extremely difficult. This is what we can see here today, and yesterday, where a certain dairy house announces that it will close about 120 ransom places for all those who produce milk. That's what's not good. It's our reality, and we have to open up here to say that we have to deal with every buyout place, that we have to fight so that every producer can get their weight of meat, their product that they produce and sell. If we don't make that move, no matter how hard it is, no matter how painful it is, no matter how much the ministry says there's room and no space, we just have to give extra effort and go in that direction to help these producers, these people. I can say an opinion on behalf of the HSS Club. The capital investments that have taken place in the last year and some days have been raised, we all know with 25, 40 and 50%, they've also produced good results. A lot of money was invested, people's help went. But we ask whether it is ultimately the right solution, that we may not ask ourselves to try to reduce these capital investments today, and try to reroute money to those who produce milk, meat or other products. It's nice to see a man driving a 50, 100,000-euro tractor, and at the same time he says I can't survive, I'm going to fail. If we go in the direction of saying we won't give 40% more of these people to buy those tractors, we'll give them maybe 10.20%, but at the same time withdraw the money and tell them. The one producing milk at the price of that and that, and we know that today the price of milk is higher in Croatia than the price of milk in the countries of the European Union. And that way we can't even compete with them, so we can pull that money back and try to point it in this direction so that we can stimulate with more money the people who produce this milk and thus open up one more quality and better space for all those who produce these products or similar products. I'm sure it's going to be a lot of problems, but I believe that with these measures that have shown good results so far, because the result is seen from money, we want to admit it or not. As much money as you have, you can afford it. This year what's through the budget I hope is secured, but I believe it will pay off and everything that's agreed on, everything that's promised, we can certainly say that there's much more money than it was two years ago and it certainly opens up a space for bigger money to be realized next year. That's what gives us the guarantee that we can all achieve the goals we want together, but at the same time we have to ask ourselves what happens in two years when our man enters. Whether this number of family economies will shrink if they want to do anything with these people. Today is the cheapest job in agriculture, believe it or not, the cheapest, the least investment goes there, and we get a job that is very important today when the situation is complex and we can all witness it. The Croatian Peasant Party's club supports this law and we believe that it will continue in the future in these two years. But of course we believe that these two years are transitional, that behind that this will be just a springboard for something that can open a brighter future for all those who deal with this production. So thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34682	Thank you. HNS MPs' club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34683	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The reform of state aid in agriculture is not only important because of our entry into the European Union. Conversely, it is primarily important for the survival and progress of Croatian agriculture. And unfortunately, so far, we've kept the support situation more or less, and then people who deal with agriculture in some kind of frozen time machine in a situation with aids de facto in front of our eyes disappear. One model of aiding or financing in agriculture that is already or before our eyes becomes the past. Both the aim of this law and all reforms within agriculture, but particularly state aid must be to enable people in agriculture to gradually, so that they are given enough time to adapt to new market conditions and to adapt to new models and incentives and ways of behaviour in agriculture standing at the door. As far as this law is concerned, it has a label on the proposal for a law of Europe, so P.Z.E., although only a third part or a third chapter of that law, so rural development relates to harmonisation of legislation with the European Union. Everything else actually relates to, and everything else is provisions relating to direct payments and which apply before Croatia enters the European Union, so it is not about European harmonisation, but about one situation that is different from those in the European Union and we in the HNS club think is a problem because the whole idea and should be that people start preparing for a new model of incentives and that by entering the European Union they do not find themselves in an unembarking situation and in some kind of jump from one model and incentives and financing into something completely different, from the criteria by which the incentives will be given to the way in which the incentives will be given to the types of projects for which the incentives will be given. So as far as the project types are concerned, I'd like to say something on behalf of the HNS Club about areas we haven't explored as a possibility and used as an incentive for agriculture, which are in the first row of two areas. One is rural development, and the other is environmental protection. And for rural development there are funds that may not be directly in this regard incentives such as direct payments, but they absolutely finance projects that also help competitiveness in agriculture and the development of agriculture. Other funds are important and large to protect the environment from which we can also, if we know and thus focus on drawing up a large part of de facto support, or aid for agricultural production. As for what we're about to do, we're mostly going towards a unique model of payments in agriculture. At this point in Croatia, we have about 200 different kinds of incentives that are being paid. By different criteria, without structure and without a clear picture and some order in these incentives, it is a huge amount of money that does not produce the desired or possible effect that such amount of money could produce if these different 200 kinds of incentives were structured into a single system and would be known for what and under what circumstances and conditions and criteria the incentives are paid for. What we have to go towards, no matter what we do, is a unique model of payment, and that's certainly something we should start working on. Now, to some extent, this law is little and goes in that direction, but the very fact that all serious restructuring is delayed for the post-entry of the European Union shows that farmers, peasants, farmers, farmers are not preparing for new conditions to be found. The 4th point that we in the HNS Club consider important to enable agricultural producers to prepare for the major changes ahead of us and in the first place before them, which is, there is no doubt, one of the key points of both the Foundations and the Croatian economy and even the identity if you will, and the competitiveness at European level is that within Croatian agriculture there are no priorities. At the moment our agricultural producers get a chance to present and compete on the European market of half a billion inhabitants, at the same time all European producers where food is a market that is largely broken down by these key food products and these large producers will be able to find themselves on the Croatian market. It is therefore logical that we now determine those areas in agriculture in which we are based on an analysis of the European market and our situation, we have the opportunity to be competitive on that big market. These are certainly not all products, but there is no doubt that there are niches, there are segments, parts of agricultural production in which we can be competitive, not only when we enter the European Union on the domestic market, but also on a much wider and perhaps a common European market. In order to take advantage of this comparative advantage and to determine these niches within agricultural production where we and our agricultural producers can be competitors, we need to make some kind of priority in agricultural production that we will stimulate, where we will make it easier for people to reorient from what they are now producing, and where there is no way of being competitive on the European market, to reorient on that production where they will be able to be competitive on the European market. That's not there either. And this is largely a death sentence to a large number of agricultural producers. Because if the moment we enter the European Union is going to wait for people to start reorienting and deciding for themselves what the priorities are, and even if at that moment the Government is able to set priorities, it will be too late. Priorities must be known. It's already too late, but at least now. This is a prerequisite for any of these reforms that are inaugurally introduced or introduced or at least indicate that it makes real sense and has real results when it starts to be implemented. Fifthly, one of the areas in which, unlike most other areas in agriculture, in which it will remain for a longer term, the possibility of direct payments are special areas of what we have called and we call special areas of special state care, so mountain and mountain areas, border areas. For those areas where there will be opportunities for direct payments to be made in agriculture, a specific strategy should also be made in this regard. Seven, the quality of life in the country that contributes, on the one hand, to the retention of people in the country and on the other, to entrepreneurship in agriculture, so to view agriculture as a form of economic activity and a kind of entrepreneurship, not as a traditional way of life. Through Rural Development Funds, Croatia must be placed in a position to promote projects to improve the quality of life in the country, especially for young people. In order to make them, because they are the only potential and possible holders of a different approach to agriculture, which is agriculture as an economic activity and entrepreneurship. Eight. When you look at the first common agricultural policy of the European Union, the second new models of incentives, the third reforms that this law has introduced in some way, and which will have to be far, far more radical and significant than this law has passed, it is clear that, for people to compete for projects, to be able to understand at all how they will qualify for incentives, professional assistance is needed. So, you need knowledge, you need education, you need one place where everyone can go and ask what needs to be done to qualify under the new incentive model. It won't be anymore, I give my friends incentives, and to those who aren't my friends, I don't give any more incentives. This must become a unique, recognizable, clear criterion and model for the assignment of incentives. For such professional assistance, we should have at least 50 centres in Croatia at the moment where this knowledge can be obtained locally. Thus, this professional assistance and information where people will be available so that they can manage the new situation at all. Finally something we don't really imagine, which we all kind of know, but maybe we didn't connect. In this difficult financial situation, that is, the economic crisis that we are in, but we're more concerned. Croatia has de facto two sources or potential sources or model incentives. One is SAPARD, or European funds, and the other is our own money, our own taxpayers through the incentives given by the Croatian state. It is almost unimaginable but true that we, the European Union's money for aid in agriculture, are hardly using or using minimally. And we give incentives from our taxpayers' money. One of the arguments was farmers do not have enough assets and money to guarantee those assets they must provide, so they cannot cover with their assets guaranteeing the funds. However, if a third of the money given as an incentive were put into the State Guarantee Agency that would guarantee that for farmers and farmers, instead of using the money of our taxpayers, we could use the money of European funds that remains this way not used. Even if half of the people don't pay back their debts and the state has to cover it, that's still one-sixth of what we pay today in incentives. And as we know, peasants, if there's no one more reliable in repaying debts, I don't know him than peasants. Therefore, if there is a net certainty who will repay their debts, they are these agricultural producers. Therefore, instead of spending our taxpayers' money to share it anyway, it would be wise to use that money for the State Guarantee Agency, and to spend real aid in agriculture and to prepare for these reforms, the money of European funds that we have spent in this area absolutely minimally so far. So the HNS club supports 'let's say the direction this law wants to go, but it's a little drop in the sea of what it should actually do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34684	Thank you. SDP representative's club Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34685	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of the new Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development will significantly change the current system of these supports and raises the question of how far we are prepared for this change. We estimate that there has been no need to move in the restructuring of agricultural production over the past period despite the constant increase in budgetary resources for these purposes. Unfortunately, the funds were used as a substitution for high production prices rather than to increase competitiveness and change the structure. When a new aid law was adopted in 2002, with the promotion of production and support of income, capital investment and support for rural development meant some progress but remained primarily in the promotion of production afterwards. The time wasted cannot be quickly compensated, so we expect significant problems for the part of the farmer when this law is fully applied in 2011. The assessment of the situation lacks an assessment of the activities and results achieved so far to assess the future effects of new support models and the willingness of manufacturers to use them. Croatia's agriculture has not recovered from the transition shock, on the one hand, the privatisation of large agricultural combinations and processing companies to which farmers' economies were linked, and on the other hand the transition to the market economy. In addition, abandoning funding from the primary mission in Croatia has not been built a new appropriate system of financing agriculture depending on its characteristics, hence long production cycle, low turnover of capital. The aim of each country is to ensure the safety and quality of the food of the population and the stability of the income of the producer through agricultural production. Unfortunately, we have not achieved these two goals in Croatia. Croatia is a net importer and agricultural and food products despite large production resources for agricultural production. For example, in 2007, imports amounted to 1.6 billion euros, exports of 981 million and a record deficit was achieved in the trade of agriculture and food industry even in the period from the beginning of the 1990s. The increase in funding from the state support budget did not result in a change in the structure and level of production. The share of support for agriculture in the state budget was increased only in three years, so from 2% in 2005 to 3% in 2008 and from 2 billion 68 million to 3 billion 827 million kuna, respectively. At the same time, we note a decrease in the physical volume of total agricultural production by 8.7 and 2007 by 3.9% and only in 2006 modest growth of 4.4%. During that period, the foreign trade deficit for agricultural products rose to around 2 billion kuna on average. There are no visible shifts nor in increasing competitiveness, security of income and sufficientness. Competitiveness is low for a number of reasons, reduced ownership, low technological equipment, unfavourable age and educational structure of the manufacturer, high price of reproductive material. State monopolies that produce mineral fertiliser or blue diesel have a significant impact on the production prices of agricultural products and also high taxes. For example, in the VAT system there is a small number of producers, therefore they cannot use the benefits of value added tax. Competitiveness is also affected by undeveloped economic infrastructure, primarily marketable and communal in rural areas. The structure of production is unfavourable, the grains are dominated primarily by corn and wheat, and with low competitiveness, there is constant pressure on the country and on the rise in prices. In cereals we have annual surpluses while with other products we have significant oscillations especially in livestock production and significant shortages in fruit and vegetables production. We do not have effective projects to round up land that would be taken over by the state, such as a commercial project, as a complex arrangement of space and land books. Climate conditions have a significant impact on production and a slow implementation of the irrigation and disposal project is therefore a major damage to the state budget and minimal to the user. There is little talk about the need to adapt education programmes in agricultural professions that must focus on the needs of the family economy and on continuous education. It is only in this law that the obligation to consult farmers with multiple compliance provided by the advisory service is introduced and is an obligation for all users who are entitled to direct payments of more than 36,000 kuna. Rural development is only now more serious and Croatia is an extremely rural area. It includes 92% of the territory, 89% of the violence and 48% of the population. The rural area in Croatia is highly underdeveloped because only 8% has a balanced development and only 5% notes growth. Therefore, with the adoption of the National Rural Development Strategy, it should in fact encourage regional units to adopt specific rural development strategies for their areas. Our advantages related to the conservation and fertility of land, to quality water resources and coastal work, which represents almost ideal conditions for the development of agriculture are largely untapped. As a result, the shortcomings seen in small possessions, adverse age and educational structure and non-organisation of agriculture and underdeveloped market and other infrastructure are emerging. State support through rural development measures is modest. In 2008, only 173 million kunas were paid. SAPARD funds that close on 1.10 this year have also been used poorly. Out of a total of 111 million kuna agreed by the end of 2008, 45% were used and expected to move around 64% after the fourth tender. So far, agricultural aid has been dominated by direct payments through two models, promotion of production through a large number of products and a model of income support for non-commercial economies. We estimate that the funds invested did not get the desired results, which would mean greater competitiveness and ensure a change of structure, but had the role of reducing disparity and social character. The introduction of the so-called the structural measures implemented through the model of capital investment and rural development have arrived too late and the funds for these purposes have been slowly increased. Despite more favourable capital investment funds, they are still too expensive because agricultural investments are high with a long period of return. In addition, large oscillations on the market and in prices create uncertainty and questionable possibility of repaying credit. The bill makes important changes to the system of direct payments as we apply today in Croatia. Given that they are up to 20% higher at the moment than in the European Union, their reduction as well as the change in the model will inevitably occur. When it comes to the income support model, it will exist by the end of 2010 and will be replaced by measures from the rural development programme relating to early retirement and self-supply. For the application of the law, it is also necessary to adopt a series of implementing rules. For example. the conditions which are now to be met for the realisation of production support and relating to certified seed and agrotechnical measures are being replaced by good agricultural and environmental conditions which are yet to be defined. The law also prescribes the keeping of certain records relating to support, support users, control and use of agricultural land. Article 19 laid down that by 1 January 2010, the holder of the family holding must have income tax status as a condition for applying for direct payments. This condition has been delayed several times so far, and the question is how will now be met by the holder of the family holding, i.e. how many countries will help to ensure the management of business books through example. education or payment of software. The government intervened with the amendment to this article, reintroducing a transitional period but it would be good to provide these conditions during this transitional period. The paper is also a restriction of support provided by units of local and regional self-government, which requires the ministry's consent. The law is related to negotiating Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development covering a large number of binding rules. Correct application and control are necessary for the functioning of the European common agricultural policy. The management of the common agricultural policy involves building a management and quality system and the ability to implement rural development measures. We estimate we're late for this assignment. The amendments to the Aid Act a year ago have taken a step back and now in just a few months we have to build infrastructure and prepare manufacturers for a new way of achieving agricultural support. The proposed law is in line with European legislation. It introduces order and control in production but will have significant problems in use. The SDP club will vote in favour of passing the law, but we expect accelerated activities by the resolution ministry to ensure the necessary assumptions for their application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34686	Thank you. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. He's gone. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34687	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. We have before us a law that because of the area it regulates, therefore, one of the most important areas of agricultural policy, we can say that it is also in some way a kind of minimal reform of agriculture. Since we decided in the Republic of Croatia, we have determined that support should not and should not be an instrument of social policy and since we have strictly separated production support from income support which we have solved the problem of a part of the older rural population that has mainly produced for our own needs, since then support in the Republic of Croatia has become one of the key mechanisms for implementing agricultural policy. The quality of the support and the determination of their level in early 2004 through various operational programmes has intensified the structural reforms of Croatian agriculture and started the process of strengthening intensive and high income agricultural production. Capital support has been increased that has contributed to structural reforms, as more money has been going into equipment, going into machinery, irrigation, building livestock farms, raising permanent plantations, orchards, vineyards, olive groves, therefore in intensive production that generates higher income and competitiveness for our producers. It should also be said that the implementation of operational programmes for the raising of permanent plantations and the development of livestock production has also produced significant effects in increasing the production of fruit, grapes, olives, meat and milk. And this is also particularly important to us now in the negotiating system with the European Commission because we are negotiating ceilings of support and production quotas, taking into account statistical periods, so three or five years and where it is clear that if we have a higher quantity of production and on a larger production area, there are even greater penalties for larger production quotas. That is why structural reforms need to be discussed as part of the support debate. In fact, it is interesting that 10 new Member States that entered 2005 are still receiving 25% of the support from farmers in other countries that are old members of the European Union. First of all, for reasons not to put these agricultural producers to sleep in some way and not to combine structural reforms. So, in that sense, these incentives should be stimulating. What should be pointed out as a problem in support policy, therefore, that all the countries that have joined the European Union have been in a kind of cross-country. In fact, the European Union has huge surplus problems while, on the other hand, the surplus means all agricultural production and, on the other hand, the country that enters the European Union, which are accessions such as today, the Republic of Croatia has a problem with the deficit, therefore, with a shortage in the production of almost all agricultural products. And there's now a key problem that every government faces, and so is ours how to solve this gap between these two policy incentives. Where we, as Croatia, want to increase support, we want to increase production, strengthen our agricultural producers, have larger production quantities etc.. On the other hand, we must accept and enter a system of support that reduces and supports, as the European Union has surpluses in all productions. Therefore, through this law we need to resolve this gap in support and that it is certainly not simple and that our farmers, as well as our ministry, are facing the problem. If we do not make the support system the way it is in the European Union, then both legislative and institutionally there must first of all be highlighted so-called. LPIS systems, IAX systems, setting up a paying agency, etc., we will not be able to raise a euro of support from the European Union without such accredited systems. Therefore, unless we have these accredited institutions. Therefore, unless we have these accredited institutions, unless we have a system of support legislation such as in the European Union, we will not be able to withdraw support from the European Agricultural Fund, but we will also not be able to withdraw those incentives related to cohesion funds and structural funds. So as a country of accession, we don't have that much maneuvering space. It should also be said that four radical reforms of agricultural policy have been made in the European Union in the last 15 years and all four reforms relate to the incentive system. The problem is constantly with this surplus in the production of which the European Union has. It cannot place these surplus productions on the market, nor can it go to third countries because it would thus disrupt price policy, disrupt prices on the market and cause problems for its agricultural producers. So this is the system of support that we and this law are going under. We can't avoid it, so we have to make adjustments, we have to institutionally adapt because we won't be able to push through those support. But we also need to bear in mind all of these problems that we are facing as an accession country which, on the other hand, must strengthen its own agricultural production so that today our agricultural producers are competitive with producers in the European Union. The European Union is moving towards the system of'single one payment', which means a single payment per farm, whose key objective is to preserve agricultural production, but on the other, so that this production is sustainable, but not to be supported by quantity, so by product, because they no longer want to have problems with these huge surpluses where the storage problems are, especially when it comes to meat, expensive storage in freezers, etc. It goes to this system where it wants to increase the quality of these products, where it wants to comply with the highest standards of animal welfare, environmental protection, etc., therefore it goes towards a system of multiple incentives. And that's what's prescribed in this new aid law. Therefore, not so much to go to the quantity as to the quality of the product, because then on the other hand when you look at the relationship with third countries, so in which production is very cheap, they can generally compete with therefore high quality standards, but also condition these high standards of environmental protection and animal welfare. Provisions of this law that regulate an extremely important area of institutional adjustment are also important. First of all, it is a paying agency as a roof institution for the payment of support and supervision of the payment of support. She needs to be trained. This is due to the withdrawal of funds from European funds, or from the European budget. But on the other hand, why is it important to establish this surveillance system and the agency? An example should be given, we have already brought it here, when Slovenia enters the European Union and the establishment of a paying agency is discovered that 70% of the incentives are not deliberately paid. Of these 70% of the incentives is part of the incorrectly met requirements, etc., but half of them were related to fraud with incentives. Therefore, setting up a paying agency is not just some new administration but is a system that has the possibility of monitoring and satellite monitoring, etc., support, therefore, a system that should prevent aid fraud. We can hope that the situation is not so drastic with us, but there is no country or accession or member of the European Union that has not met with this problem of support fraud. It's also important that what we're dealing with here is what's called the so-called law. References or as they are referred to as minimum incentive quantities in the law. In fact, we have so far had the situation that our agricultural producers in these agricultural land supply tenders were taking huge quantities of land that were not for the purpose of high income agricultural production, which was not for the purpose of agricultural production that had some concept, etc., but they were taking that land, not applying any agrotechnical measures, so they had cheap production and were earning on high incentives. And that's what's wrong and that's why these benchmarks have to exist, so the minimum of these agrotechnical measures have to be applied, not that someone has just these huge amounts of land and that they actually live well on incentives. Because if it multiplys, it takes 2500 kuna per hectare of wheat, so let's multiply it, let's take some have 100, 150, 200 and more hectares, that's quite a nice manager's salary. And our country on the other hand, we had this Law on Land Policy, and on the other hand, our country is not being properly processed, and in some ways it decreases its value. Also, what's good and what's going on in which direction this law is going, so in a way to limit 100% incentives so over 2.16 million kunas, those users who receive greater incentives mean they have a one-line reduction of 4%, and that also happens with a complete incentive policy, so in the next few years, the incentives are down by 7%. And I think that one of the most important things about this law is that all those who receive incentives over 36,000 kunas have to enter the system of professional counselling, so they will be conducted by the advisory service. So these are already in some way more serious productions that require more investment, but they can also certainly be a great help to our farmers because the market is constantly changing the resources of these agritechnical measures, but they can also be consulted on new opportunities for higher income production. In view of all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34688	Thank you. At 14 o'clock session of the Committee on Gender Equality at Janko Drašković Hall, 2 floor, 202 rooms. It's time to report a ten-minute debate at 13.35. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 3:00 with an individual debate, Mr. Representatives Igor Dragovan, Gordan Maras, Denesh Soja etc. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to discuss the final draft law on state support for agriculture and rural development. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Agent Denesh Shaw. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34690	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. In this small chamber atmosphere we continue with what is certain for many farmers of Croatia, I particularly consider us from Slavonia and Baranja very much, and that is why my debate on the Agricultural Support Act with this final proposal that we have today at the debate. I would say, first of all, that today's adoption of an emergency procedure is necessary. Unfortunately, however, it seems that once again, we must adopt the law by an urgent procedure because of what Brussels is asking for, and what we have said in previous amendments to the law last year when we passed them, when we said that these changes cannot be in the function of harmonising our law with European views, when we said that these changes were the result of a coalition agreement between the HDZ and the HSS, and not of a law that we will agree these support to the European Union model at that time was one speech in the wind and that we were normally not obeyed as an opposition. Today, when we saw that even attempts by such a law should be incorporated into negotiating chapter 11. That we do not normally have to go and go and propose a new law. However, no one takes responsibility for the missed time for a year, for today they would certainly be more ready for these negotiations, and normally our farmers too would be able to behave differently. The second question raised in the discussion in this law is also the presentation that we had here today. He presented to the Committee on Agriculture and the minister from which it is evident that large funds have been invested, that the most funds have been invested since 2008, more than one previous year. But at the same time, what's going on? At the same time, imports last year of agricultural products were higher than ever before. The debalance of imports-exports is increasing and the normal question is raised that we have often heard in these negotiations that the trade unions have conducted, etc. and a particular question is asked by taxpayers where these aids go, who uses them when our production is so insufficient that imports must be increased. I think that's the basic question why we invest if we don't work things out. I think that's the result of what I said earlier, which is that we've been one of the syphilic ways to support our appetites, or even to be courted by peasants and voters, to increase our support in order to find a group. Last year it was corn, I don't know, so then we'll give it to the pigs and that's how it works. However, the indicators we had from 2007 that talk about the use of support suggest that of the 250 biggest users support the largest and most of them are from a group of these companies. It's only 35 of them from the O.P.G. and about 30 from cooperatives and crafts. Unfortunately, many of those who took the money and had very large amounts are also known importers of these same productions for which they receive support. I think you should consider that one who receives support for a particular product should not be able to import the same product and in some way create and break certain prices of domestic products or if it is imported from the production that we have in Croatia. I don't think you should support that same importer then. Unfortunately, this happens with us, and exactly the biggest firms get the most support, but they're also the biggest importers. One of the problems here today is also Prof. Kovacevic spoke. I said it was in opposition. This was taking support without production or production which is not competitive per product unit. The aim of such producers is to show as many hectares as possible and to obtain that support. I think it was also present these years and that individuals, today I say, were already taking money on it, and at the same time they had no production to justify it. Also in those last changes, I was talking and I disagreed with the question of those caught by inspection services. Then we changed the law that, part of the law where it was said I couldn't get any more support for two years. However, the last time he said they could get an explanation after a year that the practice in the EU is too strict. However, some information and what I heard, let's say Bulgaria did, in Bulgaria it was to cheat on the surfaces and to withdraw as much funds and the result was just to suspend EU funding for Bulgarian agriculture. All of this suggests that we should not play with it, and knowing about it, here is the practice so far, it would be very easy when we enter the European Union and if we withdraw funds we can find ourselves in a similar situation. So, I think it's certainly to welcome more controls that will be paid and this agency that should be paying and other inspection services that should be tied to that control because without that control, I'm afraid we'll get into a situation very quickly so that we too come out loud as producers who are willing to take the money, but not create production. All that we see and the payments mentioned in 2009, 2010 will be subject to further negotiations. We'll keep trying to keep it going, but I don't think it's good and in all the conversations we've had about what foreign consultants are telling us, they're saying we shouldn't do it. Here, because somehow the time is coming to an end, I'd still like to say something about the rural part. I think that's good, it's characteristic that according to the criteria of the international 47.9% of Croatians live in rural areas. What is characteristic of us in Slavonia and Baranja to say 4 municipalities are mostly rural areas, and there is only one part, that is Osijek, it belongs to a significant rural environment. These are certain criteria by which, normally, in such a part of the use of these funds that goes towards rural parts, they need to be used as much as possible and that they should have and implement certain programmes and I think that we will need more money through that part. Therefore, in the end, I think that the adoption of this law, following this law of adoption, remains much work in the domain of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, the Minister himself, because the final provisions itself point to many exceptions present so far and the need for them to regulate the new rules. We here still have a rule on fish where it will give us certain resources, rabbits there is no etc., therefore, only the passing of the law is not yet, much will not be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34691	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34692	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. Well, this is certainly one of the most important laws that Croatia must pass when it comes to adapting our agricultural policy to the one we seek, which is the European Union's agricultural policy. Surely, the coordination that we are doing at several levels, which is primarily at the legislative level, is on the administrative level, and that segment that is most interested in our agricultural producers, which is precisely supporting farmers through monetary incentives in agriculture and through rural development programmes. It is known that in Croatia today, a system of associated payments is applied with a large number of different individual amounts and this depends on the type of products and, of course, such a system differs from that system in the European Union. The budget for support in agriculture in Croatia is growing year by year, I personally as president of the Club of Representatives of the HSS rejoices that the result of the participation of the HSS in Croatia Government is a responsibility for the agriculture portfolio because here we have managed to raise that budget by 30% to 40% and that is, of course, justified and necessary. If this is justified and necessary, they also say the calculations that we have discussed by forming a majority in the Croatian Parliament and, of course, by assembling the Croatian Government because, according to our budgets, Croatia's agriculture has to adapt to the competition, in order to be competitive in the European Union, it is necessary to invest 6 billion kuna annually. Today, the agricultural budget is $4.3 billion, and here, we have witnessed that in recent weeks when Croatian peasants have sought greater investment in agriculture, that exactly 2 billion more of them are missing for dairy farmers, so both cattlemen and wartimers, and of course their efforts in that case should be supported, because they are originally engaged, they live, they feed their family, and since I consider them guardians of Croatian space and Croatian villages, I think they deserve adequate compensation. In this sense, this law is also extremely important because it also brings in a number of newspapers, bringing in a different system that we will all have to get used to because there will be no more payments per product type, but when we enter the European Union something completely different will happen that these payments will go according to family economies. So we can view this law as a kind of adaptation to the European Union, so as the transitional law we are talking about in the system of support in agriculture, and what we must point out is that this adjustment will last 2 to 3 years to our assessment of when Croatia will enter the European Union and have to move on to a completely different system. Today, when we actually observe the system of registers of those who are registered in the agricultural register of family economies, there are some 170 thousand, of those 170 thousand, 81 thousand registered in the register receive incentives, 20 thousand receive income support and what we want to do through this law, but throughout the whole agricultural reform is to achieve better competitiveness on the market. This means that we need to help our producers and through a direct support system for their products, that we need to ensure that they are educated and that they are walking with the latest knowledge, but I also think that our task is to help them organise the market, not to leave them to ourselves, and in particular not to let them be balled by large buyers who earn money from their torture and effort, who are also known as large importers. I, as a representative of the HSS and large importers, cannot support them, condemning their way of conduct because they cross the backs of those young ones earn their profits. That is why I think it is good that one model is introduced through this law, or one modulation, is a European modulation of support, and it applies and is visible through Article 18 of this Act to receive support so that all those receiving support above 36,000 kuna will have a 7% limit in 2009 and 8% in 2010 on these support. While an additional 4% rate goes to those who receive more than 2 million 160 thousand kuna in 2009 and 2010. Namely, why is this 36,000 kuna the limit above which the borders apply? So because exactly 80% of those who receive today's support from these 81 thousand agricultural families are in that category up to 36,000 kuna. I would personally like to introduce through this law a stricter regulation of large producers, because we are aware that they are in some way taking the most part of the support in agriculture. Of course, this law does not apply only to support in agriculture, it also refers to rural development measures which we will certainly use much more power when we enter the European Union. Although here I must congratulate the ministry on the efforts it has made so far, as the data I have shown is that in the last year alone over a thousand 500 family economies have succeeded in using rural development measures through the Ministry of Agriculture. And what does that mean exactly? This means that this money was built small sirens, that the money was built processing facilities for both honey and jam production, and meat, and for the production of kitchens and everything else. And I think that's exactly the big progress we've all been able to make together. For this reason, it is specific employment, i.e. self-employment in agriculture. There are also known data from the Austrian agricultural chambers but also from other neighbouring countries. That every new open place in agriculture opens up two additional jobs with it. And right through these rural development measures, we've employed entire families, family economies. These are people who didn't end up at the employment office, but we assured them that they had a decent existence, and in a way that they would bind everyone else to themselves. I always like to mention a positive example, it's the Androsek family in my county. They moved from Zagreb, had their jobs. They came from Zagreb to the area of special state care in Mali Gorica next to Petrinja started producing cheese, made a small siren. Today they buy from the rest of their local milk. They have cheeses that win the best and greatest medals, the most significant not only in Croatia, but also internationally. And that's the point of just training our farmers, to produce that they have a quality product that consumers want to buy. But to hire themselves and hire others. What you'd like to mention and emphasize here. It seems to me that this is extremely important not only for the aspect of economic production, not only for the aspect of biodiversity in which Croatia is fourth in Europe, but for the aspect of food production, which today is the top topic not only in Croatia and Europe but also in the world. And that's the beekeeper's question, the question of bees that I think must be given better treatment in this law. Especially when it comes to organic honey production. Because scientific evidence is known to exist that if bees disappeared in a particular location, to speed up the disappearance of more than 20,000 plant species, it would negatively affect the entire ecological balance. According to some data, humanity feeds on only 100 crops, and these crops over 70% mostly question bees. And it is estimated that the total value of pollination in agriculture carried out annually is between 1.2 billion and 5.2 billion euros. That is why I think it is extremely important for the ministry, regardless of what awaits us in the European Union, because we have said that this is a transitional law, to give more attention in this law to beekeepers, and especially to environmental beekeepers. And in that segment and the organic food producers. I repeat, Croatian village, Croatian peasants have preserved Croatian space, language, culture, religion, costume and the identity of Croatian people. And I think these difficult moments should support them. Not only with these direct support, not only with rural development measures, but with what they asked for two weeks ago and what they were promised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34693	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34694	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Representative Petir here I must say you said that the support that came from the government was great and that they had actually created an opening and opportunity for new jobs. I must say that the share of support in Croatia is among the highest in Europe, all subsidies. He's a total of 8 billion kunas. If you convert that into a state budget, it turns out that 5 to 6% of the state budget is just going to subsidies. What does that mean? One more thing. That share of support in the last five years has only grown. What does that mean again? That means that instead of creating farmers who can exist independently on the market, you're kind of creating our farmers in debt slavery to the state. That's what's inadmissible and that's what's happening today. Because on the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union, a large part will no longer be entitled to support and subsidies. And that's what someone needs to tell them. And if that share of support is growing today, that means that this cut will be more painful in the future. Because to reduce myself instead of seeing them become themselves competitive, to go into reform procedures, this way through support is encouraged that they depend on the state. And that primarily results in some openings and jobs and increased expansion. But surely within the long term, it will result in the layoffs, layoffs, and dissatisfied people, citizens, peasants, and farmers, as was the example of a protest by warlords and milkmen before the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34695	Replica reply, Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34696	Well, dear fellow, I think you're dealing with the wrong data, because if the Ministry of Agriculture has $4.3 billion in its budget, then I don't see how there can be $8 billion in support and subsidies in agriculture. Part of that 4.3 billion is certainly for support. But I don't look at you this way the way you look at them. I see it as a compensation for someone who guards Croatian space. These supports are normal in Austria for someone who lives in the country because while he lives in that village, that means that he cuts grass, that he doesn't grow chicare there, that he processes the land, that he lives in that house, that smoke from the chimney can be seen. These are the guardians of space and they as guardians of space in other countries have a fee and a much greater fee than Croatia is today. Of course, I assume that you are aware that the measures of rural development are growing and two years back in Croatia are putting a growing emphasis on rural policy and the growth of the share of payments for rural development measures in the total agricultural budget is foreseen. He is now half a billion kuna and is so invested in rural development measures. The trend is growth, what is really the most significant and what is interesting is that by entering the European Union from that title we will be able to withdraw a lot more money. So far, farmers have shown the greatest interest in the investment programme in agricultural economies, which I think is extremely important for the acquisition of agricultural machinery as well as for the investment support programme in multi-annual plantations. So, what is our intention to do is to strengthen the investment support programme in the next period to focus on other structural measures such as support for young farmers, and I think that this is an extraordinary opportunity for self-employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34697	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34698	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know if any of you know what the light is for the color clip or what they would say in Trogir, let's just say my light is a pair of colors and it's a wrinkle light. It's actually gray, they used to only have suits white, black for burial, and these were the light of the shears. I mention it because it seems to me that this law is very successful trying at least but I think it opens the door to one fight against that gray zone in agriculture and livestock as part of it, that it is trying to regulate it and that money that is being created there draws it from that zone into the light of day. I believe that this is a very important item and that since Article 19(1), which defines that in the next 1.10 years, only those who are going to be taxpayers of the whole thing could receive support in a less than six months could be dealt with in a better, more useful way. For the sake of illustration, I will use the examples of Brač, a problem that is somehow closer to me in knowledge and on the subject of a colleague who spoke about how unproductive the support is because they do not create new jobs but create real addicts. I'm supposed to take a fly off now, but I'm not. 120 kuna is a support to me for a sheep or lamb. There are about 20 thousand sheep in Brač, or so many lambs expected, so that's about 2 million and 400, but what goes through the gray zone is 6 million euros, it's somewhere around 45 million. So you see how different it is from the incentive to the real effect of the financial effect that comes to us after we've given these 2 million and 400 or how many kunas encourage what we all do in a single gray zone completely. In order to show you this cattleman who gets the incentive and doesn't report this incentive, doesn't report it as his activity, his product is unregistered for 100 euros to be sold to a caterer, the caterer resells it for 300 euros in his restaurant, taverns or any property that deals with agrotourism all went without paper because the catererer can't show the entry when he illegally bought it, so he can't even show his income from selling that lamb. So, about 6 million in Brač alone made 6 million euros realised on some lambs, while the state remained deprived of at least 1 million per opportunity from VAT. And what does that mean? If this does not mean something to someone for many two years, they bring anex to the Clarissar School in Pussy Grates because about 15 million kunas are needed to make the Pussy School realize its add-on and the Pucissary School in Pucis is one of the three most esteemed cless schools in Europe and the only school charged to tourists to come to see how it is done. So you see how some money that doesn't seem that big but now how many of those brothers are there or how many of those sheep there are, how many of those lambs do you see how much money is completely gone? So cattlemen should also be brought to order and that provision to be 1.10, I think it's very well founded. There's another reason, and that's what incentive often gets those who actually don't do the job. They get a boost because they have pastures, they have a country where it happens and one who really does do cattle farming and needs encouragement to deal with it, whether it's in the Ruins or flats, or on Gažul on Brač, and so on Pag, and I don't know where else, the cattleman doesn't get and the owner of the land gets it. The third reason is that many neat cattlemen point out that there are cattlemen who get incentives and that cattle is loosed somewhere without any control, without any supervision who knows what pastures, if it is, it is not, so what's good is because it's already getting some money from the incentive itself. The fourth reason is in environmental science. The lambs that rip off all those skins, all that fur stays somewhere in the woods uncontrollably. In this way, the Brac could make one slaughterhouse neat... to realise from the VAT itself which would be obtained and all of this expensive hygienic function. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For all of these reasons, I expressed my opinion at the committee's session that Article 16(3) noted that 5% of the incentives given should be controlled on the ground whether they come in the right hands, whether they function in the right way, should be increased to 15% at least mandatory supervision. Because if you monitor 5%, then someone's gonna be in line every 20 years. Well, it's just that control isn't so effective, with 15% of course three times that. But I understand the proposal that there are difficulties in people's teaming up enough to control it on the ground. And I understand, I would say the comfort that will be given through the system... one in a certain way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sees the state of power in the field as much as we control whether there are as many steps as the incentives for it have been received somewhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, this gray zone needs to come out of the light as soon as possible, that it disappears, it needs to be illuminated by law and practice because it seems to me that it is in full conformity with the intensity of those who are doing their work in a very transparent, legally covered and orderly manner and that these intensities about the control where the incentives go away, where support is given that they will very well be accepted by those who understand it as their source of existence. I think that, and I also said that it is precisely for the very reason the incentive goes, to whom this support is granted, that it may be very important to change the term of the owner, some other term because it is not always the owner, the landowner that there are various forms of relations between those who own the land and those who use this land by concession and loan and... And unsettled monasteries, unsettled property books in a court of law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why it seems to me that maybe that term, the owner, I don't know how much he's bound to be or not, that he might be defined in another way, in order to cover a larger width, one of the diapasons of the potential users of it. The government should adopt a national rural development programme that should be consistent with all of this and through which it should be seen and the meaning of the support that a colleague is talking about, how meaningful it is, how not and understand that point of view in principle that people should learn to fish and not just bring fish to eat, but that they can catch themselves. Therefore, this should be done by the end of this year, this rural development programme should be adopted and that the development of this programme should, in practice, be done by the Committee, but the text itself does not say that this committee will be formed, of which it will consist. I think it's... this committee is very important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One little thing, in Article 56(8), says the Minister's appointment, that he'll bring it in, we said it shouldn't be the minister because it prejudges something. And in general, when it's said in the texts that it will define the minister also elsewhere, maybe we should find... It's a term that won't hurt anyone and tell them what it is, but here's just a little awkwardness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I recommend that as soon as possible, in agreement and in accordance with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, this agricultural environmental programme should be adopted as soon as possible so that it can function as a good basis. In any case, praise to the promoter for a very thorough, very thorough law and the need for it to be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34699	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34700	So here I would join certainly this debate of fellow Roshin who pointed out that it was important to have a stronger system of control in... agricultural incentives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because, of course, when there's a certain malversion that I think is the exception, not the rule, then the shadow is thrown out for all those who do their job fairly. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament also passed the Law on the paying agency, the Ministry is working hastily to establish that paying agency and it is a guarantee, not only because we have to do it for the European Union but also because... Because of the example you mentioned of once and for all tracking that money, how it is distributed, to whom it goes, and whether it goes for the right purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I expect that Mr. Kuterovac, State Secretary, will later mention in his address where it came from with the paying agency. But I am also pleased that here, through this law, are very clearly laid down and provisions relating to administrative inspection which are from Article 65 to Article 77 which clearly define the inspection obligations but also apply to criminal provisions if certain infringements occur. However, I do consider that to be the conclusion that if certain problems occur in the payment of incentives or indifference or possibly illegal actions, these are exceptions, it is certainly not the rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34701	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34702	Thank you very much, so I will try briefly to include myself in this topic because it seems to me, and about this law to say something, because it seems to me that the topic of agriculture and incentives and support in agriculture is actually in that right way and with the right weight and problems we are just expecting. In fact, in Croatia, it seems to me that we mainly have a policy of agriculture and we do not have a agricultural policy. And that seems to me to be the key problem. On the other hand, I agree entirely with my colleague Roshin, who says that we should stop sharing fish to farmers. It is high time we counted on the perspective of entering the European Union to teach them how to catch that fish. And it often seems to me, I'll try to explain why I think we have a policy farm. It often seems to me that when we talk about agricultural topics and such laws, so the aid law we actually talk about as if agriculture is located in a vacuum, an air space, as if it's not happening today, as if it's not happening in Croatia. So let's say that we have a chance to hear that with two billion on the scale of the Ministry of Agriculture we would solve all the problems. And what about those 15 to 20 billion that we're already missing and that we're going to miss, say, maybe even more in the fall. Well, actually, it seems to me that we don't really talk about agriculture the right way, we don't have the right strategy and the right plans. So we make certain laws, certain quotas, certain incentives, but then we don't really care about anything anymore. We don't care about climate change, we don't care about the disturbances that are possible on the market, and then it happens to us that in addition to having increased agricultural allocations, we have protests. So now we've had a protest of milkmen, so now people who grow wheat are producing wheat with demands and protests. I mean, I could talk a lot of examples like that right now. I'm not going to talk at all about what's going on in Zadar and the hinterland of Zadar, that plantations are now being harvested... Now if it is true, and I believe it is, what is the meaning of this law is to preserve that rural space of Croatia, then someone should react regardless of the market dictatorships in these conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also, unlike my colleagues who have pointed out that support is shared in a way that actually great producers of so large companies get most of the incentives, I agree. But I'm thinking one more thing. I think that Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, even regional and spatially does not take account of rural development in the same way. They can actually argue with a series of products and with a series of cultures that we don't share incentives for. What I'm interested in, to what extent this law will, I don't think this is a bad model, to which he will actually ensure that some kind of elimination is eliminated so I can say possible situations, the type of protests, etc. One more thing. So I'm going back to those basic elements or the origins of this law, so we're preparing for the EU's common market. Now the question is, since we share fish and do not teach farmers how to fish, as far as we are prepared for the EU. I don't know if this situation at the moment we enter the European Union is actually going to be cut off in some way. We don't even know what's going on on this plan of contacts, conversations, negotiations, negotiations, etc., if that's what it's all about. But no matter what the situation is, it should always be for me. Now I return to the fact that this law, among other things, should make a significant contribution to the preservation of rural development, the preservation of that space. So, we've had opportunities to hear these rural households, let's say that in that village and in those villages of ours that are increasingly desolate, people are coming back. Now, when I look at actually there's a list of cultures, plants, fruit trees, etc. which are financed and which will receive a certain type of support. I don't see any cultures. Here's why I don't understand why, I could take more examples, but I'll take a fig tree, so why isn't there a fig tree in that story? A fig tree that has fed for centuries, for example, a good part of Dalmatia, not only coast but also Zagor, why is it not in the incentives? You can't actually find the data or the statistics on these figs are catastrophic. It's about about 180 thousand trees, about 2 and a half thousand tons, etc., etc. However, the fact is that once 20 years ago it was one significant thing to say so was a production product from that area. Here I'm actually going to argue here to try to help the state not to in one way or another, de facto in the wider sense of the state, so every year we import almost $1 and a half million of dry figs from Tunisia and Greece, but actually we're going to be the ones who are actually going to grow and sell that dried fig tree. You see, he says we must prepare for the European market. Now, you see, I know two, three, let me stay in the fruit area or fruit trees that will always be sought on the European market, normally with certain assumptions. It's this marasque that the trees are now pulling away, it's the fig tree I'm talking about and let's say the horn. I won't talk about any other cultures. So I believe I'm going to submit one amendment or I've already filed it around dry figs. I believe that at least my colleagues from Dalmatia, if not the proposer, will support me. Because first of all, these aren't huge amounts, and the creation you know that dried figs grow on the debris, that actually today figs grow only or mostly older households. I believe that certain stimulations for 20, 30 of those trees would actually be of great interest. And when that story is circled, 20 or 30 olive trees, so many fig trees, that actually people, certain people, or a good part of the people of the Dalmatian village would find a reason to grow those cultures. Here, in the hope that you will accept this amendment of mine, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34703	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34704	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Lucin, I think what you mentioned and the question of the distribution of these support and what to produce. This is exactly the problem of this so far and the Law on Support, but the same thing that we unfortunately do not have here, which is clearly defined objectives of agriculture and rural development. We don't have, that's what the people of Europe tell us, that we need to see what these products are, what we're going with and what we can do in Europe. I believe what you just said, this part of Mediterranean production, so that's what they say from Europe that it's one of the productions that could go on. That is why one and a thorough revision of these support is needed. It also needs one transparency of these support. It also needs targeted and balanced distribution of these support. Through that part, we will then see and evaluate and give the right pathways that are our productions. If we don't do this, then what we're doing is it's only going to be one transitional part because by the time we get to what Europe's been doing, unfortunately since 2013, they've been changing this system of support that we haven't even entered as such, therefore direct payments, the issue of rural development, the issue of stimulating or increasing production. Therefore, in this part of it, I agree fully with you that we should define with this law and what we are finally going to produce, to which we will provide support and what we will export. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34705	Replication response. Mr. Representative Shime Luchin
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34706	Thank you very much. I'm no farmer, and I don't come from that branch and I'm not an expert. But I know well that every thing that is finally created in this House needs political will. Now, is there a political will in this House to make a certain difference between different support, to know that one type of support for strategic matters is for wheat, corn and so on. Another type of support is what we count on and what we will compete with on the European market. I'm actually worried about one other fact. We recently passed the Agricultural Chamber Act here. We have a series of agricultural cooperatives that exist on the ground. And actually instead of using old and new forms to make this policy or to say that this story turns out to be better and in a more concrete way, it actually seems to me that we're avoiding it. And that's it, and I'm going back to that thesis, and that's it, so we're going to have until then until we take this into account what I've been talking about, we're going to have actually agricultural policy and not agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34707	Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34708	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a reminder that the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry was adopted in 2002 and that it was then a significant turn in the agricultural policy of the Republic of Croatia. The established system of support which, of course, was improved and adapted to the needs of the moment was significantly more transparent, and was more financially generous year by year compared to the previous system. Therefore, I personally cannot agree with all those who say that the support system, although it was more financially generous, did not make a significant step in our agriculture. I think Mr Kovacevic spoke very highly of this on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club. He presented a series of data that are still in favour of bringing in a series of means of operational programmes that were just heading towards and structural adjustment of our agriculture and increasing the production volume of Croatian agriculture. It should also be said that thanks to the formation of the registers of agricultural holdings, this unique and comprehensive system of monitoring and control of all agricultural holdings which, on any basis, exercised the right to incentives under market-price policy measures or payments as part of structural policy measures was then established. It should also be said that this system has significantly contributed to credibility and transparency in the exercise of the right to state support in agriculture, thereby reducing the possibility of non-intentional and non-essential spending of state resources to a minimum. I would just look back here when we talk about this new law, meaning state support for agriculture and rural development this is another step forward because of all the administrative institutional assumptions that the Republic of Croatia must make in order to support future entry into the European Union. However, it is known, even though the long-term objectives of the Republic of Croatia are in line and in line with the objectives of the common agricultural policy, however, that there are still significant differences in the implementation instruments and measures of the agricultural policy. These differences are, in any case, the most visible in the very system of support for agriculture. It is precisely doing these differences, and in accordance with the negotiating position set out in Chapter XI. – Agriculture and rural development. The Republic of Croatia has committed itself to making a whole new Law on State support in agriculture with the primary objective of gradually harmonising domestic legislation in the area of market-price policy measures and rural development policy with the common agricultural policy of the European Union. At the same time, the proposed law offers our farmers a transitional period which should allow them to prepare quality for a competitive performance on the common but extremely demanding market in agricultural and food products of the European Union in terms of the price of agricultural products, as well as food quality and safety standards, as well as the changed conditions relating to support for the agricultural sector and the achievement of these support. I would particularly like to praise the fact that the State Secretary presented in his presentation, which was included in the composition of the commission working on the drafting of this law almost all those whose agriculture in any way represents something in this country, of which I will specifically mention, so representatives of agricultural producers. It is also for every praise and the fact that the law itself was involved and recognised by the consultants of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry, it seems to me that Mr. Fischler and Mr. Legrass have certainly contributed with their work that this law and this support system that we will have is in line with this new law that we are making much closer to that system of agricultural support that is in the government and in the European Union. The new Act on State aid to agriculture and rural development regulates state support in the form of direct payments to agricultural economies through market-price policy measures and rural development policy measures, so the first and second pillars, followed by the concept of the common agricultural policy. It should also be pointed out that this law is not only fully but partly in line with the acquis of the European Union in the area of agriculture and that its full application is foreseen for a two-year transitional period until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. However, it should also be pointed out that it is a quality basis for the gradual full adaptation of the national system of support to those in the European Union that is inevitable and which is expecting us in the very near future, i.e. the near future. In teaching everything previously stated by the bill, certain newspapers, so-called "the law", are introduced. horizontal mechanisms without which direct payments cannot be made in the European Union. That's what I was talking about. Therefore, mandatory fulfilment of the conditions of multiple compliance, the establishment of an integrated administrative and control system, etc. is introduced. IAXA. Modulation or reduction of payment of direct payments, strict financial discipline in direct payments when we talk about that total envelope, therefore by means of an insurance at the level of one production year. Finally, the implementation of direct payments is placed in the power of the newly established Payment Agency because we know that without this institutional support it will simply not be possible to pay support when Croatia enters the European Union. Furthermore, the law also changes the current structure of incentives, i.e. the introduction of basic payments for meadows and pastures and basic payments for all other types of land use, benefiting from the same amount of incentives per hectare regardless of the type of production. Such payments are almost entirely consistent with direct payments under the regional SPS model. Therefore, by means of a single payment scheme in the European Union. In addition to the aforementioned payments in warfare, we see that the law provides for additional payments for certain productions. Similarly, there are certain direct payments that will continue after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, but there are certain payments that will depend on the outcome of the negotiations with the European Commission, which means that certain negotiations will be successful, that certain incentives can be maintained in the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, so direct payments, but will be paid from national funds, so from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to rural development policy, it should also be said that the law defines 3 priority areas of action or 3 basic groups of measures in line with the European model. Therefore, measures to improve the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, measures to preserve and improve the environment and landscapes and measures to improve the quality of life in rural areas and diversification of rural economic activities. Of course, these measures, once the national programme is adopted, will depend heavily, and the name of these measures speaks in which direction they are going, will depend significantly on the status of our farmers when we enter the European Union. I also consider it necessary to say that the adoption of the National Rural Development Programme of Capital Investment Support, Income Support, Support for Insurance of Possible Harms and Rural Development Measures will continue to be used in accordance with the applicable rules which will remain in force in part after the adoption of this law. Finally, because I am convinced that this Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development is a significant step in adapting our support system, so support in the Republic of Croatia for this in the European Union. Also, which is a good basis for one quality adjustment of our farmers before entering the European Union so that they can perform specifically on that market, I will personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34709	Thank you. Two replicas, first Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34710	Thank you very much. My colleague, it seems to me that at least in this House, we should make a clear and loud conclusion. In fact, there are no ones whose agriculture is important, important, and dear. For all of us, agriculture is very important and important. After all, all of us and all the citizens of this country are buying these agricultural products. After all, all of us, in fact, taxpayers, pay in a certain way these incentives. And I also agree with you that a step has been made in recent times. What, though, is the result among other steps? That we encouraged people to invest in machinery and tractors, that we encouraged people to open stables, that we encouraged people to plant marasks. Then we came into a situation where these people can't pay taxes because of bad policy, or I'm sorry about the tractor loans, and then they protest, they close the stables because it doesn't make sense to keep cows when they simply can't get the agreed price of milk, and then they protest. And let's just say, when the case is who in Zadar is marasque, then people just rip those trees off because someone in the process until they came in phase to maraska to bear fruit, cheat and cheat. Therefore, I would be careful with the quality of this step.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34711	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34712	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucin, I, when I was saying, all those who are interested, speak in the sense of participation in the drafting of this law, so the commission included all of Croatia's countries which, in some ways, concern agriculture. Of course agriculture concerns every citizen in this republic. Also when I talked about structural support, structural support has been practically introduced since 2002. It is because in the first years they were insignificant, i.e. the level of financing of these structural support was low, but in the years to come it has been significantly raised unlike 13 million kuna in the 1st year of application of the law for certain such support, today it is paid up to 500 million kuna and I am convinced that such payments still have to yield results. I would also like to tell you that the purpose of the aid is not just to raise the level of production. The purpose of the support is to raise the competitiveness of the agricultural producer, but also to support the income of the agricultural producer, i.e. the family holding. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34713	Second replica, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Filipovic, you're talking about a big, big, big step forward with this law in line with the European Union. However, we must say that,... Others in Europe say that this law was made for 2009 and 2010, as have been last year's changes, the changes were made for 2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this is still far from the requirements that, i.e. to agree with the European Union. I don't think in that part we've done enough and that this is just one extension because when you look at it, it's actually the only rural part when it's talking about it and agreeing, that there's a consensus going towards reconciliation. We've kept this whole thing under one or the other conditions. Direct payments, i.e. payments that will be paid before we enter Europe, but are no longer paid in Europe. Therefore, what is important and what we should do to make laws not only pass them, but to implement them, but to pass laws that will be harmonised. Still, I think we should start working on a new harmonisation of the law tomorrow, that is, what it should be in 2011. And what is done and what is certainly quality, to coordinate these procedures with the commission and to see what changes they have in them. Because as we have heard, these changes will certainly be and they are constantly emerging as new since 2012, 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34715	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34716	Thank you very much. Just to read to Mr. Bodakosh that exactly what you were saying, that's what I said in my presentation. It should be pointed out that this law is not entirely but only partially in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, but I also pointed out in the end that it is still a quality basis for a gradual, full adaptation of the national support system to those in the European Union. So we're actually in agreement with what you're replicating to me. And as far as the steps are concerned, I did talk about stepping into the support system in the Republic of Croatia and 2002 and in all the following years because the system was being upgraded year after year, but I spoke primarily for the control mechanisms that this system had, out of the meaning of the work of the inspection, established a new register as a single system of monitoring and control of agricultural holdings. And we are also talking about a step in this law because the establishment of IACS means this same integrated control system, without which support in the European Union simply cannot be used. And since I've been working from experience, I know what the intensity of the European Commission is. The European Commission's intensity is to prevent embezzlement in the spending of budget funds intended for agriculture. It means to prevent fraud. And without these systems and the legal establishment of these systems, we will simply not be able to benefit from this support in the future. And we all know that the Republic of Croatia has no alternative at this time, so neither is Croatian agriculture when it comes to entering the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34717	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34718	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So through these discussions that we had the opportunity to listen to each other, we agree mainly that in the area I was formal, meaning institutionally through laws, through assessments, decisions, that a lot was done for agriculture. That's right. And the Chamber of Agriculture, and the Law of Agricultural Land, and a series of legal provisions, and I don't now count. The second question, however, is how useful it is for farmers, how expendable it is for farmers. Now that's another question. Especially when we're talking about this law, the Support Act, something we should have passed a long time ago. Because, according to this system, Europe's support has been functioning for a longer period of time. And it changes its story in 2013 and we have indications that this system, it won't leave it, but the potential of the funds will be much smaller. Why haven't we done this before? And I fully support this system. You get a hectare, and it produces what's worth it. I fully support it. Because just with this system of support that we've had so far, we've made a lot of accidents for our farmers, literally a lot of accidents. On the one hand, we got an entire polygon of politicized associations in which stakeholders and individuals meet their needs, we got individuals with feeds of 400 hectares. 400 hectares rented from the state are paid at the price of one, and the support is received at the price of the other and, as a rule, the support is always higher than the price paid per hectare. We have cases like that. What did we produce it with? We've produced this kind of support system. With what money? Our money, taxpayers' money. The fact that in 10 years over 25 billion kunas of tax money went into the support system. That's a fact. Do we today have self-sufficiency in food production? We don't. So something in that whole system is wrong. In my view, this is the key problem of how to create a system, how to finance a system that will primarily ensure us through agricultural production self-sufficiency in food production, and give surpluses to that defence market on which we are preparing the market in the European Union, because the fact that our market is too little for the potential that we have in agricultural production. Therefore, it is not at all question whether this is supported or not. That's not at all controversial. It's supposed to be supportive. But it is clear and loud that we signed an agreement on the European Union's common agricultural policy in 2004. As of early 2005 it is now 2009. For four years, we've made very small steps in that space, and now we've come into one zeit note. This law applies to 2009 and 2010. It is that according to some of the government's announcements and programmes and plans, it was also included in 2011. However, it is now not included, which is less important. But it's far more important than what we've been doing for four years, why we haven't changed that system for four years. Because such a system of support definitely also changes the philosophy of agricultural production. It's definitely changing. In this law alone, I said so, and on the Committee on Agriculture, I have a few remarks that I find restrictive. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "the users of direct payments are obliged to meet the conditions of multiple compliance in agricultural production". Watch out for 19 directives involving this multiple compliance. Have our farmers been educated? Will they be able to please? We haven't even left yet, so if we leave tomorrow if we already have trained lecturers. If we leave tomorrow, we can't finish this process for a year. What will happen to those people who have rights and do not meet that condition of multiple conformity? It says users must be in the VAT system, however, the minister told the Agriculture Committee that this would change with the government's amendment. Because the fact and question, and again, is my question, how much do we have or what participation do agricultural producers involved in the VAT system, and what are those not involved in the VAT system? If the correct information is that we have about 27 agricultural producers who do not have their own grinds, that fact speaks for itself and the system that we have so far organised agricultural production. The fact that we are now in agricultural production in the organisation of a system that needs to give conditions to agricultural producers, the fact that we gave up smaller agricultural households, that's the fact. Which is particularly interesting in livestock production. We gave up small, tough, not in charge, and on the other hand we created conditions for so-called. large reinvested who have entered the assembly of construction and equipment, and production without their own crafts capital and often without professional knowledge of the work they have entered, and therefore we have problems today. So it's crucial that I don't repeat myself to all of us, it's clear, it's crucial. We as a state and this is the task of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is the task of us in the Parliament to return to the 2002 Agricultural Land Act on the basis of data and I will now return to the 2002 Agricultural Land Act where there is a legal obligation that once a year the Ministry of Agriculture forwards to the Government a green report, that this green report comes to the Parliament mandatory every year a legal obligation in this House has been passed that law. It's 2009, seven years. In those seven years, no debate was held in this assembly on this green report. And this very green report is an opportunity for all of us together on the one hand to see what our situation in agriculture and on the other hand to make our concrete contribution to concrete data, to concrete values and to concrete measures, and to make our agricultural production start and that the money we invest in agriculture is not small and certain that we should invest, but at the same time certainly, that we should invest it through a specific cos benefit analysis rather than by some party priorities or some other which are, in any case, and therefore we have objections that we have quite non-transparency in these incentives, something that we do not need and something that is very irresponsible to the taxpayers' money that is paid through these support. So, I don't want to prolong this law, and I'm sure we'll all support it. At the same time, however, we must all express our regret for the missed time and everything we didn't get we lost in the agricultural production extremely much, what is the worst agricultural producers because when at least we have in Zagorje and I believe everywhere when a cow leaves the village, people leave the village pastures, meadows, turn into schizores, corrosives and we have it today. And now we're coming up with exactly the kind of important measure that I think is pretty little processed in this law and that's the potential for rural development. How much we have any idea of each of us here in which direction our rural development will move. Do any of us know what the Regional Development Strategy is? Do any of us know what regional policy is?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34719	A colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34720	Here's one sentence, I'll finish now. The agricultural environmental programme, which I was also talking about on the board, is something that needs to be done, something that, in the future, gives us the possibility of funding support for agricultural production but those that we choose to be based on certain criteria and our reality in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34721	Thank you. Replica Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34722	Here's this colleague you're done with, and the question of when and who are being supported. Someone's being supported, someone's not being supported. It is also a hot and large source of possible corruption. In Zadar and Zadar, Mr. Romic, the winner of all possible olives prizes ahead of the election, was promised that all those fees and support would be paid to him on 18 May and 19 May, respectively. The man waited, had faith and trust, had passed the local elections, came in 19th, waited for a decent one time for another eight days. He called and the ministry told him there was no money.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34723	Replica, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34724	This last thing you said to your colleague, Anticevic, that there's no money in the ministry, I just don't get it. Yesterday we heard a statement from Minister Shuker of State on a day and in a lip, hence something in the whole story is wrong. That in these aids is quite intransparency it is known. The very fact that in 2008 the payment of the support ranged from nine kunas, a letter and a 9 kuna figure to, say, 108 million received by Belje. Therefore, and we are all in agreement here, we are indeed all agreed that in time to this day through the system of support of large funds of taxpayers are paid and at the same time we still do not have self-sufficiency in food production, we are still large importers of food and, on the other hand, more and more small agricultural economies are collapsing and more and more countries are unprocessed, grown up in a schiscar with a great uncertain future when according to the Agriculture Act, municipal chiefs begin to dispose of that country. That's what you should be afraid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34725	Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. She's gone. And Mrs. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34726	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, why support this law? As much as I don't think he's going to solve most of the problems of Croatian peasants, I think this law should still be supported because at least a little bit will help agricultural areas, any shift to the better is welcome anyway. But once the east of Croatia was the richest end. It was attended by people from like, Herzegovina, other ends with bread. What do we have today? Cereals that could feed the whole of Croatia and beyond, the whole region is without exaggeration on its knees. The entire Croatian agriculture is on its knees. Anyone who truly loves this country must have tears in their eyes when he sees a Croatian peasant destroying his mature vegetables because there is simply no place to place it at the price of adequately invested means and effort and we, on the other hand, import food at the same time. There's obviously something dangerous wrong. Not to repeat the information that my esteemed colleague, Dragica Zgrebec, has been given to us, nor is agricultural production adequate, so there is a surplus, there is something missing, and there is no guarantee of a producer's income stability. People who live from agriculture or livestock are often sentenced to life on the brink of existence and prayer not to be too much rain or too little, not to be beaten because then they will get some kind of minimal compensation if in all that disaster they are fortunate to have the government declaring an elemental disaster. We simply don't have strategic planning, there's not enough investment in irrigation and draining, even though we know everything we need to do, but it's simply not done. Slavonia and Baranja are obviously our government's last hole in the game. We are, among other things, a tourist country, but we must be aware that we are mostly a rural country and that we do not need to run from it. We need to take advantage of all the opportunities we have and what our advantage is and what many more developed countries would want than us to have, we turn into our own drawback. I know that the attempt to argue on the other hand is that so far it has been invested, that incentives have been given, that pre-accession funds have been used, but obviously all this has not been enough, because if it were a Croatian peasant today, it would not have lived in the uncertainty of its own existence and would not have gone out on the street for its rights. If what has been done so far had not been done, today the Brod-Posavia County would not have had a gross domestic product as the poorest province in northern Romania. If the efforts so far had not been sufficient today, unemployment would not be the largest in Slavonian counties, residents of Vukovar-Srijemska, Požeko-Slavonska, Brod-Posavina County would not feel the most socially excluded. These people feel that they are forgotten and neglected by the Croatian government, and this feeling is not random because it is supported by all possible statistics, from those on unemployment, on the size of wages, on the gross domestic product and not to list any further. In Slavonia and Baranja, it is definitely not just enough investment, but a far greater investment to make up for it, that is to say. Northern Croatia or southern Croatia. Today, it is no longer important for Slavs to live in the richest part of the country as they once did, since the criteria have fallen by force. So here I welcome every law that will at least move things a little bit to the better, even though I can't see that something like this to those who will benefit from this law took a long, long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34727	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think a colleague at the beginning, I'm just going to start from the more I heard, but just the one that started because it kind of touched me, and that's supposed to be people coming to Slavonia and Baranja. People didn't come to Slavonia and Baranja, colleagues of Borzan. They were brought there violently. They're violently populated there. ... In their time, political forces have been populated. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Well, you can't tell me my uncle was taken up to Chepin. No, it made him go up from the hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34729	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34730	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Borzan who said that farmers are waiting for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to declare an elemental disaster. It is not true that the Government of the Republic of Croatia declares an elemental disaster. ... It's true that farmers know... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34731	There's government, there's government, there's government, there's I'm the government. (Laughter) [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34732	It is true that farmers know who declares the elemental disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34733	And Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would also correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Borzan where she found that he was a Slavonic peasant or Slavonia that it was like some last hole in the play. But I would have stuck to that correction of the incorrect claim exclusively on agriculture. So, from 2006 to today, agricultural support has increased by a billion kuna. These billions of kunas through operational programmes were invested in the development of fruit growing, raising livestock farms. So in our area there, Osijek-Baranja County, which draws most of the incentives in the country, so we take most of the incentives in the country, has built over a hundred new farms that are according to European Union standards, tens of thousands of new orchards, vineyards, etc., so large and significant shifts in agriculture, especially in that structural part, so as some kind of structural reform towards high income, etc. It's made. That step is done, here's the data.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34735	Final review. State Secretary Kresimir Kuterovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34736	I thank you first of all for your constructive discussions and for, as far as I understand from the discussion, for supporting this law. I'd just like to briefly try to clarify a few provisions of the law that we've discussed here. First of all, this law should be understood as one law that goes in a transitional period towards some of the rules and principles of support that will be in the European Union. And it is basically a reform law that 60% of its support, meaning within this law, is already in line with the law of the European Union and our farmers mean already in that part they can be sure, I can know that this part of the amount of money will be achieved in the same way in the European Union. The other part of the support should be adjusted and it is necessary to see for itself every farmer in which to adjust their production and how to achieve incentives. When we talk about the amount of funds we need to say that this law has two pillars, meaning the first pillar of support and the second pillar of support, it is rural development. In the first pillar of direct payments, the amount of support at today's level is the amount of support which, of course, if the negotiations with the European Union are completed, will be at the same level. Therefore, our agricultural producers in the European Union will not receive less money for direct payments but will receive it at a level such as that in the current law. You have seen what these amounts are, you have seen that the agricultural budget is growing and surely it needs to be as realistic as and in which direction it will still be able to increase the amount of support. But what we expect, which is that through rural development, means through a second pillar where Croatia will be able to make more money from the European Funds than it is now through the measures found in that second pillar, helping our farmers to become competitive, to educate, to become competitive through those three measures that we have talked about and to remain in their holdings, in rural areas and to deal with agricultural production. It's our farmers' chances, and it's a chance that I think we all need to recognize together. This law does indeed introduce measures that strengthen the control of the use of this incentive primarily through an integrated administrative control system, through our agricultural producers all up to 12,000 kuna in 2009, and those receiving 7200 in 2010 must enter income tax. This is today so within the income tax system we have 14000 producers, 65,000 producers still need to enter that system. And here it is gradually over these two years and these 65,000 producers are going to enter this system. What was the talk about the transparency of the support system. Our support system is transparent. It is the basis of the law, and all payments of support received by any farmer are on the Ministry's website and it is clear, it is visible to any amount of support it has received and on the basis of which it is requested. Of course there may be certain failures in support payments, but in principle support is paid for the current year according to the plan, so to date all the support that should have been paid and paid, so if there is a failure then there may be more I mean technical nature than it is lack of money. There were also a lot of words on how to set priorities and how to make the strategy primarily in a way that the government, state or someone else should say what our agricultural producer should do. And then we go back in some way to one part of planning and planning agriculture, and this law right now has another direction where it gives one frame, gives horizontal support, and each producer has to be recognized in a way that it chooses production in which it can be competitive. I agree with the fact that there may have been often wrong messages, so when someone looks at only the amount of support of a particular culture and then because the support in that culture is high it starts to deal with this production, and there are no other preconditions, because it primarily has no quality land, no position, no climate, but here it is because of the amount of incentives that was in that part that began to deal with this production and thus misdirect itself. I agree that there may have been some wrong messages in certain investments when they opted for the production of maybe milk and saw high support, incentives, and did not properly search out their production. But also our agricultural producers must understand that the decision is on them. He must recognize whether his resource is for the production of figs, whether it is his resource for producing olives, wheat or anything. Otherwise, the state could plan for itself, and we could misplan it. Let's take last year when the wheat was rabbit and a half. Well, we could have said all the wheat last year, and it happened, but not because the state said it, but because the producers said it themselves, because based on that false information where they got it for one year and a half, and the real price of wheat on the stock exchanges here today is going somewhere around 80, 85 lips got a message of false expectation and got into production maybe with some different expectations than they are today. And for this very reason, one such approach to support planning, the planning of agricultural production is not possible. Every farmer must recognize his chance, see what his options are in this law. But primarily by looking at one whole of this agricultural production, he has to decide on our production. When we talk about our agricultural producers waiting for the declaration of a natural disaster, we all know well that every year elementary disasters are declared 2 billion kunas, and we have 25 million kunas to pay off. Well, it's no help to our agricultural producers that they're expecting that amount of 25 million kuna intended for the overall elemental disaster to be something that will help them in that production. And I'm sure they all more expect the harvest or harvest to end as planned, and that the problems in the market, of course, which are especially here this year, we all have to get through together. Of course, we need them in some kind of measure all together and help. Speaking of figs. The fig tree is present in this law in Article 23 of the fig tree, so it is found together with all other fruit species. He's entitled to a basic payment per hectare, a special payment per hectare. They have the right of fig producers to invest if they raise fig plantations, to make marketing preparations, to support some of the perhaps processing plants in the economies. Therefore, through rural development is a great opportunity for our very agricultural production which is specific, which cannot be general and which is not explicitly written in this law. But each of the agricultural producers has to be recognized in that part. And I am sure that, of course, the production of figs in Croatia will continue to develop and will have a future. In the end, I'd like to thank everyone again. And I think as you said yourself, this law is one big step forward. Of course we need to complete all sublegal measures and, of course, try to make the situation in our agriculture and difficult times such as this year for our agricultural producers as possible. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34737	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34738	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 369, the Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Sima Lucin, the club of representatives of HSS and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments to the Government pursuant to Article 169 The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. I ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendments, Kresimir Kuterovac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. First of all, I would like to make an amendment to Mr Sima Lučić, first of all to the amendment to Article 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34739	According to the amendment to Article 24 where the new indent of "smok" is added in Article 24(2), the new indent of "smok" is not accepted. With the reason that the bill already provides for figs as fruit species to make direct payments in the form of personal payment per agricultural area of 2 thousand 250 kuna per hectare and a special payment in plant production of 250 kn per hectare.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34740	Thank you. Mr. Shime Luchin. He's gone. We're voting on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you. Against? He didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment to Article 29 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34741	The amendment to Article 29 shall not be accepted on the grounds that the introduction of new types of direct payments in relation to the draft law does not comply with the proposed adjustment to the direct payment system in the period from the entry into the European Union. The reasons are double. The introduction of a new form of direct payment for the production of fig fruit under kg does not comply with the obligations to the world trade organisation. This form of support is directly related to the quantity of products, has a distorting effect on the markets and belongs to the red basket. According to WTO rules, funds that the state can pay for the red basket are strictly restricted at the annual level. The production-related support mainly of the product-related support does not comply with the common agricultural policy of the European Union and the single payment scheme by economy. In addition, entities involved in the processing of figs may provide support as part of rural development measures for investment in processing capacity and marketing of products.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34742	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34743	I don't really understand the promoter. The refusal of this amendment in the first place to say that it already exists in the law, and then figs are put together with plums and apples... No, no, nuts are different. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I'm surprised that the promoter doesn't know, at least I haven't seen a dry fig plantation anywhere. Do you know, tell me, do you know a plantation of dry figs somewhere? If you pass through the Dalmatian breach, you'll see three figs there, five figs there. So I don't understand this explanation. This isn't about financing what you answer to me, it's about actually helping the Dalmatian hard-working and peasant to produce that fig tree, so the processing of the dried fruit. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34744	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34745	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34746	This is what it says, in addition to the text of olive oil, extra virginity is added to the text of olive fruit, kilograms of five etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34747	The amendment is not accepted on the same basis, so we simply cannot introduce any more production-related support, in particular new production-related support, such as this is a classic case of connection of support to kilograms of products and due to conflicts with the World Trade Organisation and due to rules related to the common agricultural policy of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34748	Thank you. Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34749	I'd like to thank you, Mr. President, for your support. I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34750	This amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 4 also refers to the addition of fig fruit.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34751	It is also not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34752	Mr. Shime Luchin. The amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. We have two more amendments that have been filed by the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. First, the amendment to Article 79.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34753	The amendment is accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34754	This amendment has been accepted. It becomes an integral part of the bill. The second amendment to Article 81 shall also apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34755	It's also accepted. This is the nomotechnical arrangement of Article 81.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34756	Thank you very much. And this becomes an integral part of the bill. I am making a final proposal for the Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The final law on state support was adopted by the majority of votes, 100 votes for and 2 abstentions, along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34757	We are going to the next item - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 365. The Proposer is the Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34758	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, the reason for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Insurance Act is the full harmonisation of Croatian legislation in the area of insurance with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. Directives of the European Union and Directive 68 of 2005 governing the area of resecuritisation, Directive 83 of 2002 governing life insurance and Directive 78 of '98. the year which regulates additional supervision of insurance companies, i.e. resecuritisation. In addition to harmonising with the acquis, an expression with the Capital Market Act is harmonised and are corrected and nomotechnically elaborated on certain provisions of the applicable law for the sake of clarity of expression, easier application of norms and legal certainty. The proposed Act amending and supplementing the Law provides for more precise assurance than in the applicable law, and in accordance with those Directives is governed by the resecuritisation company, by the intermediation company, by the insurance and resecuritisation company, by the insurance and reinsurance agent, by the supervision of the group, by the supervisory authorities of the Member States, as well as by the Croatian financial institutions’ supervisory authorities in carrying out the supervision of the group, the exchange of information and data between the supervisory authorities of that Member State, the branches, the Member States of taking over the risk-covering obligation of that Member State to provide services. These amendments and additions also harmonize the amount of the minimum underlying capital of the insurance company, i.e. reinsurance companies, i.e. guaranteed capital, in accordance with the decision of the European Commission, which will be worth of course from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union from 15 million to 17.5 for insurance companies carrying out certain non-life insurance activities, i.e. from 22.5 to 26.25 million, 26 million kuna for insurance companies carrying out insurance and all non-life insurance activities and for companies carrying out life insurance activities as well as for reinsurance companies. With these amendments and additions to the applicable law, I repeat once again, legislation is harmonised with the acquis, which also meets one of the criteria for closing negotiations in Chapter 9 - Financial Services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34759	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? European integration? Finance and the state budget? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34760	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. The reason for the adoption of this law is the harmonisation of Croatian legislation in the area of insurance with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. with the directives of the European Union, which meets one of the criteria for closing negotiations in Chapter 9 - Financial Services. The proposed amendments and additions to the Insurance Act shall be harmonised by provisions governing insurance companies, reinsurance companies, insurance intervention companies, i.e. reassurance companies, insurance representation companies, insurance representatives, insurance and reinsurance intermediaries, group supervision, and the competence of the supervisory authorities of the Member States as well as the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency in the exercise of supervision of the group and the exchange of information and data between supervisory authorities. First of all, this law requires the obligation to align the underlying capital of insurance companies from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union with changes in the consumer price index published by EUROSTAT if the increase in this index is greater than 5%. On the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the underlying capital of the insurance company shall not be less than 17,5 million kuna for insurance companies carrying out operations only from a particular type of non-life insurance, 26,250,000 kuna if the company carries out insurance operations of all types of non-life insurance and 26,250,000 kuna if the company performs life insurance activities. On the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the share capital of the resecuritisation company shall not be less than €26 million. It is also prescribed that the minimum share capital of the resecuritisation company be committed until the date of accession into the European Union. This amount must not be less than 22.5 million kuna and must not come from loans or loans or be burdened in any other way. This law also provides for more detailed supervision of the financial operations of the insurance company, i.e. the subsidiaries of the insurance company, the powers of the Member State in the conduct of the financial operations, as well as the scope of the supervision of financial operations. Thus, supervision of the financial operations of the insurance company, including operations carried out either at a branch or on the basis of the freedom to provide services in the exclusive jurisdiction of the home Member State. The control measures of the insurance company under this law are a solution to the removal of illegality and irregularity, the determination of additional measures, the withdrawal of the authorisation to carry out insurance operations, the appointment of a special administration, the submission of an indictment proposal, or the issuing of an infringement order and the submission of a proposal to initiate bankruptcy proceedings. If the supervisory authority, i.e. HANFA, withdraws from the reinsurance company a licence to carry out insurance operations, it must inform the competent supervisory authority of the Member States, the provision of services, or the Member State of commitment. The supervision of financial operations shall include the verification of the overall business of the insurance company, its insolvency, the formation of technical reserves, the formation of mathematical reserves, the property for technical reserves and mathematical reserves according to the rules and practices of the home Member State. In the event that the financial situation of the insurance company is compromised, the supervisory authority may prohibit the free availability of the assets. Furthermore, this law lays down the jurisdiction of supervision of a group of insurance undertakings whose entities are located in the Republic of Croatia, a Member State or a foreign country established in Croatia, while at the same time separating the role of the supervisory authority and the competent supervisory authority of a Member State. It is also prescribed that the exercise of additional supervision by the competent supervisory authority does not mean that there is an obligation to exercise supervision over the country's insurance company. Finally, fines amounting to 5 to 25 thousand kuna for violations committed by insurance and reinsurance intermediaries are also provided for. Following the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34761	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34762	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first, I must say that this amendment and the addition of the law is an eclectic example of how laws are passed in this House. Other amendments to the same law with the law which is... since 2005 in 4 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means three legislative proposals in 4 years and always with the same explanation that it is in line with the European Union directives. So three times here in this House came the Insurance Act and three times we have the same explanation that it is in line with the directives of the European Union. However, the Directives in the European Union are from two '98. and 2002. So they are older than both the Insurance Act and the two amendments and the insurance supplement that came in the meantime. And what is important to the insurance company in the Croatian financial sector is only this information that over 10,000 people work in them, over 10,000 people are employed, there are 29, but what is particularly important is that over 8 million policies are concluded and with a total premium of nearly 10 billion kuna. 10 billion kuna is a big money for the Croatian financial system and therefore the regulation of this issue is also very important and very important. I will remind you that in 2005 this framework was first adopted through the Transport Insurance and Mandatory Insurance Act, and by emergency procedure, without serious expert debate, although the representatives of the profession strongly opposed it, and everything was justified as I had said before through the obligation to adapt the law legally to the European Union, i.e. EU legislation. However, after three years of 2008, amendments and additions to the law, which is amended in 158 out of 306 articles, come. So it changes into over 50% of the articles only after three years, the same as if we were to comply with the legislation of the European Union. Now, I ask you, that's when the Croatian Chamber of Commerce sent a proposal to pass a whole new law, because if we change the law in over 50% of articles then it doesn't make any sense to call the amendments and the additions of the law, but to go into the formation of a new Insurance Act which would then and in the meantime be much more acceptable. HANFA as a regulator who is a young regulator and is still learning business, but everything that happens is related to non-depositary financial institutions saying that both HANFA are still a thick helmet for regulators such as HNB, and this trend is definitely continuing, even through these proposals back in the last few years. At that time, HANFA stressed that it had received precisely from professional associations, from relevant professional representatives during the three years since the first law of a variety of objections and that it had incorporated existing amendments and additions to the law. However, some insurance companies say they did not participate in amendments and amendments to the law and had only 24 hours to send comments. So obviously someone could have suggested and participated, and for someone else it was devoid. What happened later is that despite these proposals that arrived within 24 hours, nothing has changed, and this has been explained because we are in fifth gear and we need to bring our legislation into line with the European Union as soon as possible. Here you see today things are still different, so here we already have third amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. And regardless of what is necessary in certain parts of things to be done within the meaning of this law, especially from the point of view of European legislation, we cannot participate in such a circus and three times in four years adopt the same law. It just doesn't make sense, and you don't have our support. One important piece of information that talks enough about the insurance system I'll tell you through the next sentence. Germany adopted the new Insurance Act in 2007 which came into force in 1.1.2008 and replaced the law since 1908, so for a full 100 years the Insurance Act was valid in Germany, and I say in 4 years we change that law three times. In addition to how non-compliance, i.e. compliance is used for different daily variations, it should be noted, for example. the obligation which is prescribed in our law and the investment in government securities does not foresee it, the European Union does not prefer any type of investment in state securities. So it's a story that's still in force from the 2002 directive, and it's actually an example of how through the state insurance industry, it's intervened so it can be more cheaply credited. However, what needs to be noted and what is particularly important is that Croatia's entry into the European Union drys out the source of funding. It's drying up. It simply won't be because liberalisation, especially investment in debt securities, will be such that you no longer have to have minimum investment in government securities. And we are, as in this previous Agricultural Act, learning addiction, learning more and more about the dependence on state aid, increasing dependence on laws that only the state can influence to make it cheaper, instead of going towards slowly drying it, i.e. going towards increasing competitiveness, i.e. increasing dependence on state aid and on cheap lending, and it is about institutional investors. So liberalisation is applied, i.e. the provision of individual harmonisations when it suits us, and when it does not suit us again on the other hand, then we have the point that this will be regulated on the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union and that is what is not good. Likewise, when we talk about insurance, it should be said that on 1 January 2006, there was a commitment, so the legal obligation of this law was introduced only to liberalise the system especially in the zone and part of the car insurance, meaning car responsibility insurance. But that provision has not been applied to this day. What does that mean? That means the regulator's stopping. The regulator in that part does not enforce the law. Why? Because full liberalisation means full market competition, meaning lower prices, means that individual market shares, especially the largest insurance companies, and one of the largest ones owned by the state would be reduced. And that story and that principle and behavior are protected by the regulators. However, as I warned when I was talking about securities and investing in securities, that principle will not be possible for long. And again, we meet with an increasingly dependent relationship on a country that is long-term unsustainable and will become absolutely unsustainable on the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union. And what is yet to be added is that precisely because the entire insurance system is particularly sensitive and large system that affects the Croatian financial picture and because these are already third amendments or the third law that comes within 4 years, the SDP club cannot support such a ruin 'cause we hold that this is simply not how laws are passed in this House of Commons. To be adopted 3 times in 4 years, to be amended and complemented, to always be brought with the same explanation, means to explain Croatia's accession to the European Union and to always be adopted by an urgent procedure. It's just not a way, and that's why we can't support that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34763	Thank you. And now it's the turn of the HNS Club's distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34764	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. In this entire law, which has 147 articles, there is no record of the introduction of new insurance, which is the insurance of parliamentarians from repeating the adoption of bad laws. This type of insurance should be introduced because, as my colleague Bernardic said, in 4 years, we come with amendments to the law three times, and the additions to the same reasoning that we are in line with the legal gains of the European Union. It's simply one proof of the irresponsible conduct of the state administration. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary of State, but I think this certificate we always have with P.Z.E. which you signed last year, too. So, at the signing of 2 June 2009, your associates made a statement to you, together with a colleague from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, on their signature and stamp, guaranteeing that this text is finally in line with European Union regulations. It can, of course, be harmonised every year, but the precondition for this is the new regulations of the European Union. If we look at what we are calling for, we will see here that the last act of the European Union to be adopted, which should therefore be respected in our acts, was adopted in 2005. So for four years now, the legal regulation of the European Union has been very well known, stable, defined, and one of the officials in the Ministry of Finance cannot clearly read these regulations. So again a year after the last intervention, we need to intervene with 147 articles in a law that has 305 articles. This means that practically every other article is changed. Let's say it was 1, 2, 3 or 5 because someone mistranslated, misunderstood, so the European Commission brought him back to Zagreb and said read what it says. But 147 articles of which at least 145 refer to concrete changes, where at least half of them are not about nomotechnical changes but about further clarification, redefinition or new solutions. If it is true that the hours of work of the Croatian Parliament cost 35 thousand, is it possible for Mr. Secretary of State to ask for the heroic health of state officials who worked to prepare this law and to warn them that they had done damage to this country in such a way that they had to have additional hours this year to organise this document and that they had us lose at least an hour or two. So this is 70 thousand kuna. Will any of these civil servants feel at their salary of one, five, seven, or ten percent, so that these things don't happen again. We're being ridiculous, we're being insecure. Because if any of the two variants are correct, and the first one is that we didn't read what was written in the acquis correctly, that we didn't understand when we talked to people from the European Commission. And the other is that we read it all well, we understood it well, but we wanted to twist it, then it's both catastrophic. By our credibility by our ability and efficiency of the work of our state administration. Of course, the Insurance Act must take over all the forms and forms and content solutions that apply to the legal framework of the European Union. Otherwise, we cannot talk about effective insurance beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. So we can't talk about protecting the rights of insurance companies of our insurance companies. Reciprocity, i.e. the rights of European citizens in the Republic of Croatia. And it's clear as day. And the consensus created in this Parliament to support all the laws that harmonize our legislation with the acquis is not at all controversial. But there's something else going on here. And this is about how many times we're going to have to get these laws back on the table? And who guarantees us that by next year with the signature of the same people we will not get the text with such a certificate again, that it is now finally a matter of compliance with the acquis of the European Union. So that's what this is about. So can we start acting effectively and responsibly? Because as three amendments were made and one single legal act was added, three legal acts could be amended and added. And there is an answer to the question why the Republic of Croatia did not respond adequately to the needs of compliance with the acquis. Well, of course, when we do the same thing three, four or five times that we don't have time to do other laws. And it's not always someone else's fault. This is clear evidence that the guilt is on us and that is enough, because if in 2008, we did not know that at least 50 articles of the Insurance Act need to be substantially changed, at least 140, or at least 90 more articles are not technically harmonised. What does nomotechnical harmonisation mean? The literal translation of adequate legal terms in force in the European Union, I guess that's what we've mastered. I guess before the harmonisation process, someone has defined the legal terms and definitions that are covered by our legal regulations. Well, it's not every time we go back to the beginning for every law and every time we check the dates in Brussels. It is certain that there are difficulties and that the government is unable to find sufficient numbers of experts and that it cannot rely on sufficient numbers of professional people in ministries to do these things with far fewer mistakes, but the question is how hard we are trying and we know very well how many new people have been employed in the state administration in the last six years. Let's compare the numbers. Well, they're not just employees of people who do other jobs, but above all, we're told that we have to team up services in the ministries that work in harmony. If that's the case, then the question is, who did we take to work? Has anyone ever responded to one single percent of their salary for this sort of thing? We're wasting time, these people stay working longer probably and the effects are weak. The financial ministry's credibility is right here. The finance ministry has taken over a huge task, a huge burden because one of the most complicated parts of the legislation is on its back when it comes to harmonisation and it is one of the most sensitive things. But for God's sake, the Ministry of Finance has the highest number of professional people, the highest number of administrations, directors of the administration, all of those former assistant ministers. That's why people are putting us in such a position that we have to spend time on something that we should have just consumed in this Parliament. Of course, the metric remains undeniable but if what we said last year wasn't enough warning I don't know what it is, since we have a government in the resignation and the Government can no longer send a single act to the Croatian Parliament right now, now you have time to look at this stuff again and what's in the lobby of the Croatian Parliament, which is waiting to be sent to the government's meeting from the ministries now sit down once more, take a good look so that it doesn't happen that the laws have to be written twice. You're not in a race right now. You have at least ten, fifteen days to review all the papers once more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34765	Thank you. And we have an individual discussion. Dear Representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34766	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Insurance Act is important for each individual because it regulates the area of protection of his life and property against the consequences of a harmful event. It is therefore important to approach with special attention in the making of laws and all amendments thereto. We heard from the opening statement that the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Insurance Act is necessary in order to comply with the Capital Market Act and comply with the European Union Directive. In addition to those harmonisations, it is important that the law receives these amendments and additions to the quality, clarity and accuracy of certain provisions governing insurance companies, insurance companies or insurance and reinsurance insurance representation companies, insurance and reinsurance agents, or insurance and reinsurance intermediaries. Afterwards, supervision of the group and the competence of the supervisory authorities of the Member States as well as of the Croatian financial institutions' supervision agencies in the exercise of the supervision of the group. Therefore, the issue of supervision is more detailed and the amendments to Article 79 are more precisely defined by the supervision of financial operations involving the verification of the entire business of the insurance, insolvency and formation of technical reserves, the formation of mathematical reserves, assets for technical reserves and mathematical reserves. The control measures of the insurance company shall also be more precisely determined by the amendment of Article 159 and shall be defined as a solution to the removal of the illegality and irregularity, the withdrawal of the licence, the appointment of a special administration, the issuing of an infringement order, the submission of a proposal to initiate the bankruptcy procedure. The amendments and additions to Article 19 aligns the amount of the minimum basic capital of the insurance and reinsurance company and from the moment of membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union with the minimum fixed capital from 15 million kuna to 17,5 million kuna for insurance companies carrying out certain types of non-life insurance and from 22,5 million kuna to 26,250,000 kuna and 250 000 kuna for insurance companies carrying out insurance and all non-life insurance activities and for companies carrying out life insurance activities as well as for reinsurance companies. In view of all of the above and in particular of the fact that these amendments and additions contribute to the clarity of the quality of the Insurance Act and in time introduce the insurance market into the environment and the conditions that will need to be met on the day of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, I fully support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34767	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34768	10, The Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 365, the proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act was adopted with most votes, 81 votes for, nothing abstentions and 27 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34769	We're moving on to the next point. - Final bill of excise duty, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 366 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34770	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, the excise duty law regulates the new system of taxation for alcohol and alcoholic beverages including beer, tobacco products, energy products including natural gas, coke and coal and electricity which are produced or imported and released into consumption in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal for a law is in line with nine Directives and five European Union regulations and the other legal property of the European Union in the field of excise duty. In the Republic of Croatia, we are currently taxing on excise duties, as we call them by special taxes, almost all subject matter of taxation which are part of the harmonised excise duty system of the European Union, but we do not have excise warehouses as well as a suspension system of excise duties, and it is not prescribed that the obligation to charge excise duty arises from the release of excise duties. In the European Commission's post-screening report for Chapter 16. Taxes have been found that the Republic of Croatia must achieve improvement and more significant results with regard to the harmonisation of its excise legislation with the acquis of the European Union, especially with regard to the above-mentioned institutes. What are the most significant changes compared to the current regulations? The system of suspension of excise duty is a system relating to the receipt, production, storage, execution of other excise duties and dispatch of excise products in which the duty to pay the excise duty is delayed. The proposed law introduces new excise rights institutes operating in the suspension system of excise duty, such as authorised holders of a excise warehouse, a excise warehouse, a free user of excise products, a registered recipient and a occasionally registered recipient. What is important is the introduction of the basic principle applicable in the European Union with regard to excise products, i.e. that the excise duty arises at the time of the release of excise products into consumption or when the establishment of losses or losses are subject to excise duty. The release into consumption is considered to be three situations possible, so any deviation from the excise duty suspension system, any production that is not in the excise duty suspension system and any imports if the goods are not placed in the excise duty suspension system after import customs duty. The following of course changes the moment of the tax liability of the present, the time of delivery from the production or wholesale warehouse for the moment of release into the consumption of excise products. The production, processing and storage of excise duty rescheduling systems shall only take place in excise warehouses. It is necessary to obtain the authorisation of the customs office in charge and to lay down a guarantee of any excise duty incurred. The proposed legislation also included provisions on the movement of excise goods in the suspension system, which may take place between excise warehouses, between excise warehouses and the drive of the free user and when excise products are shipped from the excise warehouse to export. For the movement of excise goods in the suspension system it is mandatory to lay down an instrument for the insurance of excise duty, and the movement is possible only with the accompanying excise document. We can say structurally in the second part of this bill, so individually described or defined subject matter of taxation. Thus, under the heading, or in the part of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, certain and new items of taxation are prescribed, which are in addition to beer, wine and ethyl alcohol, other beverages obtained by boiling, other than beer and wine and intermediate products, and all alcoholic beverages are determined according to the headings of the Combined Nomenclature of Customs Tariff. The excise duty per beer is determined by the percentage of the actual alcohol content contained in one hectolitre of the finished product. The soft beer is no longer taxed because beer is considered only beer with a volume of real alcohol exceeding 0.5% of the volume. Excises on wine, other drinks obtained by boiling and inter-products are determined by the number of hectolitres of finished product compared to the current taxation per litre of absolute alcohol. Inter-products include a new category, a tax category into which certain drinks cannot be classified either in beer or in wine, or in other drinks obtained by boiling or in ethyl alcohol. So far, alcoholic beverages have been considered to contain more than 2% of the volume of alcohol. However, according to the EU acquis, the subject of excise duty on alcoholic beverages is determined starting at 1.2%. The bill allowed the exemption from payment of excise duty on wine, the remaining drinks obtained by boiling and beer produced by a natural person for their own raw materials needs, provided that these products are not sold, and with the paper that there is no quantitative limit that has existed so far. The Institute of Small Wine Producers is also being introduced. In the area of production of ethyl alcohol for its own purposes, newspapers are introduced, which is in line with the acquis. In fact, small producers of strong alcoholic beverages that produce for their own use become excise bonds and excise duties will pay for so-called. Flat rate rates, depending on the boiler volume, which will result in registration of all small producers of strong alcoholic beverages, which has not been the case so far. In the section entitled "Duhan products" are prescribed subject matter of taxation and definitions of those which are consistent with the acquis, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarillos and other tobacco products. For now, there are three groups of A, B and C cigarettes in the Republic of Croatia and for each group a different amount of specific tax has been prescribed, i.e. a proportional specific tax. We discussed these amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation of Tobacco Products, so there is no need to repeat, however, it should only be said that since 1 June 2009. The Republic of Croatia introduced the same amounts of specific and proportionate excise duties for all types of cigarettes, while in fact this law and formally abolishing cigarette classification groups. The part entitled "Energy and Electricity" covers taxation of energy excise duty if it is used for propulsion or for heating and electricity. The most significant change is the introduction of excise duties on natural gas, electricity, coke and coal, which will not be applied until the day of entry into the European Union. The level of excise duty prescribed for lead gasoline, unleaded gasoline, gas oil and incinerated oil gas used as fuel for propulsion includes the amount of compensation for the purpose of financing the construction and maintenance of public roads, so there is no change. The exemption for energy used as air and navigation fuel in international transport has also been introduced, except when used for private purposes. So far, gas and gas consumption has been paid regardless of the purpose of zero kuna. Finally, the Proposed Taxation Act was made up of a reputation for the best practice of the Member States, and basic institutes are introduced under the rule of law in the field of excise legislation. The proposed law will apply all provisions, other than those whose application is, of course, conditional upon the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. And finally let me say, one amendment that I have received, or which we have received from the Legislative Committee, is acceptable and we accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34771	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34772	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of the new Taxation Act is foreseen, as we have heard, by the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession to the European Union and by the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2009. The excise duty law would enter into force on 1 January 2010, except for that part of the provisions which would enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In its post-screening report on Chapter 16 on taxation, the European Commission instructed the Republic of Croatia to achieve more significant results on the harmonisation of its existing excise legislation with the acquis of the European Union. However, in Croatia, the current excise rules now cover almost all products provided for in Directive 92/12 as basic or so on. the horizontal tax legislation of the European Union which lays down the general principles of the excise system. However, what we still do not have, and it is also foreseen by the said directive, are some special institutes such as excise warehouses. Furthermore, we do not have a system of suspension of payment of excise duties, and we also do not have it prescribed that the obligation to calculate and pay excise duty arises by releasing a excise product into consumption. That's why these institutes were supposed to be installed into a new tax code. The new law was created in fact so that in one place, therefore, all the current individual excise laws for alcohol and alcoholic beverages and tobacco products were collected in one regulation. How, when Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union, it will also have to introduce excise duties on energy, therefore natural gas, coal and coke, but also electricity in this legislative proposal is already included in the excise taxation of energy and electricity, but at this point at a zero rate. That means there's no excise charge on energy and electricity for now. They will be introduced during the transitional period, i.e. the moment Croatia is in full membership of the European Union. Of course, the amount of excise duties will depend on the same in the European Union, and in this context I only note that since the beginning of next year, the European Union has significantly increased electricity consumption. So, one euro per megawatt. Let me get this straight. This legislative proposal covers only products which are taxed also in the European Union, i.e. alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, energy and electricity. While outside the scope of this law all other products on which Croatia now collects excise duties unlike the European Union which does not, and this is about coffee, luxury products, non-alcoholic drinks, personal cars, vessels and aircraft. In the following few details, which are subject to an amendment to this law. As regards alcohol and alcoholic beverages, it is generally necessary to say that it is not proposed to change the level of excise duties but to change the tax base. For example, for beer, the tax base would represent the percentage of the actual alcohol content of a hectolitre of the finished product. Even so, beer has been taxed against a hectolitre of finished products, but regardless of the percentage of the share of alcohol. The excise duty per beer would be 40 kn for one percent of the volume of alcohol in a hectolitre of the finished product. For non-alcoholic beer consumption, it must be an interesting suggestion not to tax it, because soft beer is not considered beer. Beer only becomes beer when it has more than 0.5% of the actual alcoholic volume. The basis of the excise duty on wine and other drinks obtained by boiling would be a hectolitre of finished product, not a litre of absolute alcohol, as has been the case so far. The excise on wine remains zero kuna as it has been. When it comes to alcohol and alcoholic beverages, the newspaper represents their own definition. So far, alcoholic beverages have been considered, of course and adequately taxed by excise duties, which contained more than 2% of the volume of alcohol, and this new legislative proposal, consistent with the legal property of the European Union, lowers the limit to 1.2% of the volume of alcohol. It is interesting, however, that this provision determines that future excise duties will also be paid for drinks containing at least 1.2% of alcohol per volume instead of current 2%. In fact, this provision does not tang anyone on the Croatian market. She's literally we can say a shot in the blank. For example, it does not apply to large producers of strong alcoholic beverages from “Badela 1862” for example, saying that they do not produce at all a product that would be counted in that group, and it does not concern the beer producer, because their products are either below 0.5% alcohol or above 3% alcohol. The answer to the question that Croatian products could even be applied to the said provision does not even know about the economic interest association of the liquor manufacturer. The proposal for a law provides for the possibility of exempting from paying excise duty on wine and beer produced by a natural person by no longer having any quantitative restrictions. The conditions for the release are that wine and beer are produced exclusively for their own purposes, therefore not for the market and are produced on their own land and from their own raw materials. Therefore, everything produced at home and spent by household members, i.e. their guests, was freed from excise duties, thus keeping both the dignity of Zagorac and Međimuracs preserved. An interesting paper in the law is also the Institute of Small Wine Producers, which is those that produce for the market, but not more than 1000 ha per year. They shall be provided for special benefits related to the movement of their products. However, this proposal does not refer to the benefits specifically. It is said only that they will be specified in detail by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. In addition to these, we could say positive changes in compliance with the laws of the European Union also adopt some unpopular provisions. One of these is, for example, the abolition of the release related to the production of ethyl alcohol, specifically rakia. So far, this release has had natural persons who have produced up to 20 liters of brandy for the purposes of their household and their raw materials, and here Europe says that these producers must become excise bonds by paying the excise duty according to the cauldron of the roasting boiler. At the same time, the fee for the boiler of up to 100 liters of volume is 100 kuna, and for one over 100 litres of kuna or excise duty, there is not only one where the boiler is sealed. The next chapter in the legislative proposal concerns tobacco products and, when it comes to them, the most important news is that from the beginning of 2010. Croatia should have a unique excise duty on cigarettes, as cigarettes should be classified as only one group, and not in three, as so far, with a excise base representing a quantity of 1000 pieces of cigarettes and a retail excise price of 180 kuna for 1000 pieces. So this specific excise duty would be 180 kuna per 1000 pieces in proportion. Therefore, this specific excise duty would be 30% proportional to the retail price. Finally, the third area of taxation by excise duties is an area of energy and electricity, with the idea of energy in terms of excise taxation being the same as so far involving oil derivatives, but the law also introduces some new non-taxable energy such as biofuels, solid fuels such as coal and coke, natural gas and other products used for motor vehicles or heating. The great news, of course embarrassing for Croatian citizens, is an announcement of the taxation of electricity, which is delayed until the moment Croatia enters the European Union, so we have some time to adapt to this newspaper. The tax base for petroleum products has been changed from the last kilogram, i.e. a litre in a thousand kilograms or a thousand liters, with the importance of stressing that this legislative proposal no longer knows so-called. Blue diesel, or that gas oil that was marked with blue paint and had zero excise duty. Gas oil used as fuel in fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture will no longer be marked with blue paint, and excise duty will be paid at a full rate for fuel gas oil, with the possibility of returning excise duty to sellers who sell gas oil without excise duty to privileged customers in fisheries, aquaculture and agriculture. Therefore, there is no excise duty on gas oil, which is purchased by fishermen and farmers in the register of agricultural holdings, with the presentation of the fuel card. The exemption from the obligation to pay excise duty on energy is foreseen in the same way as so far for air transport fuel and for navigation in international transport, but the excise duty on jet fuel for private aircraft is introduced on the other hand. And here's just a few more sentences about the new institutes that are set out in the law. Of course, the most recent news is the possibility of delaying the payment of excise duty until the time of delivery of the excise product for final consumption, regardless of whether it is the movement of excise products within the Republic of Croatia or between the members of the European Union. The conditions for this delay are the possession of a excise warehouse and obtaining the status of the authorised holder of the excise warehouse, and the mandatory laying down of the payment insurance instrument for the excise duty. The novelty is of course also the establishment of a register of excise taxpayers, as well as a special register of authorised holders of excise warehouses, which should ensure better supervision of excise taxpayers. And let me get this straight. One of the effects of the application of this law will be a significant increase in the number of excise duties, primarily when it comes to alcohol producers, which is good in terms of the introduction of the obligor into the system, i.e. in terms of reducing the number of actors in the gray area of the economy. What is certain is that small producers will receive significantly more administrations. Not even large producers of strong alcoholic beverages will be satisfied, although the proposed excise law has partially respected their multiannual requirements to reduce excise duty to alcohol, i.e. to adapt them to excise duties in neighbouring countries, therefore in the environment. According to this proposal, excise duties on heavy alcoholic beverages have been reduced from the current 60 to 53 kuna per litre, but manufacturers have requested a reduction to 45 kuna, as much as it currently stands in the European Union. Their additional arguments are great indifference, the payment deadlines have moved above 120, and even above 150 days and a major spending drop of about 10%. The reduction in alcohol consumption also confirms data on the revenues from excise duties on alcohol in the state budget. For example, I will quote in the first quarter of this year only a little more than 32 million kuna was charged, almost half as much as in the same period last year when 60 million kunas were charged from these excise duties. For the sake of comparisons, the revenues from alcohol excise duties have been reduced even more drastically than the revenues from excise duties on cars, whose decrease in the first quarter of 2009 is 41% higher. This law also dissatisfactions the tobacco industry with the proposed model of excise taxation of cigarettes. According to this model, the retail price of cigarettes compared to the purchasing power of citizens will be among the highest in Europe. In addition, Croatia becomes the only country that achieves harmonisation conditions significantly before entering the European Union. Unlike us, all other newly admitted members had a transitional period of 3 to 7 years following their entry into the European Union. So in this law as well as in a number of others, we imposed ourselves on stricter conditions than is required of us. So we enjoy being more papal than the Pope. So despite these remarks, we at the SDP Club will support this law for the reasons we think, that is, we believe in the positive shifts of the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34773	Thank you. It is now the turn of the HDZ club, the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. The state can tax in different ways. He can tax his income, he can tax his profits, he can tax the rich, he can tax the poor, he can sell the property, he can sell the goods, he can use the goods extensively, he can tax the goods luxuriously. We know both direct ones, we also know indirect taxes, we know both progressive and aggressive, and excise duties include indirect taxes. The HDZ Club welcomes the adoption of the Taxation Act, as this law is indeed regulated systematically and covers the excise tax system of alcohol, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, energy and electricity. It consists of three parts and it is important in the first part to stress that Article 17 provides that the movement of excise duty products in the suspension system of excise duty is permitted only with the accompanying excise document and that the movement of excise duty products with paid excise duties between Member States is permitted with a simplified accompanying excise document. The draft law very clearly prescribes and the right to... the excise duty paid, is very clear in which cases, in the light of the purpose of the excise duty, are not returned to excise products, the general conditions for the operation of excise warehouses and the specific documentation to be carried out by the excise undertaking are prescribed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd just like to highlight a few of the important specifics of this law. The fact that non-alcoholic beer is no longer taxable, because beer is considered only the beer with which alcohol exceeds 0.5%, that the excise duty on wine remains 0 kuna, that now the alcoholic beverages contained, so far there were more than 2% alcohol, but according to the legal gain of the European Union, only those containing more than 1.2% alcohol in the future. Similarly, Directives do not allow for any release of the production of ethyl alcohol for their own purposes. As for tobacco products, counterpart Jelash stressed here that perhaps because of the introduction of excise duties, there might be an increase in prices and that this would affect the consumer, on the buyer. They are arranged in such a way that the specific excise duty cannot be less than 5% or greater than 55% of the total amount of burden. But I would also point out that tobacco not producers, but tobacco producers can keep the sale price regardless of excise duties or tax hikes because there is room to reduce their costs and costs, as well as a reduction of profits which is enormous all these years from the independence of the Republic of Croatia to this day. This bill stipulates that the specific excise duty on cigarettes is 180 kuna for a thousand pieces and 30% proportional to the retail price. It is known that so far gas consumption and air gasoline have been paid 0 kuna, i.e. it has not been, however, now the fuel consumption is being introduced only in those cases where the means of transport are used for private purposes. By reading in more detail this Proposed Taxation Act, it is noted in Article 10(7) that it stands, quotes like this: "instead of the accompanying excise document and the simplified excise document, a commercial document can be used. The term commercial document is quite general, so I would like to ask the applicant to reconsider a little further on the very definition of this commercial document, i.e. to specify more precisely which documents can replace the accompanying excise documents. I suppose that's what you're thinking about the invoice or the dispatch or the freight sheet, but it's still more precisely defined not to have such generally commercial documents because there's no such concept in regular business. The HDZ club supports this bill and will vote in favour of the Excise Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34775	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34776	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. In the Republic of Croatia, we are currently taxing almost all the subject matter of taxation prescribed by Directive 92/12, but we do not have excise warehouses or a system of suspension of the payment of excise duties and it is not prescribed that the obligation to charge and pay excise duty comes from the release of excise goods. The European Commission's report following the screening for Chapter 16 found that the Republic of Croatia must achieve more significant results with regard to the harmonisation of its excise legislation with the acquis of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia also taxes other products with excise duties, such as non-alcoholic beverages, luxury products, coffee and personal cars, motorcycles, vessels and aircraft that do not belong to the harmonised system of excise products in the European Union. Taxation of these products and upon entry into the European Union may be made for the Republic of Croatia subject to the conditions for the provisions and enforcement of those regulations not to interfere with the free movement of trade between Member States. This bill does not cover non-harmonised excise duties. The law proposed seeks to regulate most of the basic issues of the harmonised excise system which are covered by the Member States of the European Union. The draft law is divided, as already mentioned in three parts. The first part refers to general provisions on the holding, movement and supervision of excise products. The second part refers to certain excise products, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and energy. The third part applies to criminal, procedural and transitional and final provisions. The adoption of the proposed law, the business of economic operators within the excise system will take place in a new way, which will result in the introduction of continuous monitoring and supervision of all registered entities that are obliged in a prescribed manner to deal with excise products, which is a basic prerequisite for entering the free market of the European Union. The movement of excise products without payment of excise duty will be ensured, both within the Republic of Croatia and between Member States, subject to compliance with the prescribed conditions. Excise bonds, which have the status of authorised holder of the excise warehouse and have a excise warehouse, will be delayed until the time of delivery of excise products for final consumption, i.e. by delivery to the person not authorised to receive excise products in the suspension system. The production, processing and storage in the excise duty suspension system will take place in excise warehouses with prior authorisation of the competent customs office. For the production and movement of excise products in the suspension system, it is mandatory to lay down an instrument for the insurance of excise duty, which will improve the efficiency of the collection. The registers of excise taxpayers and the special register of authorised holders of excise warehouses, including excise warehouses of registered and occasionally registered recipients, will be established and necessary to enable the exchange of data with the competent authorities of other Member States. In the area of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, different divisions of taxation items will be introduced where new categories of alcoholic beverages are introduced. In addition, small producers of strong alcoholic beverages that produce for personal use become excise bonds and pay excise duties depending on the volume of the boiler, resulting in a higher number of excise duties. In this section, it should be mentioned that there is tax discharge. First of all, in the producer of strong alcoholic beverages for 10% on average and non-alcoholic beer because beer is considered to be the only one that has more than 0.5% of the volume of alcohol. Wine will continue to be released from excise duty. Under the proposal for a new excise duty law, the release of excise duty in the production of brandy from its own use is abolished. Thus, the excise duty for a boiler of 40 to 100 litres will be 100 kuna, and for a boiler of over 100 litres, 200 kuna. Additional excise duty will be paid for more than 50 liters of rakija produced. Small producers will have to register with the relevant customs offices and register with the excise taxpayers. If they don't, there's a possibility of fishing the boiler. That is why, of course, penalties are provided for if the seal is removed and will range from a thousand to 50 thousand kuna. Tobacco products have been detailed in detail in previous discussions. And the secretary of state made it very precise, so I won't say it again. So we're going to have a larger number of tax cases and there are a number of excise taxpayers in the field of energy and electricity. The most significant change in the introduction of excise duties on natural gas, electricity, solid fuel, oil and coke which will not be applied until the day of entry into the European Union. The cost of electricity in the European Union by 1 January 2010 is 0.5 euros per megawatt hour and will be twice as high from 1 January and will be as already mentioned one euro per megawatt hour. An institute of freed users is introduced, which will result in better supervision of certain exemptions from excise duty, as it will not be able to operate with the release only if the authorisation of the customs office is previously obtained. I would also mention that the implementation of this law would require no additional funding by implementing this law because, in the 2009 State budget, some 4 million 880 thousand kunas are planned for the construction of an applicative Sofver and for the professional training and training of customs administration staff to work in excise duties and to monitor the application of new provisions of this law. Since we are aware that the application of this law will also bring about some positive shifts, and this is also done with compliance with the European Union's gains, the Croatian People's Party's Representatives Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34777	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34778	We move to 11th point, the final proposal of the Excise Act was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 366, the legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Committee and did not vote on it because it became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Excise Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The final draft of the Taxation Act was adopted by the majority of votes, 100 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34779	Let's move on to the agenda and now it's time to move on to point 16. It's - Final bill on amendments and additions to the gas market law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 381 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Economic Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Leo Begovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34780	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The basic reasons for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the gas market law stems from the need to comply with the new Law on concessions entered into force on 1 January 2009. The law will also allow for the completion of the restructuring of the gas sector, by extracting parts from the gas business from INA d.d. The law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act will establish a uniform, efficient, transparent and non-discriminatory legal framework for concessions in gas distribution in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act shall achieve the following objectives. The new Law on concessions is implemented, the obligation to obtain opinions, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency on a five-year plan to develop a network of production pipelines, transport system, distribution system, gas storage system and natural gas storage terminals. It should be noted that the provisions of the law delete the company "INA oil industry" d.d. Zagreb as a uniquely defined gas supplier, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines the gas supplier for the suppliers of tariff customers in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the obligation to supply data in accordance with the natural gas security regulation and criminal provisions for non-execution of that obligation shall be laid down. Since most of the law is provisions on a concession for gas distribution, we would like to mention the following. The concession for the distribution of gas is a concession for public works, i.e. a concession for public services within the meaning of the Law on concessions. For the area or part of the unit area of the regional self-government where there is a distribution system, the competent authority shall, on behalf of the unit of the area or regional self-government, grant a concession for the distribution of gas or concession for the construction and distribution of the system. In the case where there is no distribution system, the competent authority of the unit of the regional self-government on behalf of the unit of the regional self-government shall grant a concession for the construction of a distribution system, or a concession for public works. A significant newspaper is the connection of the concession system with the area of construction, and with the preparatory actions to grant concessions within the meaning of this law, it is also considered to be the establishment of a local permit for high pressure distribution gas pipeline from the point of accession to the transport system including the connection to reduction stations if the construction takes place. When setting the most favourable offer, the choice is used on the basis of the most economically favourable offer. The majority of the provisions previously covered by the concession area shall be deleted since they have been settled in the concession law to which this law is based. We also accept the amendments submitted by the Committee on Economy all of these are the reasons for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34781	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34782	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act with the Final Bill is here today on our benches and came by emergency procedure in this debate. I, as far as I can remember, an emergency procedure is if it is brought into line with European legislation and if some of the conditions of our Rules of Procedure are met, which is an emergency procedure. Obviously, in the way we're missing out on the urgency process, it seems to me that this business provision of ours, but also some procedure we put aside, and then I apologize to us for the weight of that word, something that I would call sloppyness or non-cooperation leads us to put something under emergency procedure, even though it's not really an emergency procedure, because the explanation of why it's an emergency procedure and then we raised our hand says it's a need for full compliance with the new concession law, it has nothing to do with the emergency procedure, the need to comply with the emerging economic conditions. Nowhere in this proposal does the law say what new economic conditions are and then man comes specifically to ask what is really an emergency procedure. But if it was read or accepted the argument that it was because it was necessary to comply with the concession law then I would read a part of what you read in the opening statement myself. So I'll just say that the assessment of the situation and, in an explanation, remind my colleagues and colleagues that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act came out in "The People's Newspaper" No. 152/08. That was somewhere, we didn't see much of each other when we discussed the law. And if the law on amendments to the Law on concessions where we are now harmonising the Law on concessions came out in "The People's Newspaper" No. 125/08. and entered into force on 1 January. These numbers may not speak well, but 125 is before 152. So when we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act, we knew that there was already a Law on concessions that should have been passed then if you had to and I think that this law should have been harmonised. But obviously, I don't know if the same ministry brings each other. Well, maybe even through this kind of emergency procedure, there's an unnecessary attempt to cover something that I don't think is a lack of cooperation, a lack of understanding that everyone's doing the woods or the road and that they're basically this way, then there's us, I'm not saying that we're not going to bear it, but that you're putting us in some position that something that we brought in a very little time ago we realized that we didn't, that we left some of it out, and it has nothing to do with the legislation of the European Union. So that's our sloppyness, ours I'd say disorganization that one so let's say a law that would then be quite important and that needed in this way just degrade it. Well, since we've done it like that, here I apologize again, I feel like we've made a little bit of a mistake again, because then we kind of just kind of hacked that concession law into this gas market law that we're bringing in by emergency procedure. I say again, we can't bring it into an emergency procedure because in my opinion it's a total non-communication of people who do something better for Europe, totally non-communication, and I agree that this is even worse than that of the Insurance Act because at least it had such an argument that it is in line with European legislation. This one's already in sync, we've forgotten something, now we're just signing it, and then we're getting a law that's going to be very hard to implement. I'll just say something that if it is true that only the reason for the concession law is to supplement it then 1, 2, 3, 4, and some other articles do not speak about the concession. So we forgot something else about harmonisation because it is mentioned in Article 2 of the balance sheet group that we have already defined that we have brought them into line with European legislation but they are re-remembered so I will not talk about it much. But tell me, this article 4 says that Article 9.b of point 2 changes and says: "To establish and ensure the exchange of information with the transport system operator, the heads of the balance sheet groups". So it's not about the concession, but let's go read it all the way. "on the organisation of the natural gas market with general conditions for natural gas supply and network rules of the transport system.". All five. I think it's very precise what was meant by that. But then, unfortunately, we have an explanation for this. Well, Article 4 is explained like this. The article prescribes relations between energy entities and links with sublegal acts. Now, how can these energy entities be linked to sublegal acts? If that's an explanation of what I read earlier then and when you explained it then you further complicated because the energy subject cannot be associated with the sublaws. How can it be connected? I mean, either the Croatian I don't speak well or we don't understand each other, but obviously something's wrong. So, because we violated the procedure, Mr. Vice President, so we voted by force that it was an emergency procedure, which should not be an emergency procedure because we are sloppyness, non-communication between the two departments that are doing something, we are in a position to discuss here a law that should not have come here in this way by emergency procedure. So we will disabling those with an emergency procedure so it will all be an emergency procedure and then it leads to the suspension of some kind of democracy and democratic behavior in this House that I have been proud of so far, but it is obvious that this democracy will not be expressed to us very much. And now, let's see what that changes in concessions when we put concessions inside. We said this, that in Article 12, here I am asking you to do a little, maybe I didn't understand it or read it, but here it says what are the criteria for selecting the most favourable offers, it was in Article 19, then it is changing and it is now as it is said, and then it is listed ten and then in the criteria for the awarding of the distribution system for the additional ten criteria as it comes to select the most favourable offer. In my court, the most favourable offer for the concession of gas distribution and how it was somehow understood before that should be essentially the one that is the most realistic, which gives professionally convincing evidence of the readiness and ability to realise a project that documents experience and status in the distribution activities and the ability to finance the project. However, Article 19(2) and paragraph 2 states that, paragraph 2: the level of concession fee is laid down by the Regulation on the level and method of payment of the concession for gas distribution, for the construction of the distribution system, is one of the criteria. I do not understand how the level of concession fee can be measured by the choice of concessionaires, if it is already determined and prescribed by the government's regulation. If the amount of such a prescribed fee will be a function of distribution of the amount of gas then the differences between bids could be due to different estimates of future gas consumption in the concentrated distribution area, which is actually an invitation to exaggeration, not to say another, rougher word. I don't know what you meant by that. If that's it, let's wipe out here because the government determines, the government's regulation determines the amount of compensation. It shouldn't be a criterion because then there's an opportunity to interpret it anyway and then there can be manipulation. I'd be willing to get rid of it. This Regulation shall enter Look, in Article 13, I say again, unfortunately we're bringing something within the legal framework, but we didn't do anything else to make it that way. Article 13 is replaced by the following: This paragraph is replaced by the following: But when we passed that law we said and then give when those rules will be. Now we're calling again for concessions, but there's no rules. It is lawfully determined whether this must be the case and the regulations of these six months seem to me from debate or a little less, but that rule still does not exist and it is subject to legal provisions, to something that is not there. I don't think we should, or we should bring him in, and then we can call on him or if he's not there, we shouldn't call on him, so when the time comes, then we'll call on him in some way. This Regulation shall enter I'll read it. It shall relate to the concession fee where paragraph 1 states that the concessionaire is required to pay the concession fee in the amount and in the manner arranged by the concession agreement. It's standing. Article 2 is amended as follows: While paragraph 3 provides that a concessionary who has not carried out an energy activity means a more recent distribution of gas in the area for which the concession is granted, a cash concession fee shall be determined as a variable amount of the planned revenue according to the offer which is an integral part of the concession contract for the year in which the gas distribution activity begins. Article 4 of the same article provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry, which obtained the opinion of the Agency, determines the amount and method of payment of the concession fee for the distribution of gas and concessions for the construction of the distribution system. Now try to tell me, maybe I read it poorly, how from those provisions, is it clear to you who and how they will determine the amount of concession fee. I don't know if we're going to bring in a rulebook or an explanation of how we're going to do it, and who's going to determine when this is a jumbled article that makes up this fee for a concession of notes is governed by the Regulation on the level of the method of payment. Of course, the concession is not called by the government but rather by the unit of local self-government or self-government. The amount of compensation will be determined by a regulation. I think this way, simply by stapled, there is no Croatian word, this concessioning into this law that has not been done much. And please, here's just a little more. Article 21, good, okay. The Government of the Republic of Croatia determines gas suppliers for tariff customers in the Republic of Croatia. I think it might be, except for this general, it would be good for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to designate a new gas supplier for the supplier of tariffs and it would also be logical to define the status of existing contracts because they exist on supply with the supplier so far, and we know that it was INA d.d. Finally, in article 25, behind the words of the transport system operator, you received the words of the distribution system operator. That's what we were making last time, you didn't accept. In what cases, we wanted to know, the gas dealer can or should use the distribution system operator's services. If a trader can be a supplier's contractual partner who uses gas distribution services and regulates this relationship through a gas distribution contract on behalf of and for the account of the final buyer, but the trader himself uses the distribution system. I think that should explain it a little bit, and that these unsettled laws shouldn't come by emergency procedure. For God's sake, we could've done it thoroughly and then there'd be less debate. And in the end...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34783	Thank you! Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34784	It all comes down to payment, but if the government will determine all who will deal with it just... What kind of market is that and why is it that one-off investment in the gas pipelines to Dalmatia if it's really... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34785	Thank you! On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34786	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. The law amending and supplementing the law on the gas market, unlike the predecessors, would say what the law does, rather than what is not regulated, or what is clear in these amendments. Of course, the Croatian Democratic Community club, respecting these four areas that are definitely improving these amendments to the law, will support this amendment to the law. Namely, the first is to comply with the new Law on concessions. The urgency is normal in a situation where we know that, in the meantime, the Law on concessions has been passed and that many things have been arranged differently than before, and that is how unification is established. A clear procedure non-discriminatory and ultimately effective. The procedure for granting a concession for gas distribution is the legal protection of dissatisfied participants also being introduced. It is also indirectly introduced through the Law on concessions into this area and the application of the Public Procurement Act and, of course, the most favourable offer rule. The second we can see that there is a mandatory acquisition and opinion of HERA. This is a very important provision. Before granting approval by the Ministry, the energy entities should give their development plans an opinion, and that is precisely why the HERA, which later approves the tariff in the tariff system, and the final price, should also be able to control which costs are justified, i.e. the costs that have not been invested in the security of supply. Therefore, both sides would be prevented by uneconomic investment. The plans could also prevent megalomania, could prevent the construction of unnecessary facilities, but on the other hand the construction of those facilities that are necessary for the safe supply of gas could also be ensured. I primarily mean warehouses and other auxiliary facilities that are necessary for safe gas supply. One of the less noticeable provisions is to delete only the names of the designated INA as the supplier for the public service obligation holder. Therefore, not for full supply, supply but only for public service obligations holders, i.e. broad consumption, or those who opted to stay in the old system. According to that provision introduced by this law in the future, this would be determined by a supplier of not an INA by name, but by a supplier who did so on July 31st. At the same time, however, the government's authority is also being transferred and it is being given the opportunity to regulate this supplier, which depends on the security of supply of large-scale consumption until 31 July 2013 with the Government's decision. The obligation to supply data shall be prescribed in accordance with the Regulation on the security of natural gas supply and penalties for non-execution and obligations. This today, when there are 25 degrees in the plus doesn't seem to be an important provision, but when it's out 16 and 20 below then it realizes how important it was in the situation in which we found ourselves last year that every energy subject clearly plans to deliver his data, not to cheat on each other, not to supply false data, not to close down consumers who were not supposed to close down, and all because he doesn't supply accurate data. Now this law also introduces a penalty for failing to supply these exact data because one who has to take care of the balance of the gas system must at any moment know how many consumers which categories need gas at which temperature. So this introduces one discipline and I can say that it is the part where we could say that we are talking about economic conditions that we can safely say that it is one of the economic conditions. In fact, operators engaged in energy activities are actually given one order, and on the other hand consumers get security in gas supply. As for these previous findings on the level of concession fees as prescribed there. One of the criteria and what determines the height determines the government. However, the answer to this question is that this is prescribed by the concession law as a mandatory component of a decision or contract of a concession deal, and it is logical and ultimately in line with the law that this is listed even though the Government will determine that amount. Finally, according to this text, the Proposer indicated that, in accordance with the other laws we have recently passed and in this law, the authorities of the regional self-government that will make, or bodies that will make decisions are specified. So in relation to what the law defines as a competent authority, a representative body should now be prescribed. Therefore, the representative body will be the one who will initiate the procedure and will ultimately decide on a concessionary for this important area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34787	Thank you. And we have one individual application, honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34788	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the promoters, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. In the debate, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act with the Final Proposal for a Law proposing to amend and supplement the 2007 Gas Market Act, which has already been amended and supplemented in 2008. This time, the reasons for the adoption of amendments and complementing the need for full compliance with the new Law on concessions in order to establish a unique, transparent and effective legal framework for the award and receipt of a concession for gas distribution in the Republic of Croatia. In 2001, a reform of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia began by adopting a package of energy laws, including the first version of the gas market law. Since then, and until this proposal for legislative amendments and additions, amendments and additions of the legal framework with a purpose have been made to adapt to the standards of the organisation of the internal European market for those energy activities that are marketable, compliant with the regulated conditions and rules for those energy activities being carried out as public services. The proposed amendments and additions other than compliance with the Law on concessions also introduce the obligation to obtain the opinion of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency on a five-year plan for the development of a network of production pipelines, transport system, distribution system, gas storage system and natural gas storage terminals. It also liberalises the activity of gas supply as it is deleted from the law in Article 38(1) to date by the law of a specific supplier, the INA oil industry d.d. and a provision is introduced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines the gas supplier for the suppliers of tariff customers in the Republic of Croatia, and until then the holder of the mandatory public service will be the one who performed the function on 31 July 2008 and the Government will decide for the period when it is adopted by 31 July 2013. It shall also be prescribed to provide data in accordance with the natural gas security regulation and penalties for non-compliance with that obligation. The law obliges energy operators, transport system operators, balance sheet managers, gas suppliers and gas traders to establish and exchange information in accordance with the Regulation on the organisation of the natural gas market, general conditions for the supply of natural gas on the network rules of the transport system. A clear distinction has been established between the distribution of gas and the construction of a distribution system within the meaning of the Law on concessions. The concession for gas distribution is a concession for public services, and the concession for the construction of the distribution system is a concession for public works and it is prescribed that for the area of regional self-government where there is a distribution system, the competent authority shall grant a concession for gas distribution if the value of this service is dominant and the concession for construction if the value of public works is greater than the value of the public service. Where there is no such thing as a concession for construction. The competent authorities of the regional self-government must carry out preparatory actions and procedures prior to the award of the concession, which are prescribed by the Law on concessions and documents, in addition to the preparatory actions prescribed by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Getting a location permit for high pressure distribution gas from the point of connection to the transport system to the reduction cells. The competent authority of the regional self-government shall be obliged to publish the concession in the National Journal with the deadlines and place of receipt of the prescribed documentation, which shall be the beginning of the concession procedure. The law also adopts detailed criteria for selecting the most favourable offer. The fee was determined as a variable amount of the concessionor’s income achieved by carrying out the energy activity of the gas distribution in the previous year in the area for which the concession is granted. For those who have not carried out that activity in the previous years, they shall be determined on the basis of the planned revenue. The concession fees are the budgets of the units of the regional self-government, and the level and manner of payment is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Regulation on the level and manner of payment of concession fees, for the distribution of gas and concessions for the construction of the distribution system that it brings to the proposal of the Ministry with the Agency's opinion obtained. Concession is given for a period of at least 20 years and not more than 30 years. The contracts concluded so far with the units of local self-government remain in force, except as regards the time limit and the compensation that is in line with this bill. All of these represent a legal framework that will strengthen and open up the gas market and improve the system of this energy activity and I will therefore support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34789	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34790	12., Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the gas market, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 381. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Economic Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Committee and did not vote on it because it became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The law was passed by a majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 26 against, together with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34791	And we're going to process one more point, which is - the final proposal of the Customs Service Act, the second reading, P.Z. No. 242 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So, just for a little while, since this law has already been given the opportunity and opportunity to discuss it here. Therefore, this law regulates the establishment and part-time management of customs services, powers, responsibilities of customs officials and specialities in the labour and material rights of customs officials and disciplinary trial. The reasons for the adoption of the proposed law on the one hand is the further harmonisation of Croatian legislation and customs system and the position of customs service as a whole with the customs system of the European Union and, on the other hand, what we said at 1st reading, so it will certainly contribute to a more effective operation of the customs service, a clear determination of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of customs officials. What it wants to achieve is to combat crime, all forms of smuggling and organised crime, terrorism, money laundering and the grey economy more effectively. In addition, preventing the abuse of the financial system in the Republic of Croatia in order to avoid customs control measures as well as protecting the integrity of the state border, speeding up the flow of goods, while not jeopardising the security elements, increasing the powers of customs officials and ensuring material rights and better working conditions for the work of authorised customs officers, in order to increase the authority, or endangering their lives. Also, let me say that this Final Proposal for a Customs Service Act is not more important than the draft law that we have originally discussed, but many normative, linguistic and stylish improvements have already been introduced. In addition, all comments and proposals shall be made to the text of the Proposal for a Customs Service Act at the meetings of the Croatian Labour Authorities and to the debate on the draft law held at the eighth session of 13 February 2009 and have been considered and taken into account when drawing up the final draft law. And finally, this one amendment that we have from the Legislative Committee is acceptable, the government accepts it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34793	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. We have several reports. First is the club of HDZ MPs, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34794	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here's what we heard from the secretary of state, dr. Maric said this is just a small change in improvement, this is a final proposal compared to the previous proposal in, improvements in style grooming, language and normative improvements. We have already spent enough time discussing this Customs Service Act proposal, but I would only point out the importance of customs services within the European Union, stressing that not only is it in the collection of revenue but also as an important factor in countering the crime of the gray economy, organised crime, terrorism and the like. I would point out one note, which is that it was particularly concerned about those remote officials, moved more than 80 kilometers from the place of residence, and this is clearly highlighted in article 53 of all the benefits that these officials have, however, in the event of a transfer. A number of benefits are both monetary and leisure days and the use of annual holidays and the like. It is also important to provide for continuous training and professional training of all employees. This is one newspaper that will ensure a safer quality customs service and customs supervision throughout the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of this Customs Service Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34795	Thank you. And we still have one to discuss. On behalf of the SDP club, Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34796	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since we are in the second reading of this legislative proposal and mostly the secretary of state has repeated what is most important, I will just remind myself of some other things that I think are also important. So a significant step through this law regarding the harmonisation of the customs system, the Croatian customs system with the customs system of the European Union. It was designed to improve the work of customs services through clearer determination of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of customs officers, and they are of course the most important factor in the efficiency of the entire customs system. In fact, customs services within the European Union do not only have a fiscal task. We have heard this a little bit, so the task of collecting customs revenues and filling the state budget already has a very important security task that involves curbing all forms of smuggling, organised crime, terrorism, money laundering and the grey economy. It has the task to protect the integrity of the state border, to protect human health and safety, to protect product safety, to protect intellectual property, to protect cultural goods, to protect plant and animal species, and to control the transport of dual-use goods. It also has the task of speeding up the flow of goods without jeopardising the abovementioned security elements. And precisely because of the more effective achievement of all the tasks listed, it was necessary to regulate in more detail the special powers of customs officers, such as carrying arms and using the means of coercion. The procedure of customs controls, such as the suspension of means of transport in the entire customs territory of the Republic of Croatia, is all with a view to a more effective fight against customs fraud and smuggling. Also for the sake of faster and more efficient implementation of customs procedures, which is precisely in the function of speeding up the flow of goods, this legislative proposal has given much broader powers to customs officials with medium-sized expertise, and this is clearly one of the fire measures conditioned by the lack of personnel of more professional equipment, and time on the ground will actually show how good this measure is. One of the harmonisation elements in the law is the possibility for customs administration officers to participate in customs duties abroad, either at the invitation of international organisations or on the basis of obligations under international contracts, the principle of reciprocity is clearly attached to this possibility, so that the customs officials of other countries can also participate in the performance of customs duties in our country. These draft laws prescribe certain specificities in the rights and obligations and responsibilities of authorised customs officers, in relation to other civil servants, particularly relating to the admission to customs service, to the transfer to another post, to the exercise of internal control and control, and in particular to the violation of official duties and the conduct of disciplinary proceedings for such needs. On the other hand, due to the nature of the job and the special working conditions, an extended range of benefits for authorised customs officers compared to other civil servants, from benefits related to temporary transfer to another post more than 80 km away from the existing workplace, through rewards and recognitions, cash aids in accordance with needs and of course available budgets, until recognition of the insurance standings in the increased duration. And let me just get this straight. Therefore, the SDP Representatives Club supported this law in the first reading, which was in February of this year, and since some of our comments were then made in this final proposal, I am above all referring to the comment on the chapter on the collection, recording, processing and protection of the data in which the replacement of the citizens' home numbers was proposed by a personal identification number, and that the entire legal text was normally and unambiguously improved. Now we have reason to support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34797	Thank you. No more reports. Some of them were, so they took away. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions. That concludes today's workday. Tomorrow we start at 9:30 with the agenda Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on special conditions for placing flour on the market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 385. Thank you for today and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-01-0.u34798	13, Final proposal of the Customs Service Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 242, the draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Committee and did not vote on it in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Customs Service Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The final proposal of the Customs Service Act was accepted by the majority of votes, 101 votes for, 1 abstention and 2 against, together with the amendment adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the session and move on to - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on special conditions for placing flour on the market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 385 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal to discuss this legislative proposal in an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture Mr. Stjepan Mikolčić. Here you go.
